ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e42	Honourable co-representatives! Former P.A. Martin Magnus Skaaren is dead, almost 94 years old. Skaaren was born on 30 April 1905 in Sør-Trøndelag. Already in 1920 he began as an active fisherman. In addition, he ran the small farm Skåren, where he lived his whole life. Martin Skaaren came early into municipal policy as a representative of the Right. Already in 1931 he became a member of the school board. From 1935 he was a member of Kvenvær municipal government and chairmanship. He had continued these jobs until 1961. He was appointed rapporteur on the liberation in 1945 and was later elected rapporteur in the years 1946-61. In addition, Martin Skaaren had a wide range of municipal, county and other public offices. He was politically active far into the retirement life. In the 1961 election, Martin Skaaren was elected as the Grand Ring of the Right from the South-Trondelag. He was re-elected in 1965, but in 1969 he made re-elections despite the fact that everything was at the ready for renomination without a counter-candidate. At Stortinget, Martin Skaaren was always a member of the municipal committee – a committee that was created for a person with such a long experience in municipal politics. He was, of course, particularly concerned with issues related to the interests of the outlying regions — and especially of the coastal population. In the 1960s, the discussion of municipal associations was a major issue in Stortinget. Martin Skaaren was later very pleased that, as spokesman for the minority in the municipal committee, he was able to obtain a majority to retain Ørland, Bjugn and Rindal as independent municipalities. He was also a strong champion for a rapid expansion of the electricity supply in the outlying districts. Martin Skaaren did not look forward to personal PR, but he was genuinely concerned about being an ombudsman for his county and for the inhabitants of the South-Tronde Team. Over his eight years at Stortinget, he worked successfully to deal with difficult matters for municipalities and individuals, not least for the departments. Martin Skaaren was a good-willed man, little concerned with getting political points, but the more focused on finding practical solutions to things. He had friends in Stortinget across all party lines and enjoyed great respect for his work as a good ambassador for his constituency. We remember Martin Skaaren and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e59	The representatives of Ulf Erik Knudsen, Øystein Djupedal and Dag Terje Andersen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative of Torstein Rudihagen from 16 February onwards and until further notice from the Christian People's Party Group on sick leave for the representative Anne Britt Stråtvei from 16 February onwards and until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave:For the West Agder County: Sigmund KroslidFor Uppland County: Kjell Ivar Fossnes3. Sigmund Kroslid and Kjell Ivar Fossnes are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Anne Britt Stråtveit and Torstein Rudihagen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e106	Sigmund Kroslid and Kjell Ivar Fossnes are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e111	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e116	I suggest Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e121	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is unanimously elected President of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e130	The representative Annelise Höegh will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e133	On behalf of Per-Kristian Foss and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a change to the Swedish Securities Fund Act to allow the creation of non-profit mutual funds.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e138	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e150	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e161	The size of the population treated results and experience with the two previous disability action plans less than a year ago. The Committee welcomes this presentation of the Action Plan as a key message and feels that the current action plan provides a good analysis and description of the current situation for people with disabilities. The two earlier periods of disability action plans have been of great importance in making the living conditions of people with disabilities visible. These two planning periods have provided a good basis for the present plan and for the Committee's work on it. Let me stress that even when dealing with issues related to the disabled, I have experienced a great deal of commitment from all parties to find good solutions to the big problems ahead of us. The present setting bears the hallmark of broad agreement on the main features of the plan. The action plan contains four areas of activity: accessible community planning and user participation rights of disabled people for professional activities for disabled persons In consultations with disabled people's organisations, I have also been given a clear impression that this is in line with what they see as the most important areas of activity. Let me stress that these four main areas have a very large content. That's just as likely to be the last reason to remember that we still have a long way to go before we reach the goals set here. A great deal of effort must be made in time to ensure sufficient resources for the plan to be implemented in line with the promises that exist here. The aim of this effort must be to develop well-organised systems in society for all, so as to minimise the need for individual organisation. In cases where special arrangements are necessary, this must be established in close cooperation with the individual disabled person himself, in such a way as to maximise independence and contribute to better quality of life. This is the full agreement on this in the Committee, and I think we are doing well to achieve these objectives. Let me also stress that without the constructive and transparent input of disabled people's organisations, this work had become much more difficult. Organisations have a high level of knowledge and understanding of opportunities and challenges. This information has been very useful to the Committee. The Committee welcomes the fact that user involvement has been promoted to such an extent as a fundamental principle. Disability should, like others, participate in the design of the society in which we all live. People with disabilities should have the same opportunities, rights and obligations in society as everyone else. The Committee considers it important to remove obstacles to participation either in transport, education, leisure, culture, job market, information or accessibility to buildings and structures. Physical availability requirements for buildings must apply to both private and public activities. Legislation is a good instrument for achieving the objective of physical accessibility and the possibility of granting exemptions from such provisions must be limited. It is positive that a new updated action plan for accessibility in state-owned buildings is being developed, but it is important that this plan also covers the many buildings where the country is a tenant and which provide important services to the public. In an accessible society, it must also be natural for people with disabilities to have the possibility of organisational and political participation, and of course it must be possible for disabled people to be eligible to participate in local governments, county councils and the Grand Duchy. My claim is that this possibility is still not as clear as it should be. This applies not only to municipalities and counties, but also here in Stortinget. It is a well-known case that parts of the large-scale building – the main hall, the president's seat and this pulpit – do not have the necessary level of accessibility. This is undoubtedly an obstacle to disabled people being able to choose to the Storing. A society in which groups of the population are prevented from participating in democratically elected bodies is not an accessible society. Therefore, an overall committee considers that an examination of how the large-scale building can be made available to disabled persons in its entirety needs to be carried out. Organised transport is also a very important measure to make society more accessible. There are significant differences in the range of offers made and reductions in the offer are reported for the current year. This is a development that is not in line with the objective of improved accessibility. On the part of the Workers' Party, we proposed to assess the introduction of guidelines on quality and quantity in the case of special transport, but this proposal was supported only by the Socialist Left Party in the Committee. Better accessibility is also most necessary for people with hidden disabilities. I think here of people with mental disorders, those who have difficulty reading and writing, those who have asthma and allergies and many, many more. For these too, there are too many obstacles to education, work, leisure, etc. It is worrying that people with hidden disabilities also fall out with regard to the provision of secondary education. These are matters which will quickly also have a negative impact on future career choices and participation in working life and social community. Such conditions need to be strongly focused in the follow-up to the action plan. Let me also say something about the proposal that concerns Petø. The Petø method, or conductive training, is a comprehensive training system that primarily has children with brain damage as a target group. The method originates in Hungary, and many from Norway have travelled there to get this offer to their children. The results of this overall training and treatment have been spectacular. Over several years, projects have been carried out in several places in the country where professionals from Hungary have assisted. With the good results this has given, I think it is time to move on with the measures. I am pleased that a majority in the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right, are united on a proposal that makes this possible. Finally, let me say that I am pleased that the action plan has a point of Norwegian assistance in relation to people with disabilities, and that an overall committee has joined this. In the poor parts of the world, disabled people are the poorest of the poor. This is something we cannot overlook in our work for disabled people. I will deal with the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e221	Bendiks H. Arnesen has taken up the suggestion to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e224	St.meld. No 8 includes four areas of activity for people with disabilities up to 2001: an inclusive and accessible society for people with disabilities. More and more user involvement in this care is to be used, which is very positive. The rights of disabled persons shall be strengthened and extended and the conditions for professional activity of disabled persons better facilitated. The present position is largely unanimous on the part of the Committee, which means that there is a cross-political consensus on improving the overall situation of people with disabilities in society. On behalf of my party, I would like to stress in particular the need for an equal and sufficient annual resource availability that allows the various proposals to be implemented during the planning period. I am well pleased with the extra investment in the resources allocated to it in the 1999 budget, an increase compared to the previous year of 66 million. kr. In the present position, the Progress Party underlines in its comments the large number of elderly people who become disabled in the context of Alzheimer’s disease, which preferably affects people between 60 and 75 years of age. This disease causes rapid and severe disability with loss of quality of life, and these people become very quickly institutionalised. The whole 70 pst. of patients in Norwegian nursing homes are senil demente. A new drug now on the market, Aricept, can maintain good quality of life in the early stages of Alzheimer’s and postpone institutional care from one to two years. I would therefore very much regret that the Rikstrøgdeverket has so far not wanted to allow the medication to be prescribed on a blue prescription. There is a Document No. Eight proposals on this subject for consideration by the Social Committee, tabled by the Progressive Party. I would strongly recommend to the other parties in the committee to support this proposal, primarily on the basis of a human aspect, but there is also reason to believe that it would be sensible to be able to prescribe this drug on a blue prescription - above all, it is a principle of justice which the Progress Party believes must be taken into account to a large extent, so that not only the rich can obtain this drug, but also those who have a poor economy. The Party has intended and continues to believe that hearing aids must be treated in the same way as other technical aids and thus exempt from excess. I have never understood why there should be a difference in self-payment for example wheelchair users and hearing impaired people who need hearing aids. The Progress Party has put forward proposals to eliminate the excesses on hearing aids, and I am referring to this proposal in this context. I would like to say that I am pleased that the Department has called for closer cooperation between the Hearing Centres and the Hearing Offices operated by the organisations. I am also pleased that the department in the form of a circular request from our major hospitals to acquire portable text telephones for hearing impaired people. I believe that I have evidence to say that many clients are experiencing major problems with the return device. One of the reasons for this may, in my view, be that the medical recovery has become too short-lived, and that the professional reintroduction, on the other hand, is not professional and good enough, and that many people, for these reasons, meet the wall and end up as social clients or disabled persons. I find that the cooperation between the medical rehabilitation, the professional rehabilitation and the social security system is too poorly formalised. I think you could achieve big gains by co-localising these floors. I am very pleased that it was possible to obtain a majority in the Committee on the Workers' Party's proposal for the further development of the Petø method for this smaller group of patients, where experience has shown that parents have had to use considerable private resources to get a proper rehabilitation of these children.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e243	John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestion to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e246	As the rapporteur's statement shows, there is a great deal of political consensus in this matter. The strong commitment of the parties gives rise to the hope that disabled persons will achieve the objective of full participation and equality, which is the sub-title of the notification. The principle that society should not make us disabled seems to be a positive approach to the Christian People's Party. This will focus more on the lack of organisation of the environment, the environment and the barriers that a disabled person encounters in order to function optimally. If society is adequately organised, there is no need for harm or disease to become a handicap. However, if there is a lift, persons with reduced mobility may now have higher floors. If there are books with bitmaps, blind people can read. Computer equipment helps dyslexics, text phone helps deaf people, etc. Finally, improved availability of social security services in the country should be facilitated. It should be obvious that public offices can be visited by the users for which the service is established. An overall committee believes that the municipalities should not be so easily exempted from access requirements in new buildings. The Christian People's Party also supports the need for municipalities to require accessibility when concluding fixed-term contracts. We believe that all offices in which health and social workers practice should be accessible to people with reduced mobility and orientation. I was in the United States this fall, and I just have to admit that we are far behind in public organised public transport. Some municipalities have significantly reduced this transport offer. It may prevent disabled people from taking education and work. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the big message places great emphasis on so-called hidden disabilities. What is not so visible is often not understood and accepted. This applies to everything from asthma and diabetes to reading and writing difficulties. Deaf people are working to bring in a deaf interpreter on the television screen. The goal is to get the text programs automatically. A sign dictionary is to be developed, which I know the nursery staff will appreciate. A three-year project with sign language theatres becomes an exciting action. It will also be exciting to follow the use of care pay. NOVO has estimated that 100 000 people in this country have a heavy burden of care, while only 3 500 actually receive care. The scheme needs to be better known to those who need it. If user assistance and rights are to be of some value, it is essential that the disabled are aware of their rights. A CD-ROM shall be created, which will be a good information tool and provide better opportunities for cooperation, respect and understanding between the user and the person facilitating the local environment. The Christian People's Party believes it is good that the action plan is published in bitmaps, large prints, on audio cassettes and video with sign language. We also support that it be published in an easy-to-read short version and in English. It can facilitate assistance for those who are not yet adequately mastered in Norway. The availability of electoral material for the harvest to all becomes an important objective. There are two committee comments that the Christian People's Party has problems in supporting. Both are concerned with the degree to which the Storting should control detail. The first is about whether a particular drug should be included in the blue prescription scheme. The other is about a particular pedagogical/therapeutic offer, especially for children and young people with cerebral parasites. The experience is shared. Some people think it's on a collision course with the integration idea here in the country. Others claim that most children in pilot projects had motor success and became more independent, and not least satisfied with their parents. Parents will now evaluate this and other alternative treatments for brain-damaged children, together with a group set up by the Department. The Christian People's Party will await this report before we decide. There is no time to talk about personal assistants and the possibility of increased professional activity among people with disabilities. More flexible arrangements are needed. The combination of work and social security is good. The Christian People's Party supports that one can receive disability pension with a lower disability rate than 50 pst. Annual reports on the status of disabled persons shall be provided. I look forward to it and hope that we succeed in giving disabled people influence over their own lives, and that we are able to create a society that is good for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e272	On the right, the Bondevik government, unlike the Jagland government, is pleased to present the Action Plan for the disabled as a big message. The plan has now become a matter for the Stortinget, for all parties and for the entire political environment. The action plan presented is a good contribution to improving the situation, and I will give tribute to the rapporteur for a good and thorough work. The action plan provides a good description of the problems, opportunities and challenges that disabled people face in their everyday lives with the big society. However, there is no timetable for implementation, nor is there an overview of how to allocate the funds allocated. This is a weakness in the plan. All policies, including policies for people with disabilities, must be based on respect for the integrity of individuals and individuals. Disability is not a homogeneous group, they are as different as functional health. This recognition presents a major challenge. The starting point for the Right is the development of a well-organised society for all, so as to minimise the need for individual organisation. But still there are both physical and mental barriers to people that are slightly different, which differ from the majority. But the difference is not a handicap. If we are disabled in one context, we can be functional in other contexts. So that's the solution to the problems that are different, not the basic needs. Many people with disabilities are hampered in their way of life, more than what is necessary in relation to their disability, and this is because society has not provided enough room for manoeuvre in a number of areas. Society itself can in many cases act as a barrier. For this reason, a comprehensive policy is essential which promotes the functioning of the labour market. Accessibility must be universally available, so that disabled people become as self-employed as possible and have the possibility of active participation in society. It must also apply in political activities – in local governments, county councils and here in Stortinget. In particular, the availability of educational institutions is important. Equal rights to education must be a priority task. The youth of Norway's Handicap Association has made proposals for an IT training offer, including housing and services for highly disabled people at one of our colleges. This seems to be a positive proposal, and I refer to proposals from the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the SV, where we ask the Government to assess the establishment of such an offer added to the University of Hedmark, department of Rena. The information project ‘Society for All’ addresses local coordination, holistic thinking and user involvement. An information tool is produced that disabled persons and facilitators can use together to find good solutions that can best meet the needs of the individual. In this context, a CD-ROM is created to provide up-to-date information on user groups, laws, rights, facilities and local administration. This is a very positive measure to get a quick overview of the possibilities, so that the adaptation and organisation of the individual disabled person is simplified and speeded up. In the 1999 budget, the Government removed the proportion of digital hearing aids for children under 18 years of age. The right, together with the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre, is in favour of a proposal asking the Government to make an assessment of whether hearing aids can be considered as a technical aid and come under the same rules as other technical aids. Petø methodology measures have been implemented in several places in Norway and have provided a better situation of life for people with disabilities as well as their relatives. Not least, it has helped to increase accessibility in society. The right, together with the Labour Party, the Progress Party and SV, is in favour of a proposal asking the Government to launch actions to provide qualified personnel to ensure the further development of Petø methodology as an offer in the habilitation service, and to submit funding proposals. The system of personal assistants is too much crucial in relation to active participation in society on its own premises. Legislation of this scheme, combined with earmarked grants, will offer even more users. However, as this offer becomes well established and developed, a consideration should be given to the inclusion of the grant as part of the framework transfers to the municipalities, so that it becomes part of the ordinary offer. It must be obvious that anyone with a disability should have the same rights and obligations in relation to society as a disability. In order to create such an equality, there are many areas where there is a need for self-sufficiency and organisation. Having a job to go to is a fundamental right for everyone. Those who stay out of work have the worst living conditions. Facilitating adaptations and flexible solutions in the labour market will benefit individuals and society, and the Right is very pleased that labour and reintegration policies are included in the Action Plan. The working capacity of the disabled must be exploited on the basis of their own assumptions, and the Right believes that the provision of disability pension should be made at a lower disability rate than 50 pst. The combination of social security and work needs to be facilitated. In order to succeed, good cooperation between the various departments and actors and increased focus on the recruitment of people with disabilities is important in the public sector as well. In addition, further work is needed to facilitate the transition from school to work. Cooperation between the social security system and the labour market seat is still not working as well as we would like, and the ministry must speed up work on the co-location of social security, labour market and social security. Many people with disabilities experience major problems in re-entry. The government must pay particular attention to those who have failed in the professional reintroduction and who in many cases end up as social clients. An accessible society requires increased knowledge, knowledge and competence regarding the rights, needs and opportunities of people with disabilities. Therefore, good and mutual cooperation with disabled people and their organisations is essential for the organisation of a society for all. I want to pay tribute to the organisations of the disabled for the enormous effort and commitment they show. The areas of user involvement, rights, accessibility and professional activity are key areas of the action plan. The right supports the main objectives of the planning period that society must be designed in such a way as to equalise all its inhabitants and provide equal opportunities for all to rework and maintain an independent and social life. Furthermore, disability policy must lead to non-disabled public and private activities. The measures must be designed in such a way as to contribute to coordination and to the full. A third main objective must be user involvement. User involvement is a democratic right that is essential in order to provide a good quality of service provision. In the design of the main priorities and initiatives, it is particularly important that the organisation of disabled people is included in the plans of municipalities and counties, in sectoral plans at all levels and in the Planning and Building Act. On the right, the proposal from the FFO for the launch of a project to develop a model for user involvement in regional health planning is supported. The implementation of the plan must follow the sector principle. The usual services in society shall offer everyone. The same bodies must be responsible for supplementing special schemes for disabled persons to which the usual schemes do not extend. In particular, coordination between departments is important in terms of the overall disability policy. Therefore, the right is satisfied that a State Secretary-General’s Committee is to carry out this task and that, in the context of the annual budgets, the Storting will be informed about the follow-up to the Action Plan. It must be an objective of Norwegian development policy to help address the needs and rights of disabled people. I want to pay tribute to the Disability Assistance Foundation and the work they're doing. They represent a resource that needs to be included in this work from the Norwegian side. There are still major challenges and great efforts to achieve the objective of full accessibility, participation and equality for people with disabilities. The Disability Action Plan 1998-2001 shows that we are on track, but a significant effort from all levels of society is required in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e325	When discussing disability in a broad sense, it is important to do so on the basis of humility and respect. It's sometimes said that we all have our disabilities, and I think that claim is right, not least in relation to inadequacy and intolerance. I'm not going to deal with the question of tolerance, but one can rightly point out that the big community, represented by the so-called disability-free, has shown such inadequacy that we are the main cause of the disabled society. St.meld. No 8 think I'm taking this relationship inwards in the right way, but I think we still have to ask ourselves if we have sufficient resources at the economic and other levels to solve all of the disabilities we see that society is obsessed with, within the desired timeframes. It may be dangerous to become far philosophical, but in short, if we want the goals, we also have to want the means. Fortunately, we can see broad political agreement on the objectives of this action plan, and then we must also hope that there is equal consensus on the priorities for achieving them. The so-called disabled are not a single group; assumptions and needs are different as for any other individual. Therefore, it may be wrong to use non-slip definitions, but the Government has found a good starting point for its action plan by stressing the understanding of disability as a disparity between individual assumptions and environmental and societal demands for function in areas that are essential for establishing and maintaining an equally independent and social life. The objective shall be full equality for disabled persons and it shall also be in accordance with the UN standard rules on equal conditions for disabled persons. It is very positive that an action plan for people with disabilities has now been presented as a key message. This plan allows the arrangements in place and to be put into effect in this respect. It provides an overview and a whole that is very important for overall organisation. It is therefore important to stress that the development of well-organised social systems for all provides the least possible provision for individual organisation. In other words, a society that is organised for the disabled, both physically and in the way it meets its inhabitants, will be a good society for all citizens. The principle of sectoral responsibility is underlined in the Action Plan. This is very important, while there is a major challenge in the coordination and overall development of service provision and organisation across sectoral and ethos boundaries. It is highly positive that the plan focuses on interdisciplinary, user-assisted, rehabilitation and professional activities of disabled people. We also see it as important and positive that the living conditions of people with disabilities are given wide scope in the handling of the Government's communication on the balancing of living conditions, which comes to spring. In the case of the necessary physical measures, it is particularly important that the local and transport sectors follow up. Time only allows for cross-references to areas such as accessibility to and in public buildings, increased investment in living standards dwellings and a project such as ‘A society for all’. In the transport sector, it is important to facilitate all public transport and communication for all users. In addition, it must give a stronger priority to organised transport, so that it can be a real offer for all those who need it. New measures during the planning period to improve the provision of training for people with disabilities include, inter alia: action plans for disabled people in the various educational areas. In particular, I would like to mention the attempt to obtain a higher education offer in IT, organised with housing and services for the severely disabled. This has taken a long time, and the central government is now the third government that has this on its table. The project has its birth difficulties and is resource-intensive, but we are pleased that the dialogue and cooperation between the departments, the Hedmark College and the organisations of the disabled will continue, and we look forward to the establishment of an IT education service for disabled people. We also support the proposal put forward here today. Alternative treatments for brain-damaged children have been specifically addressed in the treatment of the plan. These include: referred to the Petø method, and the majority now want to give priority to this methodology through their proposal here today. The centre fraction refers to the work undertaken by the Government in setting up a working group to assess different treatment methods. This work will be completed by the autumn, and we believe it is right to use this time to get the best possible basis for organising such offers. The Progress Party notes in the vote that the Government has not followed up research on a Nordic basis on alternative methods of use of force and coercion. This is not correct, for example. a project is under way in cooperation with the University of Uppsala. Finally, let me summarise a few more suggestions that are very positive for further work with regard to the living conditions and rights of the disabled: better relief services, attempts to pay care and the legalisation of the offer of user-driven personal assistance. These are important steps in the right direction. In other words, the action plan is a good guide on a long and difficult road to full equality for all, including the disabled.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e364	There is a general consensus in the Committee on many of the objectives to be achieved in relation to people with disabilities and an action plan that can lead us towards these objectives. I am therefore not going to go into detail about the plan, as I think many have commented in a good way, and that not least the case-rapporteur made a clear statement, but there are some elements that concern you. One is the goal, another is, as the previous speaker stressed, the means that you are willing to allocate to achieve the objectives. SV fully agrees with the Advance Party that the abstinence of hearing aids must be eliminated, because it must be seen as other technical aids. It's hardly conceivable that people go around this community and abuse their hearing aids. It's a shame a majority wouldn't go in for it. Similarly, special transport is important and quality assurance is needed to enable disabled people to obtain transport opportunities and reach, for example: a work in line with others in society. Here is the Workers' Party and the SV alone. It's a shame you don't get a majority to get it evaluated. Then I would like to comment on what the Progress Party has taken up in terms of Aricept and other medications. We see that this later today is a proposal related to the care of drugs for Subutex or buprenorphine. And you've seen earlier suggestions about Fosamax and other preparations. There is now a trend towards more policy-makers calling for a lack of detailed governance. Hospitals should be released and more market and less management should be provided. But then one ventures out when it comes to single drugs – medicines with difficult predictability, and where professionals say they don't have the desired effect – and say that we as bigpox politicians should decide. We're going to have the drugs in use, because we think they have an effect that professionals don't think they have. If there are some examples of grotesque detailed governance from politicians, it has to be in this area. I think it's relatively exciting that you venture into it. In the case of Aricept, the ministry will come back with its assessment. It can then not be wrong to wait for that assessment, and then perhaps to get a large number to join it. Otherwise, in the context of the budgetary procedure, we have just been able to decide on the funds when we agreed in advance on the objectives. It's interesting after the budgetary agreement that got there, to see what happened to the funds. Operating costs related to disability measures were cut by NOK 151 000. Follow-up to the reform of responsibility for disabled people with under-coverage, which is significant in the host municipalities, was proposed by the Workers' Party and SV, and we also promoted a proposal to bring about a price and salary adjustment in the context of the revised national budget. Neither the government parties nor their budget comrades could go in for it. Operating expenditure related to the disability action plan was cut by DKK 800000 as a result of the budgetary conciliation. Operational expenditure related to measures for the elderly and disabled — older people are the special area of the Advance Party — was cut by 90 000 kroner, perhaps not a large amount, but a choice was made contrary to what is being said in the Chair. An additional item related to operating costs in the same area, elderly and disabled, was cut by NOK 300000. The operating costs of the centre of competence for the disabled were cut by NOK 297 000. The authority system for autists was cut by NOK 200000. The supervisory authority, i.e. the State Health Authority and the county doctors, got a cut of NOK 1843 000. But worst of all, when it comes to improving school performance, in the form of IT technology, tools, data to school for those with special disabilities, you go and cut 55 million. kr. As if there were a lot of people — young people and children — out in this community who are major users of computer equipment! Think about it! Here you can see the consequences of a policy when funds are to be put in place. We can agree on the targets, but there are few parties in this room that are willing to use funds. I hope that at the next crossroads, when we now stand together in relation to the bet on people with disabilities, we can also stand together when we're spending money on the group we've been talking about so hot.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e379	The left had access to disability as one of its main issues at the 1997 decision. We are therefore very pleased that this is a field of action in the new action plan, together with planning and user involvement, disability rights and increased professional activity. It is also important to note that a well-organised society will reduce the need for individual solutions. We often think of people with large motion impairments as disabled people. It is important that we include all the other groups as well, not least groups of elderly and chronically ill. Only in this way can one reach the UN's objectives of full participation and equality. The plan asks for new ideas within a range of areas, such as: IT training and education. More new projects will be launched, e.g. the legalisation of the provision of user-controlled personal assistants. We know that the disabled as a group come out worse than others when it comes to living conditions. In implementing this plan, living conditions will improve for many. The involvement of organisations should be increased in order to implement the plan. It is important that organisations are included in the project groups and selections, and that they are really heard. It is positive that we will receive annual reports on the follow-up to the action plan. I agree with the Committee that the visibility of each department’s responsibilities would be an advantage, not least for our disabled people’s organisations. The new action plan provides for a number of registrations and monitoring of individuals in order to launch precise actions. It is important for the Left that privacy is practised in the same way as for people with disabilities and people with no disabilities. Similarly, there must be no possibility of requiring medical advice unless this applies to medical treatment or preventive health protection, such as the adaptation of aids. We would also like to point out that a mandatory service statement and a commitment to cooperation between the various services must come during the planning period. Many people with disabilities today have to wait a very long time for help or for decisions in the social security system. This leads to unnecessary pain and anxiety. A part of the service statement must be a guarantee of answers within a certain period of time. The plan addresses what is called equals. This turns out to be both interesting and important, and could usefully get a bigger place in the plan. The left has previously suggested that a tax credit should be used to speed up a technological development that will increase accessibility. There is also a need for a higher level of competence. All too often, we're talking about facilities that don't work, now late in connection with the Gardermoen flight, or facilities that only work for a few. We need to take these problems seriously and increase research efforts to get good solutions. Once again, I will refer you to the schools in Randaberg, Rogaland, which are equipped for the faint, hearing impaired and children with physical disabilities. In our technological society, this would be easy to get to, if we just wanted to – and we will!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e404	When dealing with the Disability Action Plan for the period 1998-2001, I will start by commending the Social Minister for the content of the plan. It is properly based on the action plans of the previous government, but it also represents some steps forward for which I think the Council of State should have a say. Before I go into the action plan, I would like to say a few words about the Labour Party's principle policy in this area. The keywords of our policies and the heading of the part of the Workers' Party's basic and work programme dealing with people with disabilities are ‘Participation and equality’. We are therefore pleased that the sub-title of the Government's action plan has just become ‘Participation and equality’. Our starting point is that people with disabilities should have the same opportunities, rights and obligations in society as everyone else. In order to create such equality, there is a need for self-help and assistance for people with disabilities in many areas. We will remove obstacles to participation either in transport, education, leisure, culture, labour or accessibility to buildings and installations. I would like to highlight in particular the importance of the organisation of work for people with multiple disabilities. Everyone needs to feel that they are actively contributing to society. I fear that the requirements of efficiency may seem out of the way of working life, and that many people will be pressured out and next time untrained due to lack of organisation and consideration. I would like to ask the Minister of Social Affairs to comment on whether this can be the case. I would also like to know whether the Social Minister thinks that the arrangements for combining work and social security are flexible enough today. The current revised action plan is based on the key messages on the previous action plans in the 1990s. During the previous action plans, 480 million were allocated. kr for development and new measures and 260 million. SEK for incentives granted to municipalities and county councils. It must be said that there is a broad political consensus on the objectives, actions and challenges of the communication in the policy towards people with disabilities. It also seems that there is a broad consensus that there are a number of unresolved tasks in the field. It's very positive that it's such a broad consensus. In line with the statement by the Social Committee in March, the Action Plan draws up the following areas of action: accessible community planning and user participation rights of disabled people for professional activities for disabled persons The plan represents a step forward in terms of concreteisation and part of action. A total of 143 measures are referred to over 11 departments. This is a clear improvement in relation to previous planning documents, and it is important here that action follows words. The Workers' Party will stress that work must be cross-sectoral and that action takes place in the ordinary course of activity. Measures need to be seen in the context of public affairs. As the Minister for Social Affairs knows, this can be difficult, but here it has to be worked actively, with the interests of users in focus. It is often a problem for many professional bodies to cooperate with each other's culture and budgets. It is particularly important to look at the activities of the social security system, the social security system and social security measures in the context. I would like to point out two areas in which it is particularly desirable that the Government continue its work in the future. Firstly, there is the concreteisation of user involvement. The revised plan is rather more concrete than previous plans, but in terms of user involvement, I think there is a need to cooperate with the organisations of disabled people in order to find appropriate concrete findings. This applies, inter alia, to: to continue working on how we can develop concrete systems for user participation, and then I think about the whole process, from central planning to adaptation to the individual's life situation. Secondly, local planning and follow-up. The plan contains a wide range of measures at national level. However, it is important to ensure that municipalities improve their planning and organisation for people with disabilities. Let's say that many municipalities have come a long way and are already doing a good job. We need to ensure that all municipalities take this seriously and develop local action plans.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e443	It is a new and exciting project to present an action plan for the disabled as a big message. Previous plans have been working papers for the Government and have been useful as a background for this message. I am pleased with the debate the message has contributed to so far, and for the solidly supported plan now gets in Stortinget. A groceries notification is mandatory. The Department of Education shall now jointly and with the self-imposed feedback obligation of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg to ensure that all the many measures taken are followed up. 45 measures are already under way and several are to be implemented during 1999. The Storting Message is part of Norway's work to follow up its UN standard equal opportunities rules for people with disabilities. The standard rules imply a strong moral and political obligation on the part of Member States to take action to ensure a level playing field for people with disabilities. This is an important principle when it comes to responsibility, action and cooperation. The standard rules point to areas that are crucial for quality of life and to achieve full participation and equality, which is the goal of Government overseeing its disability policy. I agree with all those who have said today that this plan will take important steps, but it also says that a lot of work before you can talk about full participation and equality. Let me therefore point to the additional three large-scale documents that in the near future will have a lot to say about too many people with disabilities. The first is the rehabilitation message – St.meld. No 21, Responsibility and chiseling – which is now being treated in Stortinget. A coordinated response to school and work is important, and the value of individual follow-up plans in relation to those with a high need for intervention is underlined. The second document is a big message about equalization in living conditions. This is a work that is currently going on in several departments. The analyses clearly underline what is also the basis for the big message we are dealing with today, the connection between the relationship between the relationship between education and the need for work and having own income to live on. It is both about making the educational provision that is, better known and strengthening it. It's about making known arrangements that one today has in the world of work, it's about developing new schemes and, among other things, it's about creating new ones. The representative, Gunhild Eyering, was looking at the aspect of a softer line than today, so that a better combination of work and social security could be achieved. At a time when there is so much labour shortage, it would have to be greater than ever so that more people with disabilities could try out in the workplace. It requires some of the individual employee and the employer, and it requires greater and stronger cooperation than today between, for example, the employer. social office, employment office and social security office. When it comes to this, we already have a pilot project in progress in connection with the 1999 budget. And then there's a third document. Work has recently started in the Ministry with a big message under the heading ‘Care 2000’, which I would like to present to the Stortinget during the fall. There we look at the content and quality of the care services we provide. In the message, we will focus on the age and their situation – as the committee leader took up today – and what measures are needed there. Similarly, we will look at how we can exploit the technology currently under development on the one hand, so that more people with disabilities can have a more independent everyday approach to legal security and privacy, and then at the need to strengthen the supervisory arrangements we have within this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e458	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e461	Transport to school, work, leisure, etc. is one of the key prerequisites for good availability. Through the media, we can now see that already marginal special transport services are further reduced in county municipalities. Bad economy and many new users are reported as the cause of these reductions. This must be contrary to the intentions of the action plan we are dealing with today. My question to the Council of State will then be: What will the Council of State do to ensure that people with disabilities in the short and long term receive a transport service that is acceptable in order to achieve the functions I mentioned in the introduction?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e466	The representative, Arnesen, addresses a very important topic. It is quite right that he points out that having good transport arrangements is decisive for a great many people with disabilities in relation to the mobility that we would like it to have. Let me point to the work currently being done with a comprehensive transport plan when it comes to the more long-term. In these days, the Minister of Transport has a draft out-of-hearing in the counties and municipalities, and there it is working on recordings both locally and at county level. It is important that the situation of those with disabilities is also taken into account. I know that some of the local populace are busy with this, and I know that there are some places where there is such a good cooperation between user organisations and the populace that this is done there. But let me use the opportunity to underline how important it is that this is also focused in the work on the transport plan. The Minister for Transport himself has said, as the action plan shows, that he will look at the situation of those with disabilities there. Let us then assume that when this debate in these days is actually going on across the whole country, one will also be aware of what the situation is today, and how inadequate the number of people with disabilities is, so that a person already in the budget for next year can take action in the short term.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e475	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e478	I very much welcome the broad agreement in the Committee on the Action Plan for the Disabled. I hope that once we can get so far that there will be no need for our own action plans to ensure the rights of people with disabilities that we take as a matter of course. Not least in the transport sector, I am often surprised by the difficulty or lack of access to public communications. The disabled have the right to use trains, airplanes, trams, etc. I am surprised that the government parties have not adhered to the Workers' Party's and SV's proposal to assess the introduction of guidelines on quality and quantity of special transport. Working for everyone is an important objective. When unemployment rates are high, we take a wide range of measures to offer as much education as possible or a meaningful job. We should be equally concerned that disabled people should have the same rights. I have often reported that employers have been more concerned with helping a disabled person to get sick than with facilitating continued employment, possibly in combination with social security. I am surprised to have met such an attitude with public employers. It has often been easier to obtain good solutions from private employers. However, if disabled people are to compete for jobs, they must have access to the training opportunities we have at all levels. I am therefore pleased that higher education is one of the areas of activity of the Government's Action Plan for the Disabled 1998–2001. It is important that universities and colleges are required to develop their own action plans for disabled students. However, for some people with disabilities special arrangements are essential in order for them to be able to carry out their studies at all. The Youth of Norway's Handicap Association has proposed its own IT training offer, including housing and services for highly disabled people. They have proposed and have worked to add this to the University of Hedmark department of Rena. This case has been working with disabled people for a long time. I was therefore surprised when the State Council of Lilletun in the Questionnaire on 13 January 1999 said that the government of Bondevik was not prepared to move on with the establishment of a separate IT training service for the severely disabled. I was even more surprised when the representative of Groningen Glötvold said in a larger look in Østlandingen on Saturday 13 February. a. the following: ‘The Government Parties’ fraction has been given a section emphasising the continuation of the experience and competence of this project in Hedmark’...’, which then considers the situation to be significantly brighter than it was after the State Council of Lilletun’s opinions on the matter after the New Year.’ It is right, as the representative of Glötvold says, that the situation of establishing an IT study for the disabled is much brighter now than it was after the opinion of the State Council in Lilletun in January. I am pleased that, on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party, I can address the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber. We would like the government parties to join the proposal, as they have now indicated. With regard to the specific proposal submitted, the University of Hedmark department of Rena is mentioned, given that the youth of Norway's Handicap Association has always proposed that the study be placed at the Hedmark High School. In the three governments that have worked on this matter – the government of Harlem Brundtland, the government of Jagland and the government of Bondevik – there has been no discussion of the place of establishment at all, but there has been a question of providing financial resources for such a costly study offer for the disabled.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e505	Einar Olav Skogholt has put forward the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e508	Having a job provides quality of life and content in everyday life. For people with disabilities, this is far from being a matter of course. Much needs to be done to make it possible to have a job to do when you have a lot of other things to strive with. In order to achieve full equality and opportunities for participation in society, increased efforts are required at many levels — not only physical availability but also increased efforts in a number of areas, such as education and alternative jobs for people with mental illness and other invisible diseases. It is good that the plan focuses on multidisciplinary, user participation, rehabilitation and professional activity. Co-location and good cooperation between social security offices, employment offices, social services and health services are necessary in order to maximise the lives of individuals with a particular need. You know best even where the shoe prints. Much of the working life, like the rest of society, is not designed and organized for people with disabilities. There is a need to do something about this in order to make professional activity possible. Facilitating educational institutions is a good start – good education enables work and self-sufficiency. HMS work — health and environmental and safety work — is important to prevent stress damage and the risk of occupational impairment. It is equally important to have a good follow-up of the individual during long-term sick leave. Active health care and assistance to return to work are good measures, which may even be the only option not to be permanently disabled. Sickness or injury that has started with a physical distress may develop rapidly into a psychologically invincible barrier that can lead to isolation and major problems of returning to work and to society elsewhere. It is therefore important that a serious effort is also made in SMEs in the field of HMS work. Many do not have the ability to adapt to an ordinary job. Therefore, it is good that we have a number of opportunities to work in AMB, ASVO and ATS companies, or work with assistance in an ordinary company. I was on a company visit last week in a work training centre owned by three municipalities with employees from the same municipalities. In addition to the places that have State grants, the municipalities buy some places they pay extra for. People with mental disorders also have work in this business. It has its special problems, because some of them come and go without following the clock or working hours. The company has its customers who require fast delivery, quality and competence, as from other subcontractors. There are therefore many good helpers and instructors in such enterprises. It goes without saying that such a company must have state assistance to make it go around. For many municipalities, work on the 1999 budget has been very difficult. The working party proposed NOK 1 billion more to the municipal sector than the majority of the population decided. In addition, the Workers' Party would redeploy NOK 1 billion. The poor local economy has caused people who have offered work on special terms and conditions with grants from the municipality in which they live to lose this. In addition, transport has been significantly reduced around the country for the same reason. It is worrying that those who have an opportunity to have a daily life with the value of having a job to go to are deprived of this because the majority of the population has downgraded the municipal economy. It's hoping for improvements at the next crossroads, i.e. for the examination of the budget for next year. In addition, more attention needs to be paid to the establishment of the labour market in order to facilitate work for more people with mental illness, as provided for in the escalation plan. Those who have tried to achieve something have been quick to learn that it is necessary to develop specific measures that will enable them to deal with unstable attendance and other difficult adaptation problems. Engaging in work gives participation and equality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e544	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e548	There are many good measures in the action plan. In my article I would like to address issues that should have been clarified a little bit more. The term ‘disabled’ may seem unclear in view of comments and articles here today. It seems that there are symptoms and the need for organization that are the starting point, and it can be a good way of thinking, but how will it turn out when we're going to discuss rights, especially in the form of law? For example, the Committee's comments and articles on Alzheimer's and senile dementia can be mentioned. Is it part of the disability action plan or is it still going to be in the geriatry? And should the normal ageing process, which leads to PRM, reading problems and care needs, be an area of activity within the action plan of the disabled? To date, there has been cooperation for joint organisation. The content of the concept of ‘user involvement’ should also be clarified, because it is three degrees, or levels, of participation. The first is user involvement with competence at its own need for organisation, the second is user involvement where one represents a diagnostic group, an organisation, and the third is user involvement where one represents many types of disability and many organisations. Unfortunately, after contacting only one organisation, quality assurance still exists, and it may be very wrong when one knows that the need for organisation is different for different groups of people with disabilities. This also applies to the IT centre of Rena, where the disability organisation represents the PRM and not other groups of disabled people. Furthermore, political participation in municipalities, county councils and large-scale activities has been addressed both in comments and in articles here today. But most of the angle happens in relation to people with reduced mobility, where a point is also made that this pulpit is not accessible to the disabled. But what about all the disabled people we already have on the Storting, and accessibility in the writing language, the amount of stuff we're going to go through? I miss verbal support for the informal dyslexic group, which consists of deposit representatives from most parties. We are working to find tools to facilitate the work, in good and constructive dialogue with our helpers here at Stortinget. Font and font size are good in the house's own production. Worse than that, there are long sentences and difficult words, not least in the Government's big messages and propositions. It could be a lot better. User involvement is also a keyword here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e561	Today, the size takes an important step forward in favour of children with great mobility, in particular children with cerebral parasites, CP, by the majority of the Stortinge joining the Workers' Party's proposal to make the so-called Petø method available for training. This is a systematic program where learning is based on interaction between children in groups and where the child's parents are constantly involved, while the whole is directed by instructors with broad multidisciplinary knowledge based on physiotherapy, childcare, logopedia, pedagogics, psychology, anatomy and neurology. The obvious goal is to teach children skills to master daily life better, and of course with great emphasis on walking function. The disadvantages have been that the scheme has been expensive for parents and has not been available since the professional staff of Norway were taken from Hungary. In most cases, the scheme has been implemented without public support. However, I am familiar with the fact that the Regional Hospital in Tromsø has entered into the project and both professionally and financially provided its support for a scheme in Tromsø. I am also aware that Norwegian professionals, including: Psychological adviser, pediatrician, physiotherapist and specialised educator have followed the project in Tromsø over three years and evaluated this. The report confirms results which indicate that this offer must reach CP-related children in Norway. That is why we must now make this an offer for which public health services are responsible, possibly in an interaction with private practitioners. I expect that for a long time it will be relevant to use a foreign health professional, but that we are now assessing how we can build up our own competence with Norwegian health professionals. When I have mentioned measures in Tromsø in particular, it is related to the measures that have been the most extensive, but I am well aware that it has also been implemented in other parts of the country according to the same method. I have recorded that the measures often stop due to a lack of finances. This can no longer be known to Health-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e578	I have a note on the proposal which has been promoted on behalf of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Right and the Socialist Left. These parties shall, together, give a majority opinion within the Committee, which shall state the following: These parties «are also aware that the Youth of Norway's Handicap Association has proposed an IT training offer including housing and services for highly disabled people, added to one of our colleges. The majority are in favour of this proposal and would like to ask for clarification as soon as possible’. The proposal as it stands includes the choice of places at the same time. That was not what was said in the majority comment. I would recommend to the Workers' Party to change this and take out the 'High School in Hedmark' and take back what is stated in the remarks, that this be established by 'one of our colleges'. If the Workers' Party is not willing to do so, the Advance Party will withdraw from the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e587	I am pleased that the Government has addressed the issues of occupational activity among disabled people in this message. It is important here that plans are carried out in good time and work is carried out, and this needs to be looked at in a cross-sectoral manner to develop the right types of enforcement measures. Measures to motivate and master the community are a good example of this. Otherwise, it should be a failure statement for all of us when people with disabilities who wish to change to professional rehabilitation end up as social clients. Here, cooperation between social security, labour market and social affairs is important. More than a quarter of a million people in Norway are underprivileged. We know that many of these have a reserve of labour that could be useful both for their own and for society. No one knows how many of these people want a job, but there's probably a lot of hidden unemployment. And we know that many people gradually give up looking for work. Workplaces have several measures to get out of work, but only half are closed in search of a suitable job. It should then be a crossroads of thought that the State, the county municipality and the municipalities are the employers who are at least good at incorporating job seekers in fixed positions, as stated in Stavanger Aftenblad on 28 January. It should be a challenge for just these to fix this statistics. At the same time, the Swedish National Agency pays billions a year to the disabled. The government agency’s last report showed that only 12,000 out of a total of 322 000 people reported active health care. A study from Moss found that only half of the long-term health reports returned to their usual work. As a result, early interventions are so important, and the sick keep in touch with the workplace. In case of active sick leave, the sick person can continue in the job with planned tasks. One believes that activity for many is better medicine than being passive and isolated home. Otherwise, there must also be a main line of action to ensure that working life is so arranged that a disability does not lead to a disability. The social partners must also be involved in this. I think everyone's thinking that we're going to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e602	I regret if the wording of the proposal in question creates difficulties and uncertainties. The reason why the University of Hedmark Department Rena is mentioned is that the Youth of Norway's Handicap Association itself has made such a proposal, and as I said earlier, there has been no disagreement in any of the three governments that have dealt with this matter, on where the establishment should take place. The problems so far have been successful in providing the necessary resources to establish such a provision of education for the disabled. I am very pleased that this suggests that it will perhaps be a unanimous support for the proposal that has been put forward. There will be a lot to do in order to realize such a teaching offer for the most disabled, and I hope that the Government will address this matter as soon as possible and realize the plans that have been in place in the departments for a long time. There has in no way been any desire to establish such an offer in Hedmark, and I also believe that both treatment in the government and largely later will show that there will be little debate about the place of establishment. Following the call made by the representative of Alvheim, I allow myself to propose that we amend the proposal submitted so that we delete the words ‘Høgskole in Hedmark department Rena’ and change it to ‘one of our colleges’. Then the debate will clarify the place of establishment in the future. As I said, I hope to quickly realize such a training offer for this group.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e611	I feel the need at the bottom of this debate to sign out three themes. As I said in my first post, the follow-up is required because ten departments are involved here. Let me first say to the proposal concerning the provision of IT education: it is right that the Council of State Lilletun has an involvement. I know that he, in cooperation with the disabled people's organisations, is looking at how such education can be strengthened. And as the representative of Skogholt was in, it's the economy and what one gets for the funds in total, that will be decisive for the choice of solution. But I'm going to make sure that what is agreed here today is drilled, so that the assessment that the government here is asked for, both is made and reported back at the rate that I understand it is a broad deal. Then to the Petø method. There I would like to stress that there is already an assessment in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health of both that method and alternative methods based on the fact that the Petø method imposes heavy burdens on the children undergoing treatment, and requires a very high level of effort from family members that it is indebted to. I believe that this is a number that wants to go further than the work that has already been reported by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health – I am thinking about the working group that has been set up and the result to be achieved in the autumn of 1999. I'll bring it with me to the Minister of Health. Then finally, to the representative Wisløff Nilssen and what she was busy about. It's clear that she really looks at the extent of commitment needed when we're talking about full participation and equality. She was also involved in the government's own documents and the obstacles they could be to people with difficulty in reading. How much we can do with it is to see. But I'm also going to take it with me as an important signal from this debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e622	Only a few words in connection with the proposal on the provision of IT training for people with disabilities. The proposers put a proposal on the table here today that we from the government fraction were not familiar with until today. And now that they finally agree on what they want to add to this, we think it's okay. We continue to support the proposal. What we needed in the setting was to stress that the experience and competence of this IT project in Hedmark related to the University of Rena has to be passed on. It's been important to us. At the same time, it has also been important in dialogue with the departments concerned to confirm that this is done by maintaining contact with the higher education institutions in Hedmark and will work on this. Then it's okay for us, and we can vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e627	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 1967]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e643	A difficult political career is achieved by going to the barricades to improve the life situation and quality of life of the highly unhappy and seriously ill drug injectors. I've got a lot of negative reactions to my commitment in that way. But I ask: aren't not also the drug addicts, and indeed our fellow people, who in their situation have a claim on society's help to get away from the hell they're going through every day, a life of degradation, of crime, prostitution, fast failing physical and mental health? They also experience outbursts and harassment within the auxiliaries. These people were born into the world with the same possibilities as you and I. Most parents had high expectations of their offspring, but something went wrong in late childhood or early childhood. Over the last ten years, over 1,000 young people have been lost from overdose, the last year being a total of 200, the highest in Western Europe taking into account the population. Such a frightening development must mean that treatment provision and the policy that has been pursued against the heaviest drug users have fallen and that the treatment strategy needs to be changed immediately. The responsibility for the treatment of heavy drug addicts must be the responsibility of the health services. The injecting drug users are seriously ill people, who, in addition to their daily heroin poisoning, have suffered a number of somatic disorders. It is not useful to bet on yesterday's treatment with a drug-free objective and a treatment marked by moralism, condemnation and coercion. For many professionals in prominent positions in our treatment system with such a view, this can be a serious brake on new forms of treatment. The transfer of responsibility for injecting drug users to the healthcare system will in itself lead to increased responsibilities and greater rights for individuals in this patient group. There are currently synthetic drugs with proven good effect, such as methadone, which have been tested by a project in Gaustad in the years 1994-97. In recent years, a new drug, Subutex, has also been used with proven good performance abroad and also sporadic in our own country. Subutex is easier to administer than methadone and is easier to step down on a drug-free basis. However, Subutex is not authorised for general use in Norway. Finally, I would like to mention the treatment with anesthesia for the detoxification of injecting drug users, which is widely used in the United States and Canada, and among others. was planned to be started at Aker Hospital, but the project was stopped for some reason. The test project at Gaustad was extremely successful. Most clients gained a significantly better quality of life. They could function socially in relation to family and community. Many returned to work, several continued their education, and overdose deaths were not observed. However, the recording criteria were restrictive, resulting in only a small minority receiving methadone treatment. In the settings of the drug message, Inst. S. No. 184 for 1996-97, a unanimous social committee recommended that the intake criteria be relaxed, which included: age and a more flexible practice of criteria, so that people who would benefit from treatment were not cut off. In 1997, decisions were taken to provide methadone treatment in all regions and to build up a major methadone project and centre of expertise in Oslo, which is responsible for treating 300 people. It is a great pity that one in one year has not yet had the power to offer methadone treatment to more than approx. 200 clients on the ground. I am strongly critical of the professional giant project that is under construction in Ullevål Hospital, MARIO, where significant parts of the resources allocated go to professional professional professional development, and where a total of 80 people are required to provide outpatient treatment for 300 patients. At the same time, it is reported that 300 clients have to wait three to four months for methadone treatment. Statistically, this waiting time will mean that a dozen people will have to die in this queue. This project can hardly be seen as an immediate emergency on the street level, and that is exactly what we needed now. I would recommend to the Minister of Social Affairs to go into the project at Ullevål and make sure that the resources benefit patients and patient care. If it is willful, we now have the opportunity to provide treatment very quickly to all those who are currently in a life-threatening situation. We need to use the drugs that we have available to save as many lives as possible as possible as quickly as possible. Treatment with Subutex can be established very quickly at our drug treatment centres. However, there has to be a radical change in the admission criteria for such treatment, both in age and in abuse time. From a health point of view, it may not be appropriate to require 10 years of heroin use for methadone treatment. After such a long period of use, the patient is both physically and mentally harmed. In the larger cities, special health services should be provided for drug addicts, so that their health situation can be monitored in general. Drug addicts will not be able to benefit from the usual provision of primary health services. There they are rejected, outlawed and partially harassed. The recent Social Minister's answer to questions in the Questionnaire by the representative Einar Olav Skogholt about immediate action was extremely disappointing. The establishment of a working group and more coercive was the proposal of the Minister of Social Affairs for immediate action. There are yesterday's solutions proposed by the Minister of Social Affairs here. We don't need any further investigations. We have enough knowledge from home and abroad to get started. And when this working group, set up by the Minister of Social Affairs, has neither prominent representatives of the Norwegian Department of Drug Protection nor representatives of the institutions that are the heaviest and largest in drug treatment, it also says something about the willingness to think new. With regard to extended coercive treatment, I am very sceptical. At least there must be treatment sites to refer to if you are going to coercive treatment for drug addicts, and these treatment sites are not available today. I want to sum up briefly: 1st@item: inlistbox Transfer responsibility for the treatment of injecting drug users to the Health Department of the Ministry of Social and Health.2. Order the methadone project on Ullevål to start treatment for the 300 people in Oslo who have been cleared for methadone treatment, immediately! 3. Approve the preparation of Subutex prescribed by psychiatrists and internal physicians for the treatment of heroin users!4. Suggest earmarked appropriations for the investment and operation of health stations for drug addicts in Oslo and other major cities!5. Make sure that Aker Hospital is given the opportunity to start detoxification with the use of anesthesia. Finally, I would like to address the proposals from the Progress Party which are in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e689	John I. Alvheim has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e692	The answer to the representative Alvheim's question is yes. I have spent a lot of time in the last year improving the situation for the most common drug users. Work will be reinforced in 1999. The Health Minister and I were present in the last week at the opening of the so far latest measure for this group; one of five new low-threshold health services for drug addicts in Oslo. The Ministry of Health has provided support for the operation of health centres, and we have provided advice on the evaluation of the measure in order to be able to transfer experience to other cities. A total of 270 drugrelated deaths have been recorded in 1998 by the Criminal Police Centre. This is a significant increase since 1997, when the number was 177. For the first time, there were as many deaths of drugs other than in Oslo — 136 against Oslo’s 134. Of those who die in Oslo, about a quarter come from other municipalities. This suggests that the overdose problem is no longer a specific Oslo phenomenon. Of the 270 died in 1998, there were 226 men and 44 women. The average age of men was 35.5 years and of women 33.8 years. Behind every single number in the statistics is a human being who had a lot of problems to contend with, and who got too short a life. Family and friends remain in grief, often with a series of questions they never got an answer to. Several factors affect the number of deaths in this area. In general, there are several older addicts who are physically and psychologically more likely to happen. It is mainly heroin that kills, and most people who die have abused this drug for years. The availability of heroin has been high for a long time, and prices are falling. Heroin in combination with alcohol and anaesthetic medicinal product increases the risk of fatal overdose. We also know that drug users who have been in treatment, in prison or who have been drug-free for a period of other reasons are losing their tolerance for heroin and are thus at increased risk of overdose. I have closely followed the work in Oslo last year. A working group, set up by the Municipality of Oslo, presented a report in April 1998 proposing action against the overdose problem. Many of the measures have been implemented by the municipality. A cross-cutting steering group has been appointed at political and administrative level to improve coordination of efforts. Add to public and private enterprises that come into contact with drug addicts, e.g. have received training in primary care in serving places and in accommodation facilities. Inclusions in institutions and prisons should be used for printing, among other things. to inform about the risks of overdose associated with the use of heroin after a prolonged period of time. There are ear-marked beds in institutions that can accept clients who have taken overdose. Treatment institutions have been instructed to ‘keep the door open’ for a period of time for clients who fall out of a scheme. Many of the heavily burdened addicts have poor health and are particularly vulnerable to the transmission of serious diseases such as tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS, hepatitis and sexually transmitted diseases. Often they come too late or stay away from the usual primary care service. In the newly opened health centres, nurses will provide easy treatment, change wounds and burrows, and carry out infectious work. Health centres also provide opportunities to meet addicts in safe settings with guidance and guidance on treatment arrangements. A detachment will circulate between the five lowthreshold services, which will also cooperate with the ambulance service and the other interventions for drug users in the municipality. Since 1992, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has provided support for measures to reduce the burden on drug users in Oslo and subsequently in other major urban municipalities. In 1999, Oslo of the United Kingdom was given the right to develop the social services and interventions for drug users and to provide a range of responses for the most problematic drug users, between these approaches to the outreach service and the specific health service I just mentioned. also Tromsø, Bodø, Trondheim, Bergen, Kristiansand, Arendal, Tønsberg and Drammen take advantage of this approach to locally adapted measures for the same target group. The availability of methadone-assisted rehabilitation is an important complement to drug-free treatment and the specific interventions targeting drug users in emergencies and in the event of overdoses. Through this government's investment, to which the Storting has joined, the offer has been made to be nationwide. At the Center for Methadone Assisted Rehabilitation in Oslo, it was per year. On 11 February of this year, following the Centre’s own data, 239 clients were admitted to health region 1 and 322 Oslo clients on the search list. In Hordaland, 27 addicts are opposed to treatment, and 15 are on their way in. In West Agder there are 11 for treatment and three on the way in. The other agreed interventions will start in March and April. In spite of everything done by the municipalities and the state, we see that help is either not there, or that one comes up in too many situations when drug users need the most help. Many of us know that tolerance is put to the test in relation to the fact that it takes time to establish an individually adapted methadone supply for all those who hope to benefit from it. At the same time, we know that help must be qualified. Had we opened up so that all the hotheads could print out any of the methadone and similar cures to all the addicts who wanted it, it had the drill gone wrong. We know that methadone, which is printed without adequate control and follow-up, makes it worse. In Norway, we have chosen to raise awareness that methadone should be a tool for something more than to keep the patient under control. Taking methadone is not a treatment of opiate abuse itself. A hot guy who starts printing methadone will take on a patient responsibility that will be all his life out. Instead, a defensive control and response device must be built in the municipalities around each individual client providing methadone through individual action plans. At the same time, stable bow conditions are necessary. The expansion to new addicts is now fast, but both the competence and the response apparatus must be developed at a defensive pace, so that clients are provided with the necessary follow-up needed to close down. There is debate both nationally and internationally about the so-called harmreduction measures for drug addicts, among others. the availability of clean syringes, ‘spray rooms’ in terms of publicly prepared areas where drug users can inject on health care staff supervision, and the printing of methadone and other narcotic drugs. Some countries have gone a long way in promoting such measures. Other countries have a more sustained and restrictive attitude, and believe that when no greater harm reduction is achieved, it is the same as taking steps towards liberalising drug policy and legalising drug abuse. I think it must be possible and right to have more thoughts and strategies in my head at one and the same time. There is no single action that can solve drug users’ demands for help and treatment. We must have a lack of action. We both need to maintain and strengthen the drug-free provision of help in and outside the clinics. This is because I have set down a working group — a treatment commission, if any — that, according to the size of the population, goes through drug users’ interventions. The group is very busy. It looks at the number of treatment sites in relation to demand and what is lacking today, at measures to further develop the quality of supply and whether it is necessary to propose changes in current administrative and financial accountability. The group should complete this work before the summer. I want to come back to Stortinget in connection with the Storing message ‘Care 2000’, which I mentioned in the previous case. At the same time, we need to be willing to review new trials and measures when we see that what has been done to date is not enough. I already want to take Norwegian expertise in two weeks to visit France to get a direct knowledge of their experience with buprenorphine. I want representatives from both the Methadone Centre in Oslo and from the Department of Drug Protection in Norway to evaluate any follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e722	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The last thing that was said in the response of the Council of State was that the Council of State was interested in and committed to considering new measures. I think it's nice to register, and I want to be happy on the trip to France with regard to this drug, which has been used there for a long time and with good experience. But we don't have to reinvent the powder in this country. When we have solid foreign documentation, and also a trace of good documentation from our own country, it should not be necessary to carry out one after the other to get started. I reject the idea that methadone treatment is considered a legalization. I reject that in cash. It's true that most of those who get methadone are in such an advanced situation that they may become dependent on methadone throughout their lives. But we're saving their lives! We give them a normalized life situation and quality of life, and I think it's very important to keep an eye on these too. The Minister of Social Affairs did not respond to my thoughts about moving the drug injectors away from the client role in social care with which they are involved and on to a patient role in health care. I think that by itself adjusting the care of the drug addicts, so that they are not compared to the large group of social clients, would be an incredibly good start. They're not social clients – they're sick people, they're patients! We must maintain that, and from those points of view, we must also facilitate the treatment to be given. Otherwise, I am happy with the low-threshold services that are now established in Oslo, and I know the Social Minister has had a strong hand in it. I appreciate that very much and I am very happy about it. But it's not just Oslo, as it was said. We actually need these measures in all the larger cities now. And it was surprising to hear that it was not just 200 dead, but 270. It makes the situation even more serious, from my point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e733	I am pleased with the new three minutes to deepen my answer, not to be misunderstood so that someone could believe that I did not choose to answer some of Alvheim's questions. Let me take that with the organization first. There is no doubt that very many drug users are patients. They are major consumers of health services, and they get their health services in line with other patients. In order to reach even more of those with health services, these health centres have been set in motion. But I want to distance myself from making drugs a pure health issue. What I mean is to ignore the social causes that often form the basis for drug abuse, and to ignore the potential for motivation and growth on the part of the individual. There will be a lot of people present and needs to be developed, and there will be a need for a combined help beyond healthcare. So the question is, what is the allocation of methadone? Following a decision in Norway, a term ‘methado-assisted rehabilitation’ is precisely used to underline the same threat that, as far as possible, individual drug addicts should be monitored for housing, education, work — whatever they may be — in order to enable them to have a long-term life free of drugs. If it is to be closed, it goes without saying that there is a need for a plan of measures around the individual debt, and then there is probably also at the bottom of a set of needs for professional competence that takes care of this in cooperation with the municipalities. So to experience from France and other countries. There is successful experience with buprenorphine as an alternative to methadone. However, there is also a high risk of using this substance, because it is in tablet form, is crushed and can be sprayed, unlike methadone, which is given in liquid form, in sweet juice. There is also a great deal of discomfort about the use of Subutex in professional environments in Norway. If it hadn't, it would have been a strong pressure from a long time ago to develop this offer in Norway. So here I think we need to gain experience and look at the assessments that are made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e744	The overdose situation in Norway is exceptional. Recently, we have seen a dramatic increase in the number of overdose deaths, and the problem is spreading across the country. Last year, well over 200 people died, about 140 of them in Oslo. Overdose deaths represent one of our most serious social problems. Unfortunately, there is much to suggest that overdose deaths only represent the top of an iceberg. It is an exceptional situation, which requires exceptional measures, and in my view we must take the situation much more seriously than we have so far. Therefore, from the Labour Party, we are presenting a ten-point plan based on the very critical situation we are experiencing. These proposals are a mix of immediate and longer-term prevention measures. Over the 1990s, about 1 000 people have met overdose deaths. Our task is not to moralize over the unhappy people. Our task is to take harm-reduction measures that can save people. We cannot fail to take action as we know it works — as long as more than 2,000 overdoses are applied annually, of which over 200 with fatal outcomes, we cannot fail to try harm-reduction measures that we know work. Experience with methadone-assisted treatment is good. Treatment helps heavy drug addicts to make life easier and more worthwhile. The Labour Party therefore proposes that the provision of methadone-assisted treatment be made on a country-wide basis, because this has not been implemented. Per. Today, about 500 heavy drug addicts are waiting for methadone treatment. With today’s capacity, it may be several years before the drug addicts get the treatment they want more than anything else. During that time, some of them are likely to cause overdose. Additional measures are therefore urgently needed. The Workers' Party proposes that the heavy users who are waiting for methadone be offered treatment with Subutex. The experience with Subutex, especially in France, but also in Skien, is very good. Subutex treatment can be initiated on short notice, it is easy to manage, and financially it is a reasonable offer. The drug is already approved for use under certain conditions in Norway, and I think the Council of State is aware that there is actually a pressure from the professional community to make more use of it. The Labour Party will have further investigated the principal and practical aspects of so-called injection rooms. Experience in Frankfurt suggests that injection rooms with health professionals have resulted in a decrease in the number of overdose deaths. The appropriateness of injection rooms must therefore be investigated immediately, and any counter-arguments must also be highlighted. The professional community sees a new pattern of overdoses, where about half of the overdoses are used by people who are not already known by the treatment system. This means that actions need to be put in place for better monitoring and more outreach work in municipalities. For many overdose victims, poor general health is a common denominator. It is therefore necessary to introduce measures as outreach health teams in cities, different lowthreshold services for drug users, as well as health assessment and health counselling in relation to the injecting bus in Oslo. There is an urgent need for immediate action to help today’s drug addicts. In the long term, it will be essential to strengthen prevention and awareness-raising among children and young people. Only with active prevention at a broad level can we address the drug problem at its root. So to the proposals promoted by the Workers' Party: a correction has been made in proposal No. 4 which is distributed in the hall. The number 500 is taken out. Proposal No. 6 addressed to: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of outreach health teams and low-threshold health services for drug users in larger cities.’ Furthermore, the Labour Party's proposal, which has been promoted by myself, is so extensive that I would therefore propose that it be sent to the Social Committee for consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e766	Gunhild The eye then drew up the suggestions on behalf of the Labour Party, with the changes it referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e769	Drug use and other addictive substances cause tragic deaths. As the inter-pellant points out, in 1998 it has been approx. Over 200 overdose deaths due to drugs. In figures, this represents only a small fraction of deaths due to addictive substances, mainly tobacco, which are responsible for 7 000 to 8 000 deaths each year in Norway, i.e. one death approximately every hour of the day, all the days of the year, i.e. alcohol, assuming about 1500 deaths per day. years. Both tobacco and alcohol often lead to prolonged illness, but also sudden deaths. Accidents associated with alcohol include: the largest cause of death among young people under 25 years of age. In addition to accidents, we also have killings and suicides. In addition, it is important to remember that alcohol plays an increasing role in deaths attributed to drug overdoses. As is known, mixed use is an increasingly important cause of overdose deaths. The tragic deaths caused by overdoses of drugs are thus in many ways a dramatic expression of the top of an iceberg. When we want to prevent and prevent these more than 200 deaths, we also need to focus on prevention of the almost 10,000 annual deaths caused by drugs and other addictive substances. We must also be aware that overdose rates alone are not the only objective of a national drug policy. As far as the concrete measures are concerned, I would like to refer to the statements made by the Minister of Social Affairs. I am particularly pleased with the new field care that the Municipality of Oslo has opened as a health service for its capital drug addicts. As the interpellant points out, it's about patients with a variety of diseases. There has been a strong focus on methadone treatment. Such treatment requires a motivated staff, active counselling and a clear structure. Administering methadone without active follow-up has little positive effect on behaviour and quality of life. It therefore takes time to build up this offer, which the Stortinget has already adopted, to be nationwide. There is therefore no reason to adopt this once more today, as proposed by the Workers' Party. I am surprised that the Workers' Party will now also look into the new practice of starting treatment with named drugs on the basis of an interpellation debate. I do not consider myself competent to distribute such prescriptions, and I think it is not with respect to notifying the Storting as a whole. Another of the Workers' Party's proposals is also protruding. Here the Workers' Party asks the Government to investigate the establishment of injection rooms with health professionals. This means in clear terms that health professionals should be present in this case or assist in the use of illicit drugs. This is a proposal that will involve a non-legal approach, so at least the practical legalisation of drug abuse. If that's what the Workers' Party really wants to figure out, I think it would have been harder to say it right out. In my view, it is not the task of health professionals to assist in drug abuse. Nor is it the task of the Storting to run the kind of government that the Workers' Party's many and detailed proposals provide.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e782	Tragic overdose deaths are increasing. Unfortunately, it looks like they do it year after year. I agree with the Council of State that we therefore need a variety of measures. When overdose deaths have increased in the last year, heroin is now more readily available and prices are lower than ever before. Therefore, the fight against overdose must not only target addicts but also provide the police with the increased resources they need to limit the trafficking of heroin. And we need a variety of prevention measures, so that young people do not start on a drug addiction path. Despite the great commitment of the interpellant, for which we all have great respect, I think that the interpellant leaves the impression that nothing is being done specifically in Oslo to try to limit overdose deaths and to limit drug dependence. It's not right, as the Council of State was in it. Oslo actually spends more than 500 million. In the United Kingdom, the proportion of drugrelated deaths among drug users among drug users is estimated to be the same as in the United Kingdom, and the proportion of drugrelated deaths among drug users among drug users in the United Kingdom. This year alone, the budget has increased by 40 million. kr, in addition to what you otherwise use. But there is good reason – as the interpellant also does – to ask questions about whether it should not be done more by the state to help Oslo and other cities try to bring this problem to life. It is true, as the Council of State also said, that the Oslo City Council has taken the initiative through a working group to obtain a number of measures to address these problems. I just mention some of those that I think are most important. An advisory committee on drug issues has now been set up, bringing together both the Directorate of Drugs, the prison services, the police and local authorities. We have received first-aid training for employees in both private and public enterprises, including for the addicts themselves. The establishment of lowthreshold health services in five different locations has been launched — as discussed by the Council of State. I think it is important, when some parties now propose what they call a new drug policy, to look at the totality. I'm not sure the so-called spray rooms are the way to go. We know that only approx. 20 pst. Of overdose deaths occurring outside, 50 pst. happens in private homes, 20 pst. in other dwellings, such as shelters and other housing services. I think it must be better to build up health services that seek out drug users and provide them with help and advice, rather than making it easier and easier to inject.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e793	We have had a dramatic increase in the number of overdose deaths in recent times here in Norway. These are tragedies for very many people, and it is a tragedy for the welfare state of Norway. We need a variety of measures, and I think that some of those who are strongly committed to this now narrow it down quite strongly. The drug problem and the pattern of abuse are not static, said the Council of State, but more or less constantly changing, and it confronts us with new drug policy challenges. That's right. But I think there will be a lot of talk about this with methadone and substitution treatment compared to a multiplicity of action plans where one has to take far more consideration than just replacing the illegal drugs with what can be given to drugs. When the Workers' Party now promotes a ten-point plan for this sector and this work, it is in itself affordable. But at least there's a bit of a dull taste in my mouth when they come up with a ten-point plan like that. First of all, these are pretty loose points. Secondly, it becomes a little bit strange, when we know that this party put with the government power until at the end of 1997 and didn't bring any of these points then, because some of the points might say are more timeless. At the same time – when you look at some of these points – there are things that are common in doing this work. Some of the points are pretty radical. It is good that we get radical proposals in relation to a major and significant problem, but I think it is very little reflected around these relatively radical proposals, as the proposal that the 500 heavy addicts waiting for methadone-assisted treatment should get Subutex instantly. Another proposal concerns the setting up of injection rooms with health professionals. I think here we have a way to go when it comes to discussing the legal and not least the principle and ethical aspects of this. Among other things, it has been mentioned by other representatives that much of this happens in private homes. I think we need to have a far wider action plan with an action plan built up for the individual addict, as well as a control system that will ensure that we do not legalise these drugs more than is strictly necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e807	Many drug addicts in Norway today are at the bottom of our social rank. One is considered criminal, dangerous, and optional. One has bad health. One is maybe without housing and without education that gives opportunities to work, and maybe one is without family and the social network that we humans need. In this debate, the focus is on the many deaths of overdose. But we must not forget those who, because of poor health, lose their lives, nor those who are no longer able to take their own lives. The most important thing is that in our policies to improve the quality of life for our drug addicts, we see human dignity and improve the quality of life first. This may require a change in some strategies and measures that we have built up our drug policy to date. Of course, the prevention efforts to prevent our young people from starting up with drugs must be continued, and it must be stepped up. We need to assess new measures for those who are unable to get out of the abuse. We need to work to get individualised treatment provision. It goes without saying that then the provision of treatment must become nationwide. The newly started methadone project needs to be evaluated. While we are working to achieve an optimal supply in terms of quality, we should be able to assess immediate measures to improve the life situation of our drug addicts. The treatment criteria should be evaluated. Age limit for treatment is 25 years. Many young people start with heroin in their 12th century, and we must not shut them off from treatment if they want to. The criterion of the fixed dwelling must be evaluated. The Minister of Social Affairs has set up a working group to review drug users’ interventions. I hope that this working group will also assess the actions that other countries have seen. The Minister of Social Affairs refers to experience in France. But one should also study the results of such studies. Denmark, Frankfurt and Zurich. The Swiss heroin treatment project has led to positive consequences both for the drug addicts themselves and for society around them. We need to assess whether such projects can also be part of our treatment provision. It is therefore important that we look at what other countries have seen of measures to improve the quality of life of their drug addicts. We can also, even as individuals, make an effort. I want to give tribute to the Church's City Mission and the NSB, who have started a collaboration to improve the hopes of those who are currently traveling at the Oslo Central Station. The Labour Party and the Progress Party have tabled a total of 13 proposals for decisions. I am pleased that these now, at least from the Labour Party, have been considered to be sent to the Social Committee. The Minister for Social Affairs says she will inform the Storting about the outcome of the work of the working group. The left would like the Storting to discuss all problem areas when it comes to drug use.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e826	I think it has been interesting to follow the debate that has been going on here today, and I would like to start by saying that it is really commendable by the head of the social committee — and the interpellant — to take the initiatives he is taking, related to drug care. I think he has both a credible commitment, and with the recordings that come, some of us have to think through the offer you've had for drug addicts, and the treatment approaches you've had. I think that when someone starts to make a point that the Workers' Party has failed in its responsibility, it's too cheap, because here all the parties have failed in their responsibility. In SV too, the position related to methadone treatment has been restrictive. I have to say, for my part, after the social committee was in Hong Kong, that it was a thought to see the results they had there. Methadone should be made available to a much greater extent, and it should be made available rapidly throughout the country. And of course it's going to happen as part of a rehabilitation facility. When the Labour Party today comes up with its ten points, I think it is very affordable. Especially when we are not going to deal with the proposal in the Chamber, but when it is sent to the Social Committee – and I understand that it is also the reality of the proposals of the Progress Party – it means that we have to think in a completely different way from now on through the policies that have been pursued in the area of drugs and drug abuse in Norway, and also that the government parties are given the opportunity to involve the other perspectives of which they are concerned. But I seem to notice that here are the different attitudes in different parties, and that the government parties are the ones that kind of hold back the most and are most sceptical about action, maybe also about methadone. We have to assume that drug services in Norway have actually failed. There are so significant differences in the results achieved in other countries and Norway that we cannot sit and wait for numbers similar to those obtained last year – 270 is an all-encompassing figure. And when the social minister says that drug users also use the health system, because they develop disease, it is important to be aware that drug abuse, drug abuse, is a disease in itself. When the interpellant is concerned that it needs to be looked at, perhaps also consider whether the health department in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health should be responsible, I think there are a kind of considerations that actually have a lot to do. There can almost not be strong enough commitment to those drug addicts and to make conditions better for them. Any initiative that puts the matter on the agenda in this respect will at least look at me and SV as affordable. That is why I would also like to congratulate the Labour Party on the initiative they have shown here. SV will follow them a long way, even if you have to discuss Subutex, and if it has to be released.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e839	I'd like to give tribute to Mr. Alvheim, who has addressed a very important topic today in his interview. While the Storting debated the issues of the Social Committee today, one person would have taken an overdose in Oslo. Over 2 000 people overdosed in 1998. It's just a very good ambulance service in, among other things, Oslo, which means that we had no more than approx. 200 overdose deaths in 1998. This is too high a number. Unfortunately, the number of overdose deaths increases from year to year, and is among the highest in relation to countries with which we can compare. ==References== Half of those who die of an overdose are not known for their auxiliary services, police etc. What offers do we have for all those rescued by the Ambulance Service after an overdose? I am afraid that most people will be sent out on the street or to their home – if they have any. We have a formidable task of improving the backlog of drug addicts. Of course, the most important thing is to invest in prevention, preventing drug abuse from starting at all. But at the same time, we must be able to take care of all the addicts, not least the very sick and severely killed drug addicts. I also hope that the municipalities will provide housing for the homeless, among others. in the case of assistance from the House Bank. I have the impression that we're too afraid to go into the section of the track where the addicts are, to give advice, guidance, etc. The representative of Wickedness was concerned that the working party in the government position had not done anything. The drug notification was presented in 1997 and dealt with in the United Kingdom in May 1997, with many radical decisions. I think it's incredible that we can drive a party crane instead of helping those drug addicts. We have to be open to change our treatment arrangements, our strategy, at any time. Yesterday's answer may not be the solution to tomorrow's problems. The majority decided in May 1997 that we should receive a nationwide provision for methadone-assisted treatment. Such an offer has not been launched to operate throughout the country. We have long waiting lists of people waiting for methadone-assisted treatment – over 300 just in Oslo. Our heavy abusers do not have time to wait one or more years for such an offer; they need help as soon as possible. As an immediate measure, the Workers' Party proposes that the Government initiate treatment with Subutex for the heavy addicts awaiting methadone-assisted treatment. Recently, there has been a discussion about setting up injection rooms in Oslo. Although this is a difficult question, I am pleased that the Labour Party has proposed asking the Government to investigate the establishment of injection rooms staffed by health professionals. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has also tabled a proposal, No. 13, which I think is very good, and I would recommend that we give our support to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e857	The number of overdose deaths was 134 in Oslo in 1998. Seven people are rescued every day from overdose death in Oslo. It is likely that drugrelated deaths have now passed 250 per year. years on a country-by-country basis. This tells us about a dramatic situation, and we have to ask: are public authorities, auxiliaries and organisations too passive? This reality tells us that much is not good enough in the response chain. It was claimed by the competent team that approx. 50 pst. by those who die of overdose are completely unknown to the auxiliaries and the police. This is scary. This is extremely serious. And once again, I have to ask the question: is it that the threshold of auxiliaries is too high for most people? The answer is obviously yes, and the consequence is that we need low-threshold services that meet those drug addicts where they are. This requires new attitudes, and this requires new actions. Prevention is of course the most important, but with reference to overdose rates, both the more than 2,000 who are rescued each year from overdose death only in Oslo, and the approximately 250 who die in Norway is about saving lives. For groups other than drug addicts, we don't make any effort to save lives. When the Workers' Party is promoting a number of proposals today, it is precisely with the background of the reality we are now seeing. Helping drug addicts must also be a health challenge, and we must no longer regard these as hopeless social cases. We need to assess the possibility and consequences of setting up injection rooms. We need to give those drug addicts access to clean syringes to prevent infection, for example. hepatitis and HIV. We have to get away from the shelters as almost the only accommodation, and the municipalities have to be held responsible for getting good housing. We must reap from the experience of other countries. We must consider drug use as a real alternative to crime and death. We need to extend methadone projects in combination with decent housing and close professional follow-up, and we cannot offer those who are waiting to join the methadone programmes, a continuing life of abuse and crime, when drug treatment could help. Although prevention is the most important, it does not help those who are already dependent.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e883	The debate and reality show that something is ripping wrong in the treatment of drug addicts. I agree with the SV representative that all parties have failed in their responsibility in drug care, and I am very happy that my own party is now thinking new. In any other area of society with so many deaths among young people, politicians and health and social services would stand on their heads to save them. It hasn't happened. Why hasn't that happened? Don't they have the right of life? Isn't it worth trying to save them? Have we given up? We all have a responsibility, as I said. And the cheapest thing is to let the deaths happen. There is nothing new about criticism of drug treatment, and we have seen that it has not worked. Overdose has become more extensive, but there is nothing new. How many parents and siblings wonder if the son, brother, or sister will survive the next shot? The interpellant wondered if the aid measures have failed. It is strongly up to the head of the Social Committee to ask that question, and the worst thing — when we see the figures — is that he is right. I'm going to give an example: a short time ago, someone I knew was trying to get into the emergency room at Ullevål Hospital. He had been waiting for two months. Then he comes in, and he gets abstinence, gets a little crazy, writes out again the next day and walks out of the emergency at Ullevål. One does not need much to do with this in order to understand that there must be some coercive measures in this type of treatment. When a volunteer enrolls, a volunteer must also be able to say that a person must have some coercive measures right in the worst phase. Then there are two new months, waiting and hoping to get in – if he lives. This is about people who have disappointed the family, disappointed themselves, disappointed all those who have believed in them and helped them up. Then maybe the overdose becomes one way out of it, because they don't see any other way out. In this case, he was to be detoxified with people who were on methadone. Some are quite trembling and others are high up there, and then it simply doesn't seem to be broken. We need to meet motivated drug users in a completely different way in the treatment system. Then I want to say that there's a lot of work done in Oslo. But I think all the parties here have to take inward that it's not done enough, and that might not be the right thing to do. 500 million. kr to Oslo, it is probably for the whole care of the cattle. In short, I would like to say about injection rooms: it is not about going the way; it is one of many measures we will take, and as I think the majority of the Storting should – and I hope – be involved in trying out, to prevent more overdose deaths.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e900	First of all, I would like to say that the proposals from the Progress Party will be submitted to the Committee, like what has now been proposed for the proposal from the Labour Party. Governments said there's a lot of disagreement in the trade unions. Yes, I've registered it. But that disunity is found in those who have only the ideology that drug abuse is to be controlled and lead to drug freedom. There are prominent, very important professionals far up in the system that are holding back and holding back, and have been doing so for years. I can mention the Stadtestadklinik in Skien, where we have a responsible superior who is pronounced opponents of methadone treatment, and who, of course, uses his influence in such a way as is necessary. I simply cannot accept this, Minister of Social Affairs! I am pleased that this debate has shown so far that there is now greater consensus in the political environment than it is in the professional environments. On behalf of those drug injectors, I am very pleased with that. Because it's all about saving lives, it's about giving these people a quality of life that you and I really appreciate, and that they don't have today. They have the exact opposite. Had I had time, I should have told you about many self-experienced situations in this city – where the brother goes away and dies after an overdose, where the sister has had problems over several years, has been hospitalized acutely on Ullevål several times, lying in a ventilator. But she hasn't gone on heroin long enough to get involved in the methadone project, and then she's too young! It must then be healthy to go in and provide help as early as possible, before the human being is completely degraded.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e909	I am pleased with the committee leader's initiative for this debate and also for the broad commitment that is in all parties to securing more heavy drug addicts' follow-up. There is no doubt that we need both to strengthen prevention, to see the relationship between alcohol and drug use and to strengthen treatment and follow-up of drug users. I'm impatient. I have, as I have been briefed on, increased efforts in 1999 and I am now waiting, including with impatience, for the recommendations of the working group. I know they're clear on March 1st with the first interim report, about the relationship between the supply, the number in places and the need that exists. I don't want it to be left that this is a group that doesn't know what this is all about. The leader and the secretary are both Hafile researchers, and there are otherwise members with experience in this field. Of course, they should also have close contact with the trade union council before the fight against drugs. For follow-up of tests with Subutex. Let me say there's an experiment in the ski. The Ministry has received an application for testing in Oslo. I would like to give an assessment of the extension of such procedures for a short treatment period. Immediately after my two-week study trip to France, I will take a look at how we can follow up with the State Health Authority and other agencies here. Let me stress that during this study trip there is also a visit to Frankfurt to find out about the experience of an injection room. Hill-Marta Solberg said on the Internet February 9th: ‘I know from my time as Minister of Social Affairs that the fight against drug problems is demanding and no one has yet launched the ‘perfect’ solution.’ I find that there is a broad consensus today that there is a need for a lack of supply to reach the most possible. It is also necessary to assess new measures, and this will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e923	So the debate is on case No. 2 o'clock. [[Fotation, see page 1968]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e937	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e946	A Document No has been promoted. Eight proposals from John I. Alvheim and Harald T. Nesvik to ask the Government to submit legislative proposals prohibiting the interception of male children who do not have medical reasons. As a background to the proposal, the proposers argue that for many years there has been a demand from religious and cultural communities in Norway for ritual circumcision of boys to be part of our health service. The cutting is preferably carried out immediately after birth. The proposers indicate that the cross-section of newborn boys is an intervention on healthy children, with the same pain limit as adults. No one is entitled to such an intervention by the public health service. The proposers argue that the cross-section of male children, as well as of baby cocksuckers, is contrary to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Norwegian health services have many unsolved tasks, and there is a long waiting time for treatment. In this context, the proposers consider that priority should be given to prohibiting the cross-over of male children without medical reasons. It opens up the possibility for private enterprises to carry out the intervention. The rapporteur would point out that this is not consistent with a total ban. The Committee has held consultations in which the Norwegian Medical Association, the Mosaic Religious Society and the Islamic Council of Norway have promoted their views. There were strong reactions to a total ban. This may be the reason why the proposers have changed their original proposal to prohibit the public health sector from reversing male children without medical reasons. The majority of the Committee, all parties except the Party of Advancement, indicates that the ritual circumcision of boys is a cultural and religious tradition practiced by Jews and Muslims for a long time. No democratic country has a ban on the ritual circumcision of boys. The majority point out that the cross-section of boys and girls is not comparable in any way. Female genital mutilation is internationally defined as a violation of women’s human rights. An overall increase was said in the treatment of Ot.prp. No 50 for 1994-95 a clear no to such a practice. Resources used for these interventions in public health care are intended for one to two weekly work for doctors and the equivalent for childcare/caregiver. The Mosaic Religion has its own specialists to do this ritual act. The Minister for Health, in a letter dated 7 January 1999, announced that he would ask the State Health Authority to clarify the medical issues and that the Department would assess the ethical, legal and economic aspects of the case. It is important to clarify the issue of higher self-esteem, medical reservation rights, the priorities to be set and the continued use of public health. The majority of the Committee considers that current practice should continue until the Minister for Health comes back with new assessments. On behalf of the majority, all parties except the Advancement Party, I take up the majority proposal, the position of the Committee, and recommend that the Storting should reject Document No. The 8th proposal. In the last minute, I want to argue for the majority proposal. It would have been unheard of about Norway as the first democratic country in the world would be in favour of a general ban. The UN Children’s Convention says that a person should abolish traditional practices that could harm children’s health. As rapporteur of the case, I have examined books and the Internet and found that no one has been able to document any lasting damage. Some claim that it has a positive effect on hygiene and gender, and that it reduces the risk of urinary tract infections and cancer. Most male children in the United States are circumcised, although the proportion is decreasing. Should it be banned by interception, I'm afraid it would at least have social consequences for the boys. Identity and sense of community are important to all of us. There is also a danger that the families would then seek out ignorant people, with the medical complications that this could lead to. Fortunately, a large majority would say no to the ban today. I am pleased with the will for respect and tolerance that is shown, so that everyone can live up to their cultural and religious traditions in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e977	Crossing boys is a religious tradition that has been practiced by Jews and Muslims for a long time. In our approach to cultural practices, we must base two relationships: firstly, tolerance and respect for other groups in the context of a multicultural society, and secondly, respect for the human rights of the individual. This balance sheet isn't always as simple, but it's along these dimensions that we have to consider the current question. For so far, arguments have been used against the cross-section of unsustainable boys. The first is that interventions consume considerable resources in the Norwegian health system. It has been shown not to vote; it is one to two weekly works per year. The second unsustainable argument is the comparison with the intersection of women. The size of the population has previously adopted a ban on female circumcision, as it is a matter of sexual mutilation affecting the lives of women in a degrading and health-threatening way. Crossing women is also considered an international violation of women’s human rights. Crossing boys is an intervention of completely different dimensions, which historically have only been banned in totalitarian societies. However, it is important to stress that there is an intervention on healthy people, an intervention that no one has a legal obligation to have carried out by the public health system. The working party has noticed that there are some doctors who think it is wrong to cross. Therefore, from the Workers' Party, we will support an assessment of the individual doctor's right of reservation. Following an overall assessment, the Labour Party considers that current practice should be continued pending clarification by the Ministry and the Health Authority of the medical, ethical, legal and economic aspects of the cross-over of boys. That investigation will hopefully provide the Stortinget with the information necessary for an overall assessment of the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e992	The majority of the social committee has rejected, in the present position, a proposal which has not been maintained by the proposers. By an incurrence, three words were omitted in the original Document No. the 8th proposal, namely the words «in public hospitals». The arguments put forward in Document No. 8:6 on the part of the proposers, it was also assumed that the cross-section of male children should not be a priority task for the public health service. During the examination of the Committee, the majority has chosen not to take a position on the amended proposal. I interpret it there, and it is also evident from the comments of the majority that today's practice of offering circumcision in public hospitals should continue until the Minister of Health may come back with the Ministry's new assessment, in the light of a clarification of the ethical, legal and medical aspects of the intervention itself that the Minister of Health has asked the State's Health Inspectorate to investigate. Cross-section of male children, i.e. surgical removal of parts of a healthy part of the body, priority shall be given to certain hospitals with maternity wards and shall be carried out on the first days of life after birth. Such priority is recommended by the State Health Authority in a letter to the Ministry, dated 30 December 1998 at the latest. Of course, I have a certain understanding, professionally speaking, that the intervention, whether it should be allowed in public hospitals, should occur immediately after birth – it gives at least trauma. However, it is worrying that this type of operational intervention, which is contrary to both moral and ethical standards in our society, should be given priority in a health care system with scarce resources and long waiting queues. In a letter to the Social Committee dated 7 January 1999, the Minister for Health stated, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘I can state that no one has a legal right to have an intervention as described by the public.’ For me, it is a great cross of thought that despite these statements by the Minister of Health, which are similar to the opinions of the State Health Authority, both the Health Authority and the Minister of Health will continue to allow public hospitals to carry out this medically unethical intervention. Representatives of the Norwegian Medical Association strongly abstained in their consultation with the Social Committee on 14 January that male circumcision is carried out by the Public Health Service. The Medical Association further requested, during the hearing, an absolute right of reservation for doctors in this type of public hospital intervention. Lastly, the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party have been included in a separate proposal, proposal No. 2, where it says: ‘The ruling is asked, if there is still an opportunity to circumcise male children in public hospitals without medical reasons, to grant full rights of reservation for doctors in the event of this type of intervention.’ I would be very surprised if the majority voted against this proposal. We then have a reasonable right of reservation for health professionals in other contexts in the healthcare system, for example in relation to abortion interventions. I don't think it's a good idea to force Norwegian doctors who are opposed to the procedure to perform this procedure. The members of the Social Committee of the Progress Party have, in their comments, been particularly concerned with medical ethics in this type of intervention on healthy people. Several Norwegian hospitals today say no to the intersection of boys. Professor Dr. with. Trond Markestad at Haukeland Hospital writes in Dagbladet on 4 January 1998 the following: ‘In Norway it has been read and decided that the ritual circumcision of women is an abomination. But basically, there's no difference in the intersection of girls and boys even though the intervention of course has much greater consequences for the girls. In both cases, it concerns the surgical removal of a part of the body without any medical justification. On the contrary, serious complications have been reported after male circumcision, and I have even seen ugly examples of this as a pediatrician in the United States and Canada. And perhaps even more important, we know today that newborns have the same pain experience as later in life, and that circumcision causes significant pain for many days even if the procedure is performed in local anaesthetic." Very many hospital doctors agree with Professor Dr. Trond Markestad, but unfortunately it does not seem that the majority of the Social Committee agrees with the professor. The majority write in their comments, for example: the following: ‘The majority believe that current practice should continue until the Minister of Health comes back with the Ministry’s assessments.’ I allow myself to ask the representatives of the majority: do not the representatives of the majority have an independent opinion on this problem? Do you always have to push the Minister of Health in front of you before you are able to take an independent position? The majority point out that the public costs of today's interception are minimal. Yes, today costs are minimal, but that is not the most important thing for the Progress Party. For the Progress Party, it is important not to use public resources at all in a need for health care for unprioritized, even unethical forms of treatment. The private health service can take on this task, paid by the patients. Nor does it conflict with cultural and religious issues, which seem to have been a decisive factor for the majority to oppose this proposal. Circumcision of boys is an assault on defenseless children. No one can deny it. The children have no opportunity to consent; they have no opportunity to protest. The intervention, the infringement, is carried out at the request of the parents. So what I'm asking is, how far is the parental right going to go with the children? I refer to the proposals from the Progress Party, which is included in the vote. So, finally, some brief comments to the rapporteur's claim that no serious damage has been or has not occurred. The representatives of the Medical Association, in meeting with the Social Committee, showed an example, even on film, of very serious complications for a child who had completed this operation and will be disabled as long as it lives. Women's dignity and human rights have already been mentioned by several speakers. Yes, it is well and good, but does not man also have a certain claim on human dignity and human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1041	John I. Alvheim has addressed the suggestions to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1044	Sometimes it is a big challenge to listen to the representative Alvheim. He comes here with horror examples on the other side, and it could be that it's the doctor who hasn't done a real job. In fact, more techniques are used, and it is not always that the most gentle one is used. Both in its original proposal, in its observations and in its submissions, the Progress Party has referred to the article of Professor Trond Markstad in the daily newspaper of 4 January 1998 and used his opinions in its argument against a ban. In a conversation with Professor Markestad today early he stressed that he is not a follower of any law against circumcision, nor in the public health sector. What he stressed, however, was that it should not be a priority task for public health. The proposal by the representatives of Alvheim and Nesvik to ask the Government to submit a legislative proposal prohibiting the cross-section of male children for non-medical reasons has been rejected by the Committee. The rapporteurs are also opposed to their own proposal. The Party has changed its position from a total ban to a ban on public health only. One argument is that from a resource perspective, it is wrong to spend time and money on treating healthy people. In the view of the Progress Party, a legislative proposal is needed to prohibit such an intervention. Right doesn't agree. It's very special. Should any low/non-priority health services be prohibited? Or is it just this offer The Progress Party believes deserves a law ban? If, in this case, as in most other health services, we follow the pay II committee's proposal on health care priorities, it would be more than enough. I agree that there is reason to warn against a general morbidity in our society. But I don't think it's as relevant as a thousand-year religious practice, which is the crossbreeding of boys. I am also not sure that is what is the problem and the idea behind the ban line of the Progress Party, but rather a belief that it is right to protect the Norwegian society from so-called foreign religious and cultural influence. Ritual circumcision of boys is a cultural practice and a religious tradition practiced by Jews and Muslims. This intervention cannot in any way be compared to the intersection of women, as the Progress Party does. The Social Committee said during the examination of Ot.prp. No 50 for 1994-95 on the prohibition of genital mutilation clearly rejects cultural practices affecting women in a degrading and health-threatening way. This is a violation of women's human rights. Right-wing respects the desire of Jews and Muslims to maintain their traditions in Norwegian society, traditions that they share in giving a cultural and religious identity. It's about showing tolerance to people with a different religious and cultural background. However, there is an intervention of healthy children in the rites of boys, and no one has a legal claim to have such an intervention carried out by the Norwegian health service. This applies to a relatively small number of persons, and the burden of resources on hospitals as a result of the intervention is marginal. In Aker Hospital, which has most interventions, this type of intervention involves between one and two weekly works each year. Cropping has such a cultural and religious anchoring in the minorities concerned that the consequences of a ban will be that the intervention could be more likely to be carried out by incompetent personnel, at the risk it may entail for the child. The Mosaic Religion does not take advantage of public health at the time of circumcision, but has its own specialists doing this ritual. As a matter of principle, such an intervention may also take place at private clinics. The right considers that there should nevertheless be an offer in public health because it is a medical advantage that the intervention is carried out in relation to birth and because the healthcare system has a medical competence and experience. After we have been informed from Aker Hospital, it happens outpatient within 14 days. If cross-cutting is to become an integral part of public health, the question is how to prioritise this intervention in relation to other tasks. Since such an intervention, following the recommendations of the Pay II Committee, does not fall within the priority tasks to be offered or financed by public health services, it is reasonable that the costs of such an intervention should be borne by the parents. This is fully in line with the previous opinion of the Right in relation to non-priority public health tasks. I refer in this connection to the treatment of the health message and Innst. S. No 165 for 1994-95. The right assumed that childlessness is not a disease. The right said, among other things: that with increasingly improved treatment provision there is an increasing demand for help from childlessness, and that such assistance should be part of the overall health supply. The Wage II Committee proposed that this offer be given low priority in the allocation of public resources. However, the right considered that the expertise in assisted fertilisation built up under the public authority still needs to be developed. We showed that the treatment offered to the childless is both public and private, and that self-payment varies greatly. Furthermore, we said that when offering assisted fertilisation in public hospitals, the excess should increase and cover the actual costs of the treatment. It's the same reason that lies in our position on the cost of interception, that they should be covered by those who want this intervention done. Research may indicate that there is no medical justification for prioritising such an intervention, but tolerance must be shown to people with other traditions and another religion. Many doctors believe that it is wrong to intersect because it is an intervention on healthy people. Therefore, there is reason to consider whether the doctors should be able to reserve themselves against doing the interception. In Norway, for example, we have a statutory right of reservation for health professionals who wish to refrain from participating in provoked abortion interventions. It is possible that it may be appropriate to consider whether health professionals who wish to refrain from participating in the cross-over of non-medically motivated boys should be allowed to do so. Such a right could exempt health professionals from any action contrary to their professional and value-based beliefs. In conclusion, I would like to point out that in a letter to Health Minister Højbräten, the State Health Authority recommends that the proposal be assessed on the basis of the ethical, medical and economic aspects of the case. In his letter of 7 January 1999 to the Social Committee, the Council of State writes that he will ask the State Health Authority to clarify these issues. It supports the Right. As part of the majority, therefore, when it comes to the question of using the public health system to carry out ritual circumcision of male children, we would expect the Minister of Health to come back to the Stortingen on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1085	The proposer himself stated that the matter we are now dealing with concerns a proposal that is no longer the original proposal. And when one here is discussing resource use, maybe one should also ask the following questions in this room: How much resources are we going to spend on this matter? I'm a little worried that the case has got such dimensions, which includes: The committee chairman and proposer Alvheim contributed by providing a relatively negative and frightening representation of this with the cross-section of boys. When you are so concerned about resource use here, I think that someone who makes a proposal should be satisfied that the State Health Authority is going to clarify the medical issues and that the Department will then assess the ethical, legal and economic aspects of this issue. It is a relatively rational, thorough and good process, I think. And when the representative Alvheim says that the majority, most of them, in the Committee pushes the Minister of Health in front of him and does not take responsibility for himself, I think it's a pretty interesting observation, when I belong to the constellation that makes up this government, which has a weak parliamentary basis, but which nevertheless puts their trust in the Minister of Health. And I'm relatively comfortable that one should do it the way it's now suggested. I also want to distance myself from Alvheim's production of female circumcision, which we all here in this room have chosen to call sexual mutilation of women, cf. The use of words by the World Health Organisation in this context. We've taken a distance from it, and then it's not going to be possible to compare it to the cross-section of boys. It's possible to produce this very negatively, but it's also possible to put it in the context where it belongs, where you, among other things. will see that in Aker and Ullevål hospitals a combined use is made of one to two week’s work for doctors and something similar in time for child nurses, nurses, on these interventions per year. years. It's a relatively modest time use in our healthcare system. I think one should be able to await the assessment that the State Health Authority is going to make, and what the Ministry of the Council of State will present after that. I also think there is reason to stress that the ritual circumcision of boys is an intervention on healthy children, and that no one therefore has any legal claim to have such an intervention carried out by the public health service. We will take a concrete decision on how to deal with this when we get the matter back. As regards the right of reservation, we will deal with that matter when we get that far. One opinion from the representative Alvheim I would like to put a question mark on. The representative referred to the attitude that I and others have, and I think he put it this way: today the economic resources used are, minimally, yes, today they are minimal, said Alvheim. What does the representative Alvheim put in that comment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1096	John Alvheim said in his speech that circumcision is an assault on defenseless children. I stood a few days ago in a bus stop. There I saw a youth who had a stick that stuck out through the lower lip, and all the time he used his tongue to move this stick. It looked pretty disgusting. Next to him was a stranger who had six, seven, maybe eight, rings through one of his ears. In addition, she had a pretty big ring right through her nose, as you could see in African countries before, but which is now more and more visible in Norway. In addition – in the same bus stop – there was a quite young mother with her child, there was a girl in three-four years. The little girl had earplugs in both her ears; she had holes in her ears. I thought of all this that it must then be unreasonable, it may not be wise to have such things around in the face. We've also heard of people who have actually stabbed metal sticks through their tongue and who have died. But I didn't think we'd get a ban on it. I thought that some parents are doing things that I as a father would not have done in relation to my children. When I mention these examples, it's because in this society there should have been other areas than this one with intersection where one should somehow drop a ban, if one were to follow the thinking of the Progress Party. But there is no other democratic country that has a ban here. It's interesting when you look at this historically in relation to the crossbreeding of boys. Many people may dislike it, and there are also people in my own party who would say, Can it make sense to remove the foreskin? No, we can disapprove it from our cultural point of view and from the background we have. The question is whether it should be banned. So, as far as I know, you've had that in two countries in the history of the world. Stalin was given a ban on circumcision in the Soviet Union, and Hitler got to do the same in Germany. So we will have a proposal from the Progress Party here today that we should have the same thing in Norway. It is claimed that you are cowardly when sending the proposal back to the ministry for evaluation. A majority clearly opposes a ban. Of course, it has nothing to do with cowardice, it has to do with what kind of society we're going to create in Norway. What kind of communities do we want to live in? The party was formed on the basis that public regulations and restrictions were to be removed where detailed management goes beyond the individual and hinders its freedom. So now you see a progress party that's at full speed towards the totalitarian state, where it's just the individual that's to be governed, and it's with the hard hand of someone who disagrees with the culture that they belong to, or the desires that they may have. The rapporteur says that such interventions have been carried out for several decades. I assume it was a delay, because this has been done for thousands of years. Jesus was circumcised, and John F. Kennedy was circumcised. Here you are concerned about sexual activity and how this can affect people as they grow up and reach adulthood. But, as I say, John F. Kennedy was also circumcised. I hope that we will be saved for this kind of debate, and that we will not waste more time in the staging room on the proposal of a party like Carl I. Hagen says has thought through Document No. Eight proposals. This proposal is very little thought, because first you justify why it should not be a ban within the public, but in the private, and then it becomes a total ban. So John Alvheim says that it was really just a typo, because you had forgotten a few words. But in the center debate that I was in with John Alvheim, he asserted knowingly that this was not only a ban on children, but also for adults who wanted to remove their foreskin. They shouldn't be allowed to do that either. In addition, it is said that it is the Muslims, the immigrants, the foreigners who represent a problem, but then afterwards, after the proposal has been delivered, it is discovered to its great dismay that even the Jews are actually circumcised, so that in retrospect one must make sure that the Progress Party has always been a hot supporter for the State of Israel. This proposal must be some of the least thought that has been delivered in the last year, at least of what I have seen. If Carl I. Hagen should dry to lift that flag where he claims that Document No. The 8-proposals from the Progress Party are carefully thought out, and he must at least start calling his group on the carpet and take a closer look at what is delivered, before he can go out and claim it again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1117	I am pleased that the proposers and the Progress Party have thought and gone back on their original proposal to ban the cross-section of male children in Norway. But I'm shocked that the Progress Party in its argument equates the intersection of boys and girls. Circumcision of girls is sexual mutilation and leads to major injuries, while the cross-section of male babies is a simple procedure without adverse effects. I think it is sad that the Progress Party maintains its position by prohibiting this intervention in public hospitals. And I'm shocked that Alvheim in his post calls the intervention unethical. As I see it, such an attitude is clearly discriminatory towards large parts of our population, while such a ban would affect our constitutional right to free religious practice. Such a ban would also have an impact on the practice developed in Norway over many years in this area, for the transfiguration of Jewish boys has been carried out in Norway as long as it has lived Jews in this country, and as we have been given Muslim beliefs, the number of people who want to cross children has increased. However, according to the Health Inspectorate, it is still only one – two weekly shifts in a year, and in relation to the work done in the health care system, it is debatable. We have to take inwards that we live in a multicultural society. We must live by what we have said about freedom of religion. It is part of our democratic heritage, and we should not undermine our democracy and our democratic values by discriminatory decisions. We have to take it inward that for some, the crossbreeding of boys is part of a religious act, a decree and part of one's identity. Cropping is an inevitable requirement in some religions. One religion to which this applies is Judaism, where intersection is perceived as a pact sign, a pact conclusion described in 1. Genesis chapter. 17, verses 9 - 14, and it dates to approx. 1800 B.C.E. The second religion where circumcision is an inevitable requirement is Islam, which was created by Muhammad in the first half of the 7th century AD. In Islam, the interception is justified by the requirement of purity. A boy or a man who is not circumcised is to regard as unclean and thus cut off from worshiping Allah. But the intervention is also mentioned in the New Testament, in Luke chapter. 2, verse 21, in connection with the intersection of Jesus. In several Christian environments, such as: In the United States, intersections are also common. We who do not live by the faith attached to these religious orders may find it difficult to understand the meaning of a ban and what moral dilemmas it would have created for large parts of our population if this ban were to be adopted. I am therefore pleased that the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, rejects the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1129	Crossing boys is both alien and a little scary for us who don't have culture for it. We have therefore studied the subject carefully after considering this proposal. The proposers have amended their original proposal and the majority have rejected it. Nevertheless, the government is asked to come back with the matter in an appropriate way. In the meantime, the intervention shall be as in previous practice. In the hearings we have had in the committee, some doctors have found that they want to reserve themselves against doing the procedure. It is necessary to have an assessment of this as well. Crossing boys' children is practiced in many ethnic groups in Africa, Asia, America and the South Sea. The layer has been known for millennia and has been practiced with different reasons at different times. While most of us have linked the intersection of boys with Jewish and Muslim faith and tradition, for some people it has been linked to rites in the transition from children to adults. In some peoples it is of social and even aesthetic importance, while for others it is linked to religion and tradition. The Americans conducted the procedure as a routine for years, with medical and hygienic reasons. This is what doubts have arisen in recent years, and various reports are partly contradictory in their correctness. Others will again raise questions as to whether it is right to expose a healthy child to such an intervention, when the child himself is too small to prevent it. This is undoubtedly the responsibility of parents, and they are bound by faith, tradition and care for the child, which they will have to be accepted and treated in the same way as others in their environment. A down-priority can have unfortunate consequences. If the offer is not available in public health, we may risk unskilled people carrying out the procedure, with the unfortunate consequences it could have. It is important that people's greetings are followed up from cradle to grave. A good offer is health centres, where parents take their children with them for health follow-up. The prohibition of male child circumcision may also have adverse consequences for this important health follow-up, if the children are kept away to conceal such an intervention. Therefore, it is important that there is a safe offer, and then the Ministry will have to assess the pages that have emerged and have been pointed out during the examination of the case and that are contained in the document.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1150	The following representatives shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1153	First of all, I would like to quote from Document No. 8:6 for 1998-99, because, after hearing the debate here today, it is clear that some have either not been willing or have not been able to read what is in the document. It says: ‘Crossing is not a treatment for a disorder or a physical disability and should therefore not be a priority within the Norwegian health system today. It should be the task of the Norwegian healthcare system to ensure that human suffering is reduced and that patients with a sunscreen right to receive treatment are given priority. Where capacity is available in private activities, they may give priority, where appropriate, to such intervention by reference to it and the financial consequences thereof.’;» In other words, the proposal refers to a ban on public health. If you're going to do this kind of religious act, you're going to get paid for it yourself. The amendments to the proposal have been referred to by Mr Alvheim. So to Britt Hildeng, who obviously could not have been present in the same committee as me, at least not at the hearing of this proposal, to the representative Hildeng so knowing that there are no complications in the intersection of boys. If the representative Hildeng had been present at that hearing, which she could not possibly have been, she would have been presented with the same series of images as the committee received, and heard the same observation from the Medical Association that there may be late complications, that there are bleedings that could lead to serious suffering later in life. It is therefore quite clear that the representative Hildeng could not have been present where I was. So a little bit to the representative Ballo, who went on with his familiar arguments that this is the fear of foreign religions, of what is involved in immigration. He showed, among other things: for piercing. But if you read Document No. 8:6 is seen to be a prohibition in public health. If you use piercing, you run holes in the ears of your children, you pay for it yourself. Some can also show that it doesn't look very nice when people run around with their faces full of rings and buttons here and there. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1167	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 1969]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1180	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1187	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Bendiks H. Arnesen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 2, by John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 3, from Einar Olav Skogholt on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Right and the Socialist Left Party. The President noted that proposal No. 3 has been amended by the proposer. The amendment consists of the last part of the proposal, after point, being replaced by the following: ‘added to one of our colleges’. Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 are included in the adjustment, while proposal No. 3 is distributed in the hall. The President proposes that there should be a vote first on the proposal of the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left, then on the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, then on the proposal of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Right and the Socialist Left, and finally on the vote. – No objections have been raised to this, and this is how it will be done. Mr Glötvold has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1212	I recommend the centre parties to support proposal No. 3, by Einar Olav Skogholt, with the change that the proposer himself has presented in the meeting today. In addition, I would recommend that the same parties support the majority proposals for Decisions I and III.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1219	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote. Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to remove the excess for the acquisition of hearing aids.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1235	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to assess the introduction of guidelines on the quality and quantity of special transport services.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1249	Proposal No. 3, from the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Socialist Left Party, are addressed to voting. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the establishment of an IT training offer, including housing and services for the severely disabled, added to one of our colleges.’ The central parties have announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1281	Here the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1306	In the course of the debate, 13 proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1-10, from the Gunhild Eyering on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 11-13, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to facilitate the local organisation of prevention activities more cross-border, with cooperation between the school health service, police, school, PP service and child protection.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the school health service is given a more central role in the prevention and social work of children and young people, including through the development of parental competence.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to provide methadone-assisted treatment nationwide.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to initiate treatment with Subutex for the heavy abusers awaiting methadone-assisted treatment.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that municipalities carry out monitoring of heavy abusers and to draw up action plans.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of outreach health teams and low-threshold health services for drug users in larger cities.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asked for the establishment of a ‘spray room’ staffed by health professionals.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the entry of local staff into the course of overdose-related first aid.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to organise work on overdose deaths in line with the organisation of work on epidemic-like death-related conditions.’ Proposal No. 10: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the creation of special book collectives for vulnerable groups.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider placing the primary responsibility for action against overdose deaths among drug users on the Health Department of the Ministry.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks that the preparation of Buprenorphine be authorised by a specialist in psychiatry and internal medicine for the treatment of drug addicts.’ [[Subutex]] Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government, in cooperation with the Council of the Russian Federation in Norway, is asked to develop a new model to review capacity and the need for treatment provision in accordance with newer and modern treatment principles.’ The proposers have asked for the proposals to be forwarded to the Social Committee for further consideration. The President will therefore propose that the proposals No. 1-10, from the Workers' Party, and No. 11-13, from the Progress Party, is forwarded to the Social Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1387	Honored President! To the voting order.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1394	Annelise Høegh is given the floor to the voting order.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1397	Not many months have passed since representatives of the Workers' Party were very concerned that the Stortinget had to decide on a number of concrete proposals after interpellation debates. In this way, I hope it does not imply a new practice to promote so many concrete proposals for direct decisions here in the Chamber. The proposers have now proposed that the proposals should be sent to the Committee instead. It makes it a little bit better, but not much better. I see this as an easy way to avoid having to create a Document No. 8 proposals, because it should have been done by the proposers if they consider that there is reason to change the essential aspects of drug policy. We do not want to oppose the proposals being sent to the Committee, but I hope, as I said, that the Committee may agree that they are forwarded to the Government, because more than one sentence or two is needed in some of these areas that signify a new regime.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1404	I want to join in what Annelise Hoegh says. It's about 13 proposals. These are, in part, proposals previously adopted by the Storting, and these are also proposals which are incomprehensible, at least to me, and which have not been further clarified in the debate. It seems quite clear that the proposals provide a delicate basis for committee discussion, but at least they provide no basis for voting, so I will agree that it is better to have them sent to the committee than to discuss them now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1411	The President considers that, in relation to Annelise Höegh's contribution, it is necessary to clarify that it is, of course, up to the Social Committee itself to choose how to deal with these proposals. We do not take a position on that at this meeting. The President then proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Social Committee. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1419	During the debate, Mr Alvheim put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring forward legislative proposals prohibiting public health services from crossing male children without medical reasons.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The ruling is asked, if there is still an opportunity to circumcise male children in public hospitals without medical reasons, to grant full rights of reservation for doctors in the event of this type of intervention.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-16.ana.ud391e1437	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, up to voting.
