ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e65	The representatives Grete Knudsen, Haakon Blankenborg, Day Danielsen, Brother Yngve Rahm, Morten Lund and Siri Frost Sterri, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Terje Søviknes, has taken the seat. The request for leave is submitted by the Right-wing Group to representatives Bjørn Hernæs and Svein Ludvigsen from 16 December to 21 December – both to participate as observers in the parliamentary elections in Russia. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Hedmark County: Magnhild Offset For Troms County: Elisabeth Aspaker3. Elisabeth Aspaker is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Svein Ludvigsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e122	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e127	I suggest Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e132	Asmund Kristoffersen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. On the agenda today, the President has announced that there will be a vote on case No. 1 and then the total number of cases. 2-6. However, the President will suggest that we do not go forward like this, but instead we take overall voting on all the issues at the end of the day. – There are no protests against it, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e148	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Progress Party and Right 15 minutes each, Christian People's Party 20 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Left and Representative Mikalsen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each party group, and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e159	We're not yet satisfied with the education budget, but we're saying, like Norwegian Teachers' Team, that it's a step in the right direction, because we've stopped a negative development of minus 328 million. kr in the last year's budget, as well as a reduction in the municipal budget. Both of these are now turned in a more positive direction. That is necessary, and this effort must continue to speed up. It's when we're challenged that society's attitude comes to light. Norway is not a good society if not all children have a safe childhood and a good schooling. Norway is not a good country if a sick person does not receive satisfactory health care. Norway is not a good society if not every person at the harvest gets a pension and a care that allows a good life. Human childhood, schooling and old age have always manifested the inequalities of society. Norway’s development into a welfare state is in many ways the development of a modern common public sector. The typical Norwegian feature is that the basic services are used by all. In our hospitals, both the stockbroker and the carpenter get help, and in the community school, all the kids meet. With an attractive municipal school open to pedagogical diversity, we will be better equipped to meet the trends of increased segregation in society. Equality, openness and understanding go hand in hand. Therefore, the main provision of welfare policy must also be to give priority to activities ahead of contributions. The need for municipal services will increase in the future. Several older people need care, and the need for knowledge and pedagogics is likely to heighten the demands for school interventions. Many municipalities have major problems. Several have a smaller population base than before, which in turn leads to less tax revenue. In this context, it is important that impact assessments on the impact of this on all establishments should be carried out on a continuous basis. The trend today on the school front is that primary schools are laid down, and instead private schools are established that obviously do not have the same economic pressure on them. This clearly shows that something is wrong, it's just so sad that the government here is passive. The budget agreement strengthened the revenues of municipalities. We have to be like this in the years that are coming, that the municipalities are being given additional funding, and that these are being used directly for measures to strengthen school and care. When it is these areas that create different relationships between municipalities and thus increase inequalities between people, it is natural that they also get the big headlines, and they clearly show which areas need to be strengthened. I do not believe in any way that the state should govern the municipalities in detail, but it does not prevent the possibility of formulating a common school and care policy. Furthermore, it is gratifying that, as the setting shows, there is agreement between the Workers' Party, the Government Parties and the SV on the direction of education policy. Here, as before, the Right Party and the Advance Party are isolated, except that those of the other parties say that it is important to raise the status and pay of the teachers. But also here it seems that the right parties are isolated when in a school that is largely based on community, which in turn requires teamwork between teachers, they bring in more individual-based wages. However, the Stortinget will have a good opportunity to discuss this and other issues related to teacher recruitment, but already the Workers' Party will signal that we will continue to work to improve the daily lives of students and teachers by providing the classes with larger teaching resources. This will allow even more flexible and individualised training. In addition, grants from local government budgets must continue to increase in order to be part of the work of a better school. And state and municipality must be part of a partnership to build up our school buildings, where an important basis is laid for our children and grandchildren to be useful to people. What did not come out clearly in a loud election campaign is that when the unit school tank and the equality idea are still to be the bearer, this cannot be done in cooperation with the right parties. In this way it becomes interesting to follow the government's work in education in the future, if they actually also in this field it is possible to throw themselves aside from one budgetary year to the next. As well as State Council and party leader Enoxsen as Finance Minister Gudmund Restad states that it is not possible to achieve a fair distribution without cooperation with the Workers' Party. I agree with that. And in a knowledge-based society, there is hardly any other area where distribution policy means so much to children's later opportunities than kindergartens and schools. The political job is demanding. Most people feel better, demand more of the social services, and the idea of solidarity is much weaker. At the same time, the idea of integration has become much more challenging when both disabled and multicultural groups need to have their legitimate training on their own premises in the same school community. Then it is not right to start discussing a segregation again, it is necessary to provide the labour force and the assistance needed to ensure the principle of adapted training, and to introduce the provision of education differently, so that there is really equal opportunities both for knowledge and for personal development. With concrete content, where hand and spirit pedagogics meet in a working school principle, opportunities for differentiation and different organisation will be easier to achieve. That is, in a digitized everyday life with children and young people growing up in a visual everyday life, we must stop talking about general knowledge versus practical knowledge, hand work versus spirit work, manual work versus intellectual work. To date, this breakdown has shaped key issues in the school. The messages and settings we have discussed several times in recent years, both Reform 94 and the recent 6-year reform, both from the time of the Bondevik government and the former workers' party governments, establish that these two different learning traditions are to be met. These are not new issues. The contradictions between group work, catechism, real school, secondary school have created many debates over the years, but fortunately it now appears, even in the research world, that concepts such as experience learning and responsibility for own learning are given much more attention. It can help us to make a better match between realities and ideals. It's like it tends to be when we discuss these issues, that the right parties literally bit themselves into the catheter and concept of education, instead of participating in a debate with a much more active attitude to an active learning process. When the goal is more than to take over the teacher's actions or to receive the teacher's assessments, the pedagogics of the future need to find their practical design within the framework of the following: dialogue, learning through questions and reflection, processing and evaluation, interaction, problem solving and project learning. The teacher then becomes a conductor who facilitates the relationship between the musician and the musical instrument, a jam session so to speak, between the student and the job, with the teacher as the leader of the students' learning. – So far about the teacher’s more or less sweet life, which we get to come back to. One of the main problems in the expansion of the education society has been the right to higher education. The choice of a young person at the age of 15 between vocational and general education has led to the right to take higher education. Access for students with a professional background has been restricted. This has been a controversial political issue in the last 30 years. The reform of continuing training has again put these issues on the agenda. Now, fortunately, we have passed a number of obstacles. The size decided in January this year to set up a system that gives adults the right to demonstrate their real competence without having to walk the path of testing schemes. Conditions have now been set up to develop a system in which a world of real competence is valued, as it is valued in the labour market and now in education. The fact that a majority has ensured a shortening of study time when one has a long history of practice underpins the fact that this development can no longer be reversed. It also speaks to the Government’s advantage that they have now announced a proposition that gives all adults the same legal right to secondary education as 16- to 19-year-olds. Then the long struggle of the labour movement will be crowned with luck. Similarly, we see the decision that will be taken later today, which will grant the study organisations the right to an examination during a transitional period. It will ensure that all those who have informed that they want advanced training are able to get it without too long waiting. Education, knowledge and experience will, in the future, be even higher than at present the main competitive advantage of each individual in the labour market. Without education there is a greater risk of being weak in the knowledge society. Therefore, our education policy must be permeated by a genuine willingness to provide educational opportunities for as many as possible. This gives real prerequisites for personal development, thus contributing to the cultural development of society as a whole. Finally, I would like to point out that a joint committee believes that the government has to clean up the art colleges. We will have our own case on this for the spring – i.e. for the financial year 2000. With this I will recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e201	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e204	Of course, it is up to parents to ensure that children and young people have adequate skills in order, conduct and respect for the lives and property of others. However, a growing proportion of parents seem to be short in this area. In addition, the school, which was supposed to help parents in this field, is unable to help. Daily we see newspaper headlines about assault, violence, fighting, etc. This disturbs the school situation and causes many children to become nervous, perhaps directly afraid to go to school. This also means that the students do not get the necessary rest. In the light of the Progress Party, we must now take action to prevent undesirable behaviour and to prevent situations that appear to spread rapidly on a national basis. We have therefore made proposals to increase the use of criminal justice, retrial and expulsion in cases of fighting, vandalism, violence, etc. In addition, we have made a proposal to have respect for life, health, property and behaviour of others and respect for teachers and participate in the agenda in a real way already in the elementary school childhood. I assume that the Workers' Party has also recorded these regrettable trends in our society and in school. However, it appears that these conditions are almost totally absent from the comments and proposals promoted by the party, and in the beginning of the committee leader's debate. The working party seems to be much more concerned with the relatively few private schools we have, and by refusing teachers to get an individual wage fixing, than with violence, unrest, bullying, etc. at school. My question is: why does the party not take these issues seriously and promote proposals that can solve the problems? If you do not have a solution yourself, I would recommend the options of the Progress Party as excellent proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e215	Everyone is taking seriously the concerns that exist both at primary and secondary level, but we probably very much disagree on how to solve the problems. I think it's a very short-term policy to place those who, for one reason or another, have an outrageous behavior, in their own schools and interventions. I think it's very short-sighted of society if someone comes into the situation that they can't complete their schooling. We also know that they are making the weakest. We have basically been through a education policy in which we had our own arrangements for them as a majority of some reason did not find the fit. I think we have to have far more teachers and other employees into the group community than before. That's how we can individualize the help of individuals, whether it's a so-called capable student or a weak student. Just because we have a multicultural society, it's urgent to do this job. That's why I also signaled in my post that the way the Workers' Party will go is to get bigger teaching resources. I would also like to mention proposal No. 4 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e226	Grete Knudsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e229	The representative Knudsen was concerned that she saw this budget as a step in the right direction. I agree. In fact, I would also like to pay tribute to the chairman of the committee for constructive work in the committee during the examination of the budget. In fact, in cooperation, we have been able to find solutions that take into account the priorities of all parties. What makes me repeat – as a follow-up to the previous row of lines that the representative Knudsen had here – is what is stated in the general remarks of the Workers' Party: ‘It is important that the school is of high quality and inclusive. These members see an ever-increasing number of private schools as well as their own measures for disadvantaged individual students as a step in the wrong direction.’ The opposition to private schools is well known, and we had a round in Stortinget about it yesterday, but I'm going to let that lie. It is precisely the wording ‘specific measures for disadvantaged individuals’ that I feel are a little unhealthy. The Christian People's Party believes that adapted training is appropriate, but we do not exclude that this can also include measures involving an environmental change for students. Own work schools, such as: The Sunday school at Lysaker, which the Committee visited earlier during this period, may be a suitable measure. The needs of the student must be crucial to the nature of the action taken. I have a very strong sense of what the representative from Knudsen said about the working school principle, and I also agree that the school should use different learning traditions. But what does the representative Knudsen say is a step in the wrong direction, that ‘appropriate measures for disadvantaged students’?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e245	As I said in my reply to the representative Knudsen, I think it's very short-sighted of society to send the weakest away. We have such a school history in Norway, and I have actually been part of it myself. At some point, they are going to be going into a community again, and then I think it's much more important that the principles that you have, among other things. based on Lysaker, the normal school permeates so that there is room in this community for different measures and that the work of the hand and the spirit can go hand in hand within the same community. The need for individuals to spend periods alone with a teacher or to be in smaller groups shall not be prevented within the ordinary school community, where one learns that one is weak and strong at different stages of life. To organize this outside by taking the special school system and the service on board to the municipalities, I think I am going in the wrong direction. From the centre, including among government parties, one has moved towards an inclusive school. Then we have to make sure that resources are given into the individual school, so that there can be flour and diversity there. Because we know that ‘different children and young people learn best’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e250	It was considerable flight over the first part of the committee leader's posts, with strong statements about fair social distribution from cradle to grave. It's the kind of speech that's upbuilding. But it is known that the budgetary agreement of the Workers' Party is 100 pst. At the back of all points, there is a significant deterioration in, inter alia: the economy of the minimum pensioners by imposing an electricity charge for which no compensation is granted for that particular group. Neither have you regulated the pensions. In the 1997 election campaign, Thorbjørn Jagland became sick because the central parties wanted to increase the minimum pensions. This time he has apparently managed to implement a budgetary settlement with these consequences without getting nauseous. Let me also remind you that child-rescue reform represents a significant deterioration in the economy of small children’s families. It helps to ensure that the Workers' Party now fully agrees with the cash support. This is a point on which the Committee was given a decision last year in Stortingen to take care of the school buildings, which the chair of the committee took only so far this time. Governments have set up a cooperation committee, which, in my view, is not an answer to the challenge posed by the decision on enlargement. Remarkably, however, the Workers' Party, together with the government parties, has accepted this in the committee setting and says that when this body does not have the competence required by the trade union council, you have to relate to your competence. At my discretion, this is something as close to a Wesensteen classic as it is possible to get here, that is, the board that would check quality soup. My question is: why has the Workers' Party declined its call to set up a trade union council to help ensure the quality of the school buildings?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e259	One of the most important equality requirements for the movement of workers — it has also been known for Wage — has been to ensure education for more than the few. I am proud of the work carried out not least by the Labour Party Governments, and I also think it is positive that the Bondevik government in the heavy messages we have discussed this year, both the Communication towards richer goals and the Communication on the evaluation of Reform 94, follow this line. In this way, I am pleased that the right parties are still isolated in education policy. So until that wage said about the previous elections, that Thorbjørn Jagland was «feeling». Now there have been many twists on what Thorbjørn Jagland said in that situation. But what he experienced was that it was “suffocating” that the parties came and were going to dump on the pensions after a settlement with the pensioners was over and accepted by the pensioners’ own organizations. It's a way of running policies that we couldn't support, and that came out too. With regard to the very specific question of a cooperative body to assist in the guidance of the municipalities that we have requested, including last year together with the Right, the Council of State has said, and I assume that he will again point out here, that he follows up through the cooperative body what the Stortinget wanted, and that is what we are pleased with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e269	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e272	The harvest's beautiful and warming promises of thousands of millions of dollars to school buildings and thousands of millions of teachers' salaries are no longer as popular. Now it belongs more in the context of the municipalities' own priorities and tariff negotiations after Christmas. However, the implementation of e.g. The HMS regulation can and will be just as difficult as before, including large increases in teacher pay. For money is still defective, as in many previous years. I remember a kids' bar that said, "Juksemaker piperort, take it back and give it away!" Over time, the Progress Party has pursued a consistent and predictable policy in this area as well. Now that we are no longer in a relationship with the government parties, we can promote our own budget within the allocated framework. In other words, our priorities, which are mainly quality-related knowledge dissemination, are reflected in the budget for 2000. The Progress Party has proposed the introduction of individual teacher pay – for approx. One year ago, but it has not yet been treated – because it is important for us to be able to use wages as a means of self-recognition, self-development and recruitment. It's important to note that even among teachers there are clear ones, many teachers are on average, and some should not actually be teachers at all. The point of concern of the party is therefore to increase the average competence of teachers both in the course paid by the employer and not least by making it profitable for each individual to take personal responsibility. We have therefore allocated funds to municipalities that will start trials with individual teachers' salaries. This pot is in addition to provisions in connection with tariff negotiations. As far as primary education is concerned, the Progress Party has stated clearly earlier this year what we think is a basis for quality. There we have, among other things: referred us to the Human Rights Act, which states that the State undertakes to respect the freedom of parents and parents to choose schools other than those established by public authorities. This view is supported by the following: ‘Entirement education shall be compulsory and accessible to all free of charge’. In order to make this freedom effective, it is essential that all schools comply with any minimum education requirements laid down or approved by the State with State-guaranteed economic equivalency, so that freedom of choice does not depend on the property of the child’s family and any income. These aspects are not fully addressed by the majority. The government has prioritised four points, which relate to organisation and content of youth development of ICT as educational tool differentiation and adaptation of training, content and organisational prevention and mastering of negative behaviour in schools; All skills development is directed towards the development of practical skills, but very little resources are deployed to increase the professional competence of individual teachers. Most of them are organisational framework measures and crisis solutions. I do not have any specific measures to address the responsibility of teachers in the context of conflict management. About weekly, we get to serve hopeless and frightening scenarios of pupils who get out of each other, teachers and other adults. Violence, crime, terror, and unrest characterize the notions. When will the Council of State seriously address these problems? When should the majority understand that this work is based on adults caring for children and thereby creating ground for trust and respect? I don't see anything special in the proposition that takes care of just this. Trials and evaluations are good, but who is responsible for both the learning environment and policy? It has become increasingly clear that new policies are initiated by researchers, implemented by politicians and administrations, and finally researchers will review the full-scale trials so that we, as politicians, can avoid responsibility. What about children and young people in this system? What about the parents? And not least, what in the world are we using Norwegian research for? The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has a total budget of 227 million. kr for quality measures. In addition, we want to increase the overall number of hours in primary school, and we want to allocate 260 million. kr for this purpose. With regard to the health, environmental and safety regulations, we see that this regulation costs money to implement. So we've allocated an amount of 260 million. to this end, in order that municipalities may apply for funds for implementation. In the case of higher education, the Progress Party is still of the opinion that governance and administration are not satisfactory. The economic assumptions for research and for learning must be distinguished. The way the funding system works today is our perception that all parties within the system are suffering. We often hear enough students who claim that they do not get the organized, close follow-up they think they have a right to. We hear just as often the research communities say that students get a lot, and they suffer. This has to be done. It is not only that students are receiving increasingly poor offers, but the research funds seem to be distributed more and more according to the pepperbottle principle – almost all of whom are noses and folds in the whole country. This is what the Progress Party wants to change by separating funding for teaching or learning from research. In addition, we want to make the management function flexible by introducing responsible operational controllers at all units. This model will make advice that coordinates and acts as an advisory body superfluous – to a certain extent. This will probably facilitate the possibility of faster decisions and better resource use. The start of the design for the total rehabilitation of the URBAN at the University of Oslo is a priority and is included in the budget, and will be followed up in the future as well. We have spent money in our primary budget – and we maintain it in this budget – on the University of Bergen, 10 million. kr to be used for student houses and odontology buildings. The Student House is a story by itself – we're not going to get any closer to this, I think we all know it. The situation is no better with regard to the Odontology Building. In the case of student housing in Oslo and surrounding areas, we have reported that we want a construction rate of 500 dwellings per year. years for four years. This effort will meet the acute needs of student housing in this area. It is hoped that by co-location of the University of Bergen you will choose the project that offers student housing integrated into it, as such a choice will facilitate the situation here as well. In addition, the Progress Party is promoting a new proposal to amend the rules of the Husbank so that appropriations per year can be used. unity from the budget of the KUF Committee is no longer necessary. As far as research is concerned, this is an area where we have budgeted for a real increase of 100 million. kr, but the impact of a new funding system and the release of strong government would result in a much faster use of resources. In the case of foreign students, these are priorities. It's because we're of the opinion that these are not a necessary evil just because our own educational capacity is too weak, but we consider them a very valuable part of the national future, both in business, health and care and public administration, and not least as potential recruits for future research. Therefore, these must be dealt with in a much better way than has been usual up to now. In addition, I would like to address the proposals in which the Progress Party is involved, as well as the proposals on which we stand alone.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e324	Ursula Evje has addressed the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e329	The Progress Party holds the tab high and repeats and repeats that it is the responsibility of parents to ensure that children and young people have adequate training in fields such as order, behaviour and respect for the lives and property of others. No one is against it, if the children only live in safe family relationships and have parents. But the Medicine of the Progress Party is Penalty, Retention and Deportation. I myself was part of the school system when such measures were common, and one might ask: Was it better that time? How can the representative think that the solution is to consider old methods that one has left too long, long ago? Otherwise, I record that the Progress Party is equal to the labour and education sectors when it comes to the competitive community. In the society of the Progress Party, it is the competitiveness factor, the characteristics and the market forces that will solve most of the challenges. The party of progress will reintroduce the old nursery. That's why the party is opposed to any activity that doesn't have to do with theory and homework. However, it is inconsistent when the Progress Party does not give priority to cultural balls for economic reasons, but is for students to have a clay ball offer only to be covered within their school budget. Can the representative Evje explain how this is related when the representative still claims that there is a large, large lack of money?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e336	It might be true, as the representative Uppøen Hansen says, that we repeat and repeat: law and order and discipline. And we've been to a good school. Since I came into Stortinget, I have heard nothing but that another party has repeated: we do not want cash support. Again and again to the boring. With regard to the school Oppebøen Hansen was part of when he was significantly younger, I regret if he has been subjected to too much punishment and rehab. It certainly wouldn't have been like that if I had been part of it, but that's what happens. With regard to the Progress Party and our desire to equalise work and business with a view to competition, it is precisely to give children, young people and students the opportunity to become friends with what comes when they are out of a sheltered educational environment. We can't wrap anyone in cotton to so suddenly throw them into a zoo, or into a pit full of lions. We know how it would work. In the case of camp schools, I think Oppebøen Hansen is aware that I am not particularly happy on behalf of my own party to say yes to crops on a system. These should be incorporated and accessible to everyone, regardless of the parent's economy. Then it had been a reality and not, as today, something quite different. What surprises me then is that the Progress Party is the only party that has found room to give money to camp schools for blind and feeble children, because they are not offered at all. I hope there is an answer to Mr. Hansen's question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e349	In its comments, the Progress Party writes nicely about self-development in order to become a useful human being, and immediately afterwards that inequalities are normal and should be seen as positive opportunities in the future. But in the middle of this, they will only give priority to actions related to joint national dissemination of knowledge, what that really had to mean. From the latter, one might understand the priorities of the Progress Party, and in particular the lack of such in terms of Sami educational fields and linguistic minorities. The Progress Party usually speaks loudly about what they want to give money to, and less about what to take the money from, for example. culture and music schools. The lot is very concerned with the order and behaviour of the school, punishment, detention, etc. Does not the Progress Party, as the Christian People's Party does, see that cultural offers such as music, dance, image, drama are positive activities that get children and young people in the right track, and that not all children and young people will afford if these cultural schools supported by the public did not exist? Yes, they would not exist at all very many places. In response to what Evje had to say, the government has said a good deal about bullying and violence and such things – the conflict council at all schools – and we have also been involved in adopting a three-year project, the Association, which will help in the class situation. Then to student homes. Most of the parties have seen the great need for student housing in the budget here at Stortinget. All except the Advance Party increase the appropriation by 60 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. The proposals of the Progress Party for Oslo and Akershus, far below, do not address the basic needs for student housing. They don't have to argue with Stord. The need is far greater than that set up by the Progress Party. Can't they see that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e360	There's a lot of one that can have difficulty understanding! The representative of Stråtveit brought up several things here. She was talking about self-development. Yes, we mean it – it is a personal responsibility to face up to self-development, to a certain extent. Common national training piece – yes, but what is in this word? Very difficult to grasp. Most of it could be, and we want to make it concrete. What we have done in relation to cohabitants, women and linguistic minorities cannot be considered to be based on a common national position, as it is actually a very special offer to an awfully small proportion of people living in a very limited geographical area in that country. We wanted to see it as a great advantage if these were treated as the Northmen, got the same starting point as the Northmen most, so that they could freely seek work and pleasant conditions outside these restricted municipalities. It is difficult for the Progress Party to have a common view with the Christian People's Party, and I thought that was quite clear. In terms of money for culture, dance, drama – probably very good, but it shouldn't be mandatory. This should be voluntary. Calls – yes, it sounds good, but we don't have time to wait for three years before we get results, because there are too many children and young people who have suffered too much along the way. 60 million. SEK, one year, guaranteed 500 dwellings per. four years – well, you have to choose for yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e377	Let me start with a little bit of praise for the Progress Party because in some areas they try to go a little bit in the same direction as the Right when it comes to forming a counterweight to the Workers' Party's school policy. But there also stops the rose, because the times the Progress Party will go in our direction, they go too far. There will be a parody of a right-hand school policy. Let me give you a few examples from the setting we are dealing with today. In his reply, the representative was in an area in which the Right Party and the Advance Party share a fundamental view, namely that inequality must be perceived as positive possibilities – so absolute. But sometimes I feel that when the Progress Party talks about inequality, people will be allowed to be different if they are just like all of us. Then we're into what the representative Evje didn't answer so much. They say that they alone will give priority to actions that have to do with common national knowledge dissemination, and that they include things they don't want, among other things. Study plan 97 for Sámi settlements – one example where these parties separate layers. From the Right side, we have said quite clearly that we will never force the Sami curriculum on those who do not want it, but it is a very long way to go from forcing this on people not to give the Sami people the ability to choose their own language training and their own curriculum. This is just one area as an example that the Progress Party drew a part of what is its position on the right hand side, so it sometimes turns out to be completely inconvenient. I would like to ask the representative Evje straight out: does this mean that Sami kids will not be taught in Sami, and will they go in to take away the opportunity to choose the Sami curriculum for those who want such a plan?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e386	I won't give myself to parody right, they'll do it more than well enough by themselves. I'll only be allowed to quote something that's in the Right Purpose Paragraph. It is for the right to pursue ‘a conservative policy of progress’. This must mean that it is the policy that we abandon that they then take over. In the case of L97 Sami, right-wing fun says they'll never force it on those who don't want it. No, the Right may be right in that, since they were involved in supporting the establishment of a montessori school that would offer a wide range of children who had been forced – among other things. by Right thoughts. The Right Party and the Advance Party also agreed. Maybe that was just a parody. This one should not have to accept with a smooth mind. Differences and inequalities must be both cultivated and cultivated, but I don't think the living conditions for it are particularly good in either L97 or L97 Sami, because equality is a guiding principle in both of these plans, and the Progress Party cannot agree. That we're separating from the right, goes a little bit in the same direction. I think that very much of the policy in this house is a mess in the middle of the big pot.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e395	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e398	School-Norway has experienced several strikes in the autumn. The foundation has varied somewhat, but the disappointment of the state budget for the year 2000 has gone on again. I believe that today we are adopting a budget for education with clear positive features for a better school. In this budget, the Christian People's Party is following up on its promises from the 1999 election campaign, and we are continuing to realise our intentions from the Waxenå Declaration. The budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party strengthens the free resources of the municipalities by half a billion in addition to the Government's proposal and the scheme for the municipal economy in 2000 which the Stortinget dealt with in spring. This strengthens the ability of municipalities to protect the school sector from the biggest cuts. However, I and the Christian People's Party are aware that the framework in Kommune-Norway is tight, and that today it is the school sector that knows the most pressure. It can't be like this for a long time. The budget decision today includes a school package with emphasis on ICT, development and experimentation and quality measures. An increased stake of more than 200 million. In the first instance, it will benefit young people in particular, and this is the first step in a four-year effort. This initiative shows a willingness to invest in a realistic quality package to provide a better school in Norway. For the Christian People's Party, it is now important to stimulate the local initiative in School-Norway. If we are to get better quality in the learning environment, we need more development measures locally. Individual schoolleaders and teachers need to be supported in taking advantage of the space for action in plans and legislation. It's about returning the teacher as a teacher and giving self-confidence. This requires increasing opportunities for continuing training, and I would like to point out that for the next year, we will allocate far more to continuing training than for 1999. The Christian People's Party also wants to promote entrepreneurship as a goal of building and working methods in school. We believe this will improve the learning environment by giving students a more active role in the learning process. The challenges in School-Norway will not be solved by one year's budget. It has to be a long-term bet, and we need an interaction with Kommune-Norway to get it done. It is worrying when it is announced that municipalities will drop out of middle-sized schools to save money. I assume that the Government follows this development closely and proposes the necessary measures to ensure that even small schools have a place in our system. The framework for this budget was laid in the financial position. Several of the amendments resulting from the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party are required at most. This is particularly true of higher education and student housing. The re-priorities can also be defended. During the committee's work, we have also received a mini-package of 12 million. kr, with increased appropriations for Norwegian training for adult immigrants, a start-up grant for a maximum necessary rehabilitation of the Urbouw at the University of Oslo, and money for several posts in the Norwegian Church. The consequences of the invasions are minimal, but painful enough. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that next year, compared with 1999, public schools receive increased support, and the reduced increase compared to the Government's proposal does not imply any new signals of a down-priority of the school. The Swedish National College has a necessary place in the Norwegian education system. The church budget must certainly be said to be a budget of austerity. The labour pressure on the employees in the Church is high, and we need to step up staffing in the years to come. We are also waiting for a big message on the economy of the local church according to new church legislation. There will be an opportunity to look into the situation more closely. In my opinion, the conclusion is quite obvious: if the Church is to be able to fulfil its role as a church of the people, it needs increased resources. I am also pleased that Stortinget’s decision on the Norwegian Church abroad/Sjömannsmission is now being followed up. The Christian People's Party is pleased that a total accumulation will now decide to ask the Government to return to the Stortinget with a stepping-up plan for establishing a full-scholarship scheme for high school students. This is entirely in accordance with the Adult Declaration. It is well documented that borrowers with payment problems in the State Educational Loan Fund have raised loans in high school. As part of the budget agreement with the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party has also advocated a rental arrangement for school books in secondary school. We believe that a school boxing student had been a simpler and better response, but is now busy spending the 100 million. kr set aside, in a way that can benefit all secondary school students. Then we have to start with the basic course and focus on subjects that all students have. Here I am confident that the government will find a good solution. For a Christian Democratic Party as a Christian People's Party, it is always important to remember that the school should help parents in their education of the children. Education is part of this mission. A central part is the dissemination of our national and Christian cultural heritage, which is common to our society. We're becoming an increasingly multicultural society. Having visibility and tolerance in the face of new cultures and a diversity of life's views does not mean having to renounce our own value base as a starting point for the school's dissemination of values. A Christian-democratic party will therefore always point to the central place of Christian faith and ethics in our society, which the school will also communicate. When we point to the mission role of the school, this is a central ideological perspective for the Christian People's Party. I note with satisfaction that the Government and the Christian People's Party have today adopted their main priorities in the budget for the year 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e420	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e423	It is good to hear that the representative of the Christian People's Party is satisfied with the budgetary agreement that has been reached between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties, and that he is satisfied with the issues that the Workers' Party has managed to push the Government to increase its investment in — including investing in universities and colleges, school leisure arrangements and free school books in secondary schools. I am glad that this is something the government parties – and the Christian People's Party – are still behind. But I have to say that it was a hard fight to get the government and government parties involved in the bets they are now so pleased with. But what I want to ask is an area that concerns the Church, and the representative Lyngstad was so far within this. Now I don't think that I and the representative Lyngstad are so strongly in agreement and have a common view on religion and the Norwegian Church and those things. What's a little special in this setting isn't the few million more to the Church, but there's a couple of comments that the Christian People's Party is on here. In one note, it says: ‘The majority see the ongoing debate on homophilis in the Norwegian Church as an important contribution to an open and liberal people’s church, which includes all members of the Church.’ Furthermore, they talk about the work of the Open Church Group doing an important work, and they actually come with clear praise from the work done by that part of the Norwegian Church. My question, given that these are quite new tones from the Christian People's Party, is this simply something that only the two members of the Christian People's Party have in the Education Committee think, or is this something that the whole party is now standing behind? In that case, there is a new course that we would like to welcome with our whole heart.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e437	To the representative Norvoll I would like to say that good purpose there is never any problem in being involved and increasing the appropriations for. What was the hard drag struggle was more about how to cover up these actions. It was probably a lot of a draw on it, but I believe that the budgetary agreement we had in the financial position meets the priorities of the Christian People's Party in the budget. It was also easy to support the increased aims of the Workers' Party. When the representative Norvoll also goes into our remark under the church chapter and what we have written about the relationship with the Open Church group, I would say that the Christian People's Party has no problem saying that the debate on homophilis in the Norwegian Church is also part of getting an inclusive church. But when it is claimed that this remark is new to the Christian People's Party in the budgetary position, it is wrong. This comment is almost identical to the one in the budget position last year. Then it was a majority in the Stortinget, with the exception of the Workers' Party and the SV, who attended the same remark about the Open Church Group. What's polite here is that last year we said the exact same thing about the important work that the Open Church Group is doing in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e444	A little bit in the extension of the previous reply: I have also noticed that the Christian People's Party under the church chapter is almost going so far as to instruct the Church Council to provide financial support to the Open Church Group. We have respect for the work done by the Open Church Group in the Progress Party, it is quite clear, but we have a little bit of difficulty in understanding that, year after year, we are going to operate with such a detailed management towards the Church, and we find it perhaps a little eye-catching that the Christian People's Party is at the forefront of the barricades in this area. But that really wasn't what was my main point here. I have also noticed that the Christian People's Party in its introductory remarks calls for the situation of lesbians and gays to be taken into account in teacher training. That sounds great, because we're all concerned that these groups should have respect for their choices in life, and that they should have proper living conditions in line with everyone else. However, if we demand more information about lesbians and gays in teacher training, it will necessarily be at the expense of other factors that should also be strengthened in teacher training, such as: knowledge of IT, general competence of teachers, knowledge of dyslexia and dyscalculia, etc. It's a very long list. My question to the Christian People's Party is: What will you cut down on in your teacher's education to get more material on lesbians and gays?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e451	I want to repeat to the representative Knudsen of the Progress Party that the Christian People's Party does not participate in any detailed management of the Church in relation to the allocation to the Open Church Group. It says only that the Council of State will discuss the matter with the Council of Churches on continued appropriations. And that's a significant difference. There's no instructions to the Church Council in that area. Then I would like to say in relation to the NOVA report and the measures that address the situation of gay and lesbian students, that it is clear that we must also take account of it and treat it with respect. The fact that one also deals with these issues in teacher training, I feel quite unproblematic. Here it is important to include these themes in the subjects that teacher training addresses, both the issues of living together, and the issues of ethical issues. I do not see that this should be at the expense of so much other material in teacher training. Here it's about integrating the perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e458	It is right, as we have said, that there are quite major differences in Norwegian education policy, and the Christian People's Party has so far in this period, and especially this year, even down the left side, the Labour Party and SV say side in many things. It is right, as has been said by the representative Lyngstad, that we are forced to give priority, we cannot do everything. To avoid misinterpretation, let me stress that both cheaper leisure arrangements after school and cheaper textbooks are things that Right would like to support. But in that situation of Norwegian school today, we are unable to accept that these are the most important and the highest priority measures that we should be putting on, once we have a little too narrow a budget. And then I want to ask the representative Lyngstad: is this the budgetary agreement we have now got in the education sector, which can in no way be said to be a good deal of compromise, the price one has had to pay to get support from the Labour Party? Does the representative Lyngstad think that it is right by the Christian People's Party to choose from what we in Right bet the most on, simply the quality and use resources there instead of in the two areas I mean? Is it right to choose to strengthen a leisure system rather than to strengthen the refresher training of teachers that we saw absolutely needed, and rather to strengthen the core subject of the basic school? A right to choose the subsidization of textbooks by cutting apprentices, cutting public schools, and in the Research Council? Are these priorities supported by the Christian People’s Party?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e465	I think perhaps the representative Løvik makes the ideological differences small when he mentions the support of the SFO and textbooks to make it clear that the Christian People's Party has, as was said, ended up on the left side of Norwegian politics. I feel that the Christian People's Party is conducting its own school policy there. We have always supported the school leisure system. We believe that there is a need for a state subsidy in the school leisure system so that all families can make use of it. In a budget deal, it's always giving and taking. And I'm not going to hide that part of the priorities might look a little different if the Christian People's Party alone had decided this. But I absolutely believe that we can accept the compromise and compromise that has been reached here. I don't feel that the Christian People's Party chooses quality through this agreement. Rather, on the contrary, I believe that we will strengthen the quality effort next year, compared to 1999, both by increasing the resources of the local government sector and also by the school package for which the government is now implementing it. So I have to say that the budgetary agreement that underpins both the position today and the financial situation, we can go well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e472	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e475	In the Stortinget evening meeting yesterday, a very gloomy picture was drawn of the situation in our public school system, and that picture was preferably drawn by speakers from the Workers' Party. It was right enough primarily to have a platform to shoot at the private schools. Today, both the Labour Party and the Government parties say that they are well satisfied with the budgetary agreement that has been reached, and one must believe that it is also meant as a message to those who live in Norwegian school that they should also be satisfied with the budget that is being adopted. I take the chance to predict that that message will not be received particularly warmly outside this hall. Because we are, in fact, in something that reminds us of an exceptional state in the sense that the frustrations that prevail in Norwegian school – and it is true to note at all levels, from childhood to university level – have become so great that they threaten to weaken the basis of the future school, namely the recruitment of the basic profession that carries the school at all stages – the teaching profession. This is a situation that we have to take seriously. And then it's not a good answer that in order to reach a political compromise and get support for the Government, for example. has to spend a total of 200 million. on measures that are, at best, peripheral responses to the challenge facing them. It's adding 100 million. There is no very convincing answer to what teachers at school today are calling for as a problem of school. That's spending 100 million. kr on an expensive and very impractical system to get cheaper textbooks – it has been investigated three times, and every time it has been concluded that the system that is now in place is the second worst of the possible arrangements if you want to meet this need – is also not a convincing answer. What could the Government have done if it had sought a settlement the other way into Norwegian policy with regard to exactly the education sector? On the basis of Højre’s primary budget proposal, a very strong strengthening of the provision of continuing training to teachers could have been achieved – 250 million. divided by half at primary and half at secondary schools. One could have made a significant improvement in the situation of the students in line with what the Government itself has committed itself to in the Adult Declaration, but to which it has not followed up so far. Our foreign students could have been assured of the two fully educated return trips that they have been promised for years, but which the majority are not able to fulfill this time either. Study funding could have been improved by cutting half of the 0.5 pst. which all agree that the loan fund takes too much in the administration fee. It would also have been a significant relief for the newly educated teachers who are struggling to pay off their study debts. One could also have made a significantly stronger investment in housing for students than the one who is now involved in the agreement. One could also have achieved a not insignificant improvement in the working conditions of the Norwegian Church, a matter on which one would at least think that the largest government party places considerable emphasis. For those who work in the Norwegian education and research system, there is reason to regret that the Government has chosen this time to apply unilaterally the other way, with the relatively grey result of the budgetary agreement. Let me sacrifice a few words on the church chapter. In its original draft budget, the right had proposed to strengthen the Church's economy by 15 million. kr. Within the framework that is now there after the financial debate, we have maintained 10 million. kr, i.e. Seven million. kr more than the agreement reached between the Working Party and the Centre Parties. It's not a large amount, but it's at least a visible statement from the Storting that you're willing to do something about employment that's quite impossible in today's church. Let me also point out that the majority, the members of the Labour Party, the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, in a remarkable remark under the heading. 299, the information service's fund, indicates that the Stortinget has asked for an overall review of the Church's economy. Without having received an answer to this, it is already desirable to take a position on the future use of the earnings of the Information Society's fund and to say that ‘a greater proportion of the earnings of the Information Society's fund must be used for church purposes’. It's at best a misunderstandingal formulation, because the entire yield of this fund is actually statutoryly bound for church purposes. On the other hand, there is no basis for the return of the Fund to be used for statutory tasks which the State and the municipality are obliged to cover in budgetary terms. In that case, the fund's return will only be one way of balancing the current operating budgets of the Church, and that would be directly contrary to the fund's statutes. At this point, I refer to the comment that the Right, together with the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, has formulated, asking the Ministry to take into account the location of the fund and the use of the proceeds of the fund when returning to the Stortinget with the review of the Church's economy. In this context, let me also refer to another fund, namely the Research and Innovation Fund, which was established last year and which the Government has followed up. That decision was based on an agreement between the Workers' Party and the Right, which gave the premises for this fund. I am therefore surprised that the Workers' Party has this time joined with the Advance Party to formulate a significantly narrower basis for the use of the Fund than was the result of the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Right last year. It's a surprising behaviour, and I'm going to think that the very connection between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party must be to count on the volatile relationships, which may not be very much to build on in terms of a forward-looking research policy. The main difference between the Right’s draft budget and the Labour Party’s and Government’s draft budgets for education and research is that we have consistently and consistently invested in ensuring that the school’s task is to ensure that all children and young people, up to students, have a quality education offer. For the only contribution schools can really make to creating social justice and social equality in this country is that they will be able to solve their primary task, which is to provide a professionally good education for children and young people. There is a lot of research to prove that the poor level of youth education in the absence of a vocational goal is the weakest social point of departure. For this reason, a professionally ill-functioning school is the worst offer society can offer in terms of creating a level playing field and good starting opportunities for everyone. It is necessary to bet far stronger than we have done in recent years on school and education at all levels. Therefore, the Right was ready to apply an extra DKK 1 billion, earmarked for school and education, not least to meet the challenge of recruiting good teachers at all levels of Norwegian school in the years to come. It is disappointing that the government has chosen to go another way, with a bad result.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e496	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e499	I ask for the floor for an obvious misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e507	The President will recommend that one return to that misunderstanding in a later post, believing that it may not be entirely essential for the future of the debate to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e510	The representative Inge Wohnning asked: What could the government do if it cooperated with the Right? The answer was in good spirit: then everything would be so much better. I would like to remind the representative from the Right that this is actually the first budget, after the central government joined, where the budget agreement has led to an increased investment in education. I am sure that the representative Inge Wohnning well remembers who the Government cooperated with both last year and last year – it was the parties Progress Party and Right. The representative, Inge Wohnung, here in the hall, tends to make himself the spokesperson of logic. We saw a good example of Right logic last year. Then the Right in its alternative budget proposed to increase the investment in education by 100 million. kr. It is also much smaller than the increase for which the Workers' Party has been implemented this year. But then, when the Right negotiated a budget settlement with the central government last year, it was agreed to reduce the investment in education by 328 million. kr. At best one can then say that the Right was poor to negotiate, but to me this shows the Right True Face when it comes to the piece. When it comes to the world of reality, there will be little left of the Higher Education Promises. We see the same thing in Oslo. After profiling from school in the campaign and making a good choice, what is it that you choose to do? Well, you choose to cut the funding for education by 100 million. kr. I can also mention that the Socialist Left Party, the second party that profiled itself in relation to the school, was able to get through to zero out of the budget, while the Workers' Party had proposed to bet 200 million. kr more than the Right-City Council. So I'd like to ask the representative Inge Wohnung: what kind of logic is there in this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e519	It is possible that it is interesting to discuss the snow that fell last year and years ago, but I think it is more interesting to discuss the one that does not fall this year. I think it is more interesting to discuss the school situation in the budgetary year ahead of us than to discuss the situation in the current year or last year or in the previous year. The representative of Konglevoll did not comment in a single word the content of my post, namely the comparison between the Right's draft budget this year and the reconciliation that the Workers' Party has made 100 pst. rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, etc. Because that's also a difference. The Labour Party has insisted that they are involved in the budgetary agreement with skin and hair – all details, including the private school chapter. As you know, the right gave subsidiary support to a negotiated compromise last year. It is of little interest to discuss the budgetary problems in Oslo elsewhere than in Oslo City Council, but since the representative Konglevoll insists on conducting those negotiations also in Stortinget, I can ask back if the Workers' Party considers it a good contribution to Oslo's economy that it has helped to adopt a government budget that weakens Oslo's allocation by 600 million. kr for next year. If you care so much about the Oslo economy, maybe you should have taken this into account in the Storting. This is the budget for the year 2000 we are discussing, and in that budget, the Right has proposed a significant, strong and fundamental commitment to school and education. I maintain that it is good logic to complain that the government instead chose the Workers' Party and wasted very many hundreds of millions of dollars on peripheral measures instead.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e530	Let me start by saying that the Centre Party is well pleased that there was a budgetary settlement with the Workers' Party this fall, despite all the temptations that the representative Wohnung just presented. But he did not mention the cuts that one might have been on. We in the Center Party believe it was very important to get to this constellation in order to ensure a fairer distribution and for the smoother policy in general. The centre party will have a strong public sector where the single sun is one of the carriers. We were in our time towards school start-ups for six-year-olds, when we thought this age group had so much good to do in kindergarten, but when this is a fact, of course, we're busy putting the conditions to the best of ease both for the children and the parents in their busy everyday life. This is why a good school leisure system is needed, as the Stortinget, with the centre parties and the Workers' Party, has been approved, and for which it has been legalised that all municipalities should have. The right hand side indicates that the game has cut to 100 million. kr to the SFO in its alternative budget in addition to the Government’s proposal, and the lot will raise an additional 100 million. kr following the budgetary agreement. The first-raters are going to get the SFO, they say, and that was still good. The right is concerned with quality in school, and it's affordable, but the party doesn't see any connection between good leisure activities during growth and quality in school, which I think it is. My questions are: Does the Right not see that reduced State transfers to the SFO will lead to higher prices for parents and thus exclude some parents from using this offer? And the Right agrees that this can affect the children and in addition create difficulties for parents in caring for both jobs and care responsibilities, and that this will particularly affect single-parents, as most often mothers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e541	The fact that the Central Party is happy to have achieved a budgetary settlement with the Workers' Party cannot be surprising, because it has been repeated for three years to the boredom that it is the highest goal of the Centre Party to be as close to the Workers' Party as possible, both in education policy and in most other policy areas. What may be a little more difficult for others to see through is what will be left of the main message of the Central Party elections in 1997, which is that the Centre should be an alternative to the Workers' Party. What that option is going to be, it won't be easy to see when, for the Central Party, the highest political objective is to reach agreement with the Workers' Party. But it's going to be the more voters' problems when that time comes, to figure out what the center option really is. In education policy, it is at least not easy to see that there is something similar to an alternative to the traditional school policy of the Workers' Party. To the representative of Tingelstad, direct questions: It is the Right’s view, as it has always been, that the school leisure system is not a primary purpose in the school. It's an important offer, not least for those kids who start in the first class, but in a stressed economic situation, all of whom agree that we're in for school and education, it's the Right's view that, after all, it's better with a marginal increase in the parental pay for SFO than what you've achieved through the conciliation, that's a marginal reduction. In both cases, the marginal sizes are involved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e548	In a previous line, Inge Wohnung struck a blow for the minimum pensioners – in a good spirit of optimism. In the case of the school leisure scheme, which the Right wants to cut out, there is also a transfer to the families with children — but the Right obviously does not have the same need to support the families so that we can keep the payment down to a reasonable level. There is no mention of ‘marginal increases’ — as Inge Wohnung tries to produce it here — for many families with children. - It's purely economic. But the most serious thing about Inge Wohnning's way of partly haggling about the school leisure system is the view of education, or learning, which is then expressed. Clearly, learning for the Right is what is going on in a classroom situation, where there is instruction given by a teacher, an adult, to a group of children. But learning is so much different from that! I would wish in many ways that the Right acknowledged that, within what we define as the school leisure system, there is also learning. I wish that Inge Wohnung reflected a little more on the concepts of ‘learning’ and ‘education’. So over to the equivalent education offer and a qualitatively good offer. The teacher team has recently demonstrated in a report that there are considerable differences in the framework hours of schools. We have municipalities that use approx. two hours to primary school in upper secondary school — two hours, and at that time they will do all the different things that this resource is going to do. SV has a proposal where we ask the Government to investigate alternative ways of allocating resources. Would it not be natural for the Right, which is concerned with quality and good training, to take stock of what is happening in the resource situation, what is happening in the framework hour, and support the proposal from SV?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e566	Learning takes place in many places, we can quickly agree on that. Perhaps the representative of Rikvam will also be involved in learning while at home. Of course, the concept of learning is far more comprehensive than what the school is responsible for, and of course no school can solve its tasks if there are no learning environments outside the school. I don't think we need to have a skin discussion about it at all. What is the Right point is that it must be primarily the responsibility of the school, is what no other authority in this society can do. What is the primary purpose of the school is to ensure the professionally necessary equipment of children and young people. In that area, there's no one else but the school that can solve the problems. With regard to the other aspects of the overall learning environment, there are many who can help to cover it, as well as the school. The right has always considered that the school leisure system should not be defined as a primary school purpose. On the other hand, the need to ensure a safe environment for children beyond the defined school age must, of course, be met locally. What we disagree about is the method of funding, and to what extent this should be equal throughout Norway. It also leads me to the answer to the other question of Reikvam: the right does not believe that the differences in local priorities can be caused by the road, or that it is desirable to get them out of the way. However, we have taken the consequence that hours are important, and therefore, as in all previous years, right this year, priority has been given to increasing the number of hours in its primary draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e577	The President will ask the representative for a salary if he will make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e580	It's quite a reasonable assumption. It is hereby confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e585	The representative Inge Wohnning has drawn up the proposal he himself did well for. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e591	First, a little review of the representative's salary, who asked what kind of alternative the center option was. I want to return that, and ask – with the proposal that happened last autumn – what kind of alternative it would be with cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Right. The Budget Agreement between the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party has given a good increase to the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. The increase does not refer to funds for direct school use, but to the school leisure scheme, the lending of school books, universities and decentralised higher education. The centre party considers this to be a good thing, but would stress that the economic situation of municipalities is crucial to how school services are to be provided in each municipality. The government's school package almost doubles the amount of refresher education for primary school teachers. This I think deserves more attention than has been the case now. The centre party believes it is right that it is the youth class that should initially benefit from these funds. A number of exciting development measures are proposed where ICT as a educational tool is central to normal professional degradation, which is needed. I think it is particularly gratifying that teachers can have the opportunity to accommodate in other working life for a longer or shorter time. This will provide the individual teacher with relevant experience for their own professional exercise, namely to facilitate learning. This is important for the individual teacher, for the overall academic environment at school and not least for the students. If we are to be able to get to the visions of an innovative Norway, as the Government aims, we need to get to a training that leads to more creativity at all levels of the education chain. The most important thing in the learning process is to stimulate curiosity and give room for creativity to the learner. This will, in total, be able to promote the start-up and establishment of pupils and apprentices. In the field of secondary education, the budget allocation is a continuation of the year’s allocation. The proposition follows up the decisions taken by Stortinget regarding the high-level notification of high-quality education and the high-level notification of quality in school. I would like to stress that the training should focus more on differentiation and adaptation to the individual student/student. The conversion of the special pedagogical assistance measures, as suggested by St.meld. No 23 for 1997-98, among others this as an objective. This is now being followed up, and the intention of the Northern Norway Programme is being pursued in line with the recommendations of the Management Board and the needs and wishes of the region. It is positive that the competence development programme for pedagogical-psychological services and school leaders, called SAMTAK, is now under way. Competence reform will have a solid start-up of 180 million. kr. I am very pleased that the government has found room for adults to be entitled to secondary education. Norway shall become a competent nation. Then it has to be lifted from below, so give those who lack basic knowledge from before a new chance to evolve further. Not least, this is important for our many new fellow citizens, especially migrant women. I'm glad the committee majority was able to find seven million. additional to Norwegian training for adult immigrants in addition to the Government’s proposal. Although this cost cut in other items, it is a priority that I can stand up for. Norway is too much a commodity nation. We have very low processing percentages of resources compared to many other countries. This applies not least to fish and marine resources. Research and training needs to be stepped up in this area, which the 2000 budget clearly offers a start-up grant for the construction of a research vessel and the upgrading of the Austevoll Maritime Station. I also refer to the comment on Matre Maritime Station. In addition, the Minister for Fisheries will address this issue. In general, it is a major challenge to make young people live in rural areas. Interesting jobs are needed, while at the same time universities have to offer relevant and attractive training services, so that more people choose to take up their studies there. Better cooperation between businesses, policy authorities and higher education institutions is necessary in order to meet the needs of districts and the needs of students. Decentralised study provision is a very good measure, not least to reach adults who are difficult to move. Traditionally, this applies particularly to women. But it costs the schools to arrange such offers. Therefore, the addition in this area is a valuable contribution. Finally, on behalf of the Center Party, I would like to say how pleased I am that the Church will receive $3 million. kr extra for deacon and performance positions. I also refer to the announced financial proposition that will go deeper into this complex. As the rapporteur for the Information Service Fund, I would say that I wanted the majority not to instruct the Ministry about the use of the Church's Fund, all the time we know there's going to be a separate case about this later on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e621	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e624	I'm going to start with something that might not be so common, namely boasting of a representative from another political party. I would like to say that I think the representative of Tingelstad has been very constructive in his views on budgetary cooperation with the Labour Party, and of course not least in the consideration of the trade budget that we are discussing here today. I believe the representative Tingelstad, having heard the Inge Wage today, for practical reasons and also ideological reasons, will be very pleased that it is the Workers' Party they are now going to cooperate with in the future. It is this way, and it is also in relation to the representative of Tingelstad, that budgetary cooperation this year will be a challenge to be able to continue next year. I have registered that some people in the government have assessed it so that there is a cooperation this year, and then we'll see what happens next year. But school policy must be long-term, and there are no signs in time that the Right Party and the Advance Party should be natural partners of the Centre Party in the years that come when it comes to education policy. The question to the representative of Tingelstad will then be whether she sees it as quite natural to continue the cooperation we have had this year, also into the next year when we are going to create a new state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e635	First I have to be allowed to thank the representative Kristiansen – praise is not exactly to be despised. It's not that often a person gets assigned it in political terms, so it was nice. It's true, as Rune E. Kristiansen here says, that the school policy of the Central Party is probably closer to the Labour Party than it is to the Right. There will have been various comments and contributions from my side, as well as from other representatives from our party. So to the question of continuing cooperation: now we have a minority government today, we may not know what we have tomorrow, but there have been minority governments for many years. The probability that it's going to be in the future is pretty high. Then it is wrong to predict whether that minority government will cooperate with one or the other party. But I remember that last November, the leader of the Workers' Party came on the track and said that he considered contact with the Right to save the country out of a difficult situation. This shows that the political landscape in Norway is very varied, and it actually varies from day to day. My wish is that this government should be seated, that we should have constructive cooperation in every direction. For my own part, I am quite clear that in the education policy, the Centre Party finds the easiest together with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e648	The representative Tingelstad is affordable and has then established once and for all that the Centre Party is at least no alternative to the Workers' Party. That's a clear and clear message. Now I also recorded in this last reply between the representative Kristiansen and the representative Tingelstad that in this debate the Labour Party has chosen in many ways to follow the same line as in the financial debate in relation to the government parties – one might be somewhat in doubt if it is to be compared with a proposal or an initial political rape attempt. The largest government party has indicated that the last interpretation has at least little sense of and has led to a counter-argument. I have the impression that the representative Tingelstad really has nothing against it and is actually part of future mergers with the largest party in Stortinget. However, there is one element in the agreement that the representative of Tingelstad did not comment on, and to which I should have liked a comment. The proposal to introduce a school book lending scheme has been repeatedly assessed. It has been discouraged by all the experts concerned, both because it is expensive and because it is impractical and inappropriate. In the past, the central parties have also indicated that they agreed, and that they did not want to establish such a system. So this time you've paid 100 million. NOK in order to be allowed to purchase the Workers' Party's proposal. What has changed, and what makes you think this is a good idea, while it was a bad idea in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e657	The President has some doubts as to whether the first part of Mr Wohnungs' contribution is entirely in accordance with Parliament's speech.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e660	For the Central Party, the content of the policy is crucial for whom we are going to cooperate. It may vary from case to case, from place to place. In this context, I would like to greet the representative of Wage and say that, in Oppland County Municipality, the Centre Party has the county rapporteur by means of, among other things. Right. So we're not allergic to any parties, but I'm honest when I say that our school policy is closer to the Workers' Party. So ready I'd like to still be. But this did not prevent us from cooperating with the Right last year. So to the lending arrangement. Yes, now the Workers' Party has swallowed up the cash support, and then there is no problem for us to swallow the lending scheme – to put it that way – because the lending scheme is, after all, a help for the students, so that they can get a slightly more liberal school day. But I'm also going to be honest here and say that if I had been able to decide, I would have chosen a slightly different model, for example. with scholarships, as we are also in favour of our programme and the Adultås Declaration. Now it's important that we get into a model that doesn't create bureaucracy, that really gives help to the individual student, and that doesn't create too much work in the individual school. That's why we need to be open to finding good solutions and also to think in some modern ways about learning and learning. And then I know that the representative has previously asked: what is electronic learning? As we have mentioned in one context, there may be complex calculators, there may be CD-ROMs of different types, and there are absolutely important learning materials, which can also be part of the lending scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e669	Marit Tingelstad said that they had received a good addition to the Ministry of Church, Education and Research's budget. The amount is a little over 260 million. kr, that's the actual ratio, and she defines that as a good addition. I don't think everyone around Norwegian schools — primary, secondary, higher education and university — will think that this is a very good addition when we look at the problems you face. So she rammed up a lot of millions they've moved on to the different posts. I could also have taken hold of many posts where they have cut, but I will not. I'm going to address a more fundamental question, which I think is important, and that's what goes into the frame-hours of primary school. I also took it up in a line for Inge Wohnung and Right. We have just received a report from the Teachers' Team, which has made this registration, which shows that there are considerable differences between municipalities in the frame-hours of primary school youth. The framework hour is defined as the number of hours each class has at its disposal, which they are to use for teaching, for group sharing, for social educational activities – for their overall approach. Then we have municipalities with schools where the frame hours are 32 hours. And we know that the mandatory hour is 30. This means that these schools in these municipalities have two hours of group sharing, social education, etc. And this isn't special, there's a lot of municipalities at that level. As low as 32 hours, not many have, but some have. My question to Marit Tingelstad is: Does Marit Tingelstad agree with SV that there is a need to create some minimum standards, so that we avoid the situation that we are about to have?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e680	The representative Rikvam began with that I said it was a good addition. At least it's a significant addition, and you have to be allowed to notice. But I admit that everything is relative here in this world, so I could have thought a lot more. But this government is responsible for a total budget for keeping interest rates down, etc., and there have been tight budgets in all the different areas. It shows both the financial position and the debates on the budget of the various departments during these weeks. I didn't ram a lot of millions. But I framed a number of positive actions and measures that have in themselves new ways of thinking about learning and organisation. And I think it's important to get there. It doesn't help with millions if you drive by the old-fashioned way and get nothing more out of the learning process. There's a big difference in the frame hours, says Reikvam. That's right, there are big differences. But there are very big differences in terms of our municipalities and the municipal structure as well. And it's a municipal responsibility to distribute resources to the schools in the municipalities according to what local politicians find is right. I'm the first to admit that in many municipalities there are serious signs that the schools are suffering, and I'm going to do my part to improve this. As I said yesterday, I want to work hard to improve the local economy. So ask Reikham if I agree that minimum standards should be introduced in certain areas. As I know, we have some kind of minimum standards in the training law, etc. But I don't want to pre-shoot anything here right now, but refer to that document number. The 8-proposal for which I am the rapporteur, and which we will come back to later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e693	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e696	«You have to compare» – it was the motto and the driving force of the main character, the little boy, in the film «My life as a dog». Everything could have gone so much worse, and since things could have gone so much worse, what happened was pretty good. To put today's debate into context and in a broader perspective, I want to start with a matter we're going to discuss tomorrow. This thing can be good to have as a backtrace to illustrate our willingness to bet on education. Tomorrow, the Stortinget will deal with a case of exceedance in the Åsgard field. The cost overrun has been estimated at just over 18 billion kroner, almost 19 billion dollars, compared to the estimates in the development plan. In total, the field has a cost of something over 60 billion kroner. The exceedance is barely 38 pst. of the initial estimate of costs. When we in SV propose a few billion more mainly to the local government sector to give room for more money to the school, this is overbidden policy, it puts the budget balance at risk, it will create a new revolution on the price and cost spiral, SV has money for everything that is good, and SV is irresponsible. That's the answer we get when we propose NOK 2.5 billion more to the local government sector. We in SV understand, and have no difficulty in understanding, that investments in the North Sea will generate income in the future. These are investments for the acquisition of income, but there is also investment in education. There are also investments for the acquisition of income. It's not the oil or, for that matter, the gas we're going to live on in the years to come. Two thirds of our national wealth is the value of human capital. This is not an SV that has been invented. This is something that the government of Jagland in the long-term programme estimates it to be. But this isn't a given size, this has to evolve, and it has to be managed in a good way, in the same way that we also have to manage our assets. It must be invested in renewal and in updates. It is this recognition that underlies SV's commitment to education. On the basis of the budgetary agreement, some people like to present it as an education budget, this increase is 1.4 pst. by the exceedance in the Åsgard field, and then I am talking about the Ministry of Church, Education and Research budget. If we take the whole increase in the transfer to the local government sector that the government parties and the Workers' Party use as an example of a strong commitment to education, this represents approximately. 5 pst., i.e. one-tenth of the cost overrun in the Åsgard field. This is the order of magnitude we're talking about when it comes to what's being produced as an education budget. As a small comparison, the Children’s Ombudsman has estimated that it will cost about DKK 15 billion to equip all kindergartens and kindergartens in this country to a standard that makes them comply with the requirements of the regulations on environmental health protection. It's NOK 3-4 billion less than the cost overrun in the Åsgard field. We in SV have tried several times – and I have tried here today – to raise a debate on the equivalent education offer. We know that there are considerable differences between municipalities in terms of resource input measured per. student. We know that the spread goes from approx. NOK 30000 and up to NOK 115000. A better measurement parameter is probably what we call the frame hour. the number of hours spent by one user in each class. According to the study I have referred to earlier, which the Teachers team has done for all municipalities, it turns out that the spread is at least equal when we use this benchmark. So we have municipalities that have a ramti metal at the youth stage of 32 hours – two hours for group division! We talk in this room about individual training and adapted training, but to do this, you have two hours. Two hours is what these schools have to do. Obviously, this is an impossibility, everyone knows it. There will be no individual training provision and adapted training when a school has two hours to group sharing, social educational activities, etc. With this frame hour, we have to recognize that the goal of the teacher's plan is not going to work. Finally, I address our suggestions, which are included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e721	The representative Rikvam has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e726	The representative of Rikvam was concerned with an important point in his contribution, namely the role of municipalities in the development of primary school. It is the municipalities that are responsible for primary school, and it is really the municipal budget that is the main budget for primary school and the main contribution the country makes to primary school. Now I have recently seen a report by Norwegian Teachers' Team, another than the Reikvam referred to, where we have looked at what the councillors have proposed for next year's school budget. It turns out that over 60 pst. of the municipalities also reduce the working capital of primary schools next year. They've been doing that for years, so this is a very worrying situation. I have noticed that SV wants to increase the funds for quality development in primary school, although the funds for next year have doubled in the government proposal. That's good, it's important to train teachers. But here too, municipal peculiarities are required. And as the majority of committees say, the most important thing we can do in the short term to improve basic school conditions is to ‘increase the free income of municipalities’. But can you be sure that the municipalities are using the funds for the school? We can't do that because there are so many other screaming needs. I just wonder if SV has faith in the elected representatives of the municipalities when it comes to standing up for the school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e737	I agree with most of what Anneliese Dørum said. The size has really only two ways to attack this if we're dedicated to strengthening the school. We have two alternative ways to go. One possibility is an increased earmarked transfer to the local government sector, where we in this room decide – and say – that each municipality should use so much for the education sector. The second option is to increase the framework transfers and to tell the municipalities that here you have a larger bag of money, and that we expect you, as we here in the Stortinget, at least verbally, to want to strengthen the education sector. That's the alternatives we have. We in SV want primarily to increase the framework transfer so that the local government sector can give priority to education. But at the same time, and I've been stressing a couple of times today, I think it's absolutely necessary that we set some minimum standards to ensure a minimum level for all municipalities in terms of resource supply. We have some minimum standards, it's true that Marit Tingelstad answered me, but in the central area, what has to do with hours, we don't have minimum standards. Less than ten years ago, in our youth, we had a 47.5-hour frame metal. All municipalities should have it. But then we wound it up in the context of the new system of hours. So today we have 32 hours of school, and before, ten years ago, we had a minimum standard of 47.5 hours. It should be a cross of thought for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e748	We had the debate on private schools yesterday, otherwise it might have been tempting to ask SV if they really believe that the budget framework should govern parents' right to run private schools, as the representative Rikham said yesterday. It is in the post grant to privately owned school and church buildings that SV cuts drastically. But then go to school. There are interesting comparisons presented by the representative in his statement – absolutely. SV focuses on education as an investment in the future, and we in the Christian People's Party absolutely agree with that. Like most other parties, SV believes that youth is the most neglected part of the education system. But how can SV in its comments say that neither the Government's proposal nor the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Government's parties have proposed changes that will strengthen this part of primary school? Hasn't the representative read page 39 of St.prp. No 1, where the Government proposes a four-year period during which to concentrate on secondary education, development of competences and trials? For 2000, 45 million is added. kr for skills development, in particular ICT, 50 million. kr to teacher leave schemes, SEK 25 million. kr for the development of the teaching role and 14 mill. kr to attempt another allocation of hourly resources. And the government says this is going to be focused on youth and, first of all, it benefits the youth. Quality development has increased by over 134 million. kr in relation to 1999. I wish SV were more involved in bringing out the positive in school. In the case of SV's director's visits around the schools and the picture she's drawing after that, it's often very negative. I know the school from a positive and good side, and I want SV to be able to join in and pull it forward in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e764	SV does not want to draw a dark and gloomy picture of Norwegian school. We've repeatedly tried to draw out the positive that's happening. We still have a teacher who does a great job. A lot of exciting development is taking place with new pedagogical methods, and the school largely follows up the curriculum as far as the resource situation allows, etc. So we have a positive picture of what's going on in Norwegian school. But it's also quite obvious that in many ways we have an unsustainable situation. I've pointed out the frame hour earlier today. It's clear that if the reduction in the frame hour continues, we can't expect any further positive developments. We have school buildings that fall due. We can read about it every day in the Evening Post. It is not SV who writes it, it is the Evening Post that daily tells us how hopeless the situation is in the Oslo School, with pictures of classrooms where the students are almost drowning due to leakage, etc. So it's not an image SV drawing, it's the media drawing that picture. That's what we're trying to tackle, raise it here, and then discuss what we can do. It's true that we cut in private schools. Of course we'll do that. That is a consequence of the scheme that we have previously proposed for grants to private schools, with graduated rates. From that point of view, we believe that it is possible to reduce the subsidy to private schools, just to put the funds into public schools and to strengthen public schools. As I said yesterday, the biggest threat to public schools is not the few private schools we have, but the poverty of public schools. And we have to do something about that!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e775	SV is sometimes a good value conservative batch and together with the Right represents an alternative, for example. in the year's budgetary position on two points. It concerns the proposal to set up a research centre at Fornebu before taking a position on the ‘Centers of Excellence’ principle at all. A proposal has been put forward by the Right and the Left together on the basis of the normal principle that the premises should be in place before the conclusion is reached. On another point, which is symbolically quite important, SV and Right also stand together, namely when it comes to reversing the attack on the high school. It's a modest cut, but everyone knows that the Workers' Party has been trying to hit the national colleges for years. This time, they've managed to force the government parties to cut the appropriations for the National Colleges. The joint comment that the Right and SV have on this point seems to me to be very readable and very good value-conservative cultural and education policy. In fact, it turns out that we express "astonishment" over the governmental parties, while Mr. Rikvam expresses concern about the majority. But it's a shade that it's possible to live with. The representative, Rikham, was not given the opportunity to say a lot in his post on the University and Higher Education – it is not so easy in a five-minute post to fit everything – so my question is: Can we also expect that we will have an alliance between SV and Right in the continuation of ensuring a real commitment to recruitment within the university and higher education level?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e784	If we can get into an alliance, I don't know, but what's pretty certain, is that the right can count on SV in terms of a real bet on higher education. I just want to remind you that the stepping-up plan contained in the research report with regard to scholarship holders and post-doc positions, which the Council of State has signaled, we have pushed it forward, because we believe it is absolutely necessary to start in 2000 with that escalation. The situation is so precarious and so serious that we have put it in. I had hoped that others could be there too. I think in many ways that it is possible to get a cooperation between SV and Right, and I also hope that we will bring others to a broad commitment to higher education. In some contexts, we're a value conservative party. It's in our ideology. But I didn't want to use what we wrote about the folk high school, as an example of our value conservatism, because that's where we started with old Grundtvig. And I'll probably doubt if he would have wanted to be defined as conservative – at least in his own time. He was probably a very radical educational politician at the time. We're probably busy with that part of the folk high school that starts with Grundtvig, and we want to defend the folk high school. Just as State Council Lilletun said yesterday that Steinerskole had a positive impact on public school, I would say that part of the pedagogical work that has been done at our national colleges has had a good impact and impact on what has happened at public school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e791	Then the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e794	The education budget for 2000 is a budget for quality development in school. The left believes that it is a right initiative when the first part of a four-year school development package is directed towards youth. These additional funds will be used for innovation and development at individual schools, i.e. more diversity and flexibility as well as increased interaction between school and society. This means a turnaround in education policy — from the detailed management of the school and the teacher’s task from the top to a willingness for development to take place at each school, and with the motivated teacher pushing, not a school bureaucrat. It warms a left-heart when the development of the school is centered around the teacher's role as educational leader in the classroom. We have long been concerned that the teacher should be reduced to some kind of competence bureaucrat. Now there is an impact on a different way of thinking about the teacher's important role in the development of the school. A doubling of the efforts in continuing training for teachers in relation to the 1999 budget, and the new leave arrangements, will enable teachers to continue training, not just to participate in training for the proper follow-up of reforms. The left sees this as a sort of first step towards a so-called Sabbath arrangement. Information and communication technologies at school are important because there is a tool that provides new opportunities for learning. The key is how new technologies can be used for communication and for understanding information. Many teachers need professional updates to guide students to use and understand information and communication technologies wisely. It is also important to develop Norwegian electronic tools. The left is pleased that the Government is now launching the national promise through the four-year action plan, which can provide Norwegian students with the best starting point for a good life in a knowledge-based technology society. The Research Communication is under consideration by the Committee. Of course, the response has been positive when the Government now adds to a strong growth in research appropriations in the years to come. The left is satisfied with the fact that we have started the escalation by the fact that next year's budget implies a certain growth for research purposes. But I note with amazement that the Workers' Party and the Advancement Party are anticipating the handling of this communication by the Stortinget with the proposal to restrict the purpose of the newly established Research Fund. It is only six months since Stortinget agreed that the Research Fund should be able to finance long-term, fundamental research in all sectors and research in the grey zone between sectors, and that the Research Council should have increased the freedom of action to follow up its intention to establish it. The Workers' Party takes a rematch when they will now restrict the purpose of the strategic areas. In this way, these parties undermine the important role the fund can play in basic, long-term and free research, so I hope, as a wage, that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party prove to be a volatile link in this particular matter. In the view of the Left, the contact and interaction between educational institutions and the community is of great value to both parties. It must be such that students too should be able to take an active part in the community, including as elected representatives. In order to ensure the democratic rights of students, we believe that today's legislation should be amended so that students who want to do so can report moving to the municipality in which they live. This should also be a problem raised in the submission by the Government of a case concerning the relationship between the host municipalities, educational institutions and relations. In this year's budgetary settlement, perhaps the art students are the ones who have finally gained an impact on their vision. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party and the Right have turned around, and that there is now a broad majority who believe it is a goal that the art scholarship should be increased to the previous level, at 66.6 p.m. This has been a tough fight for those students who did not give up when everyone thought the case was lost three years ago. The art studies and the art students must be treated on their own terms and conditions. When there has been so much unrest at the art colleges after the co-organization, it may be that the peculiarities of the arts have not been taken seriously. Of course, these schools have resources to ensure a good supply of education and to enable schools to carry out R & D work. The left expects the Department to follow up the Committee's comments in good dialogue with the schools, so that we can get an art education that a cultural nation can be familiar with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e813	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e816	The representative was in his post on a ‘volatile link’, and I would like to start by asking if such a link as is now between the Labour Party and the Left on the school policy should also become a volatile link. The representative was involved in quality development, and had an article that I could sign in many ways. But it's kind of not related, the rhetoric and what was the result of Left's school policy in the conciliation. This strengthens a leisure system after a period of schooling rather than continuing training, rather than strengthening the core subject, with a total of 100 million. to an administrative animal loan scheme for school books by cutting apprentice fees, cutting public schools and cutting the Research Council. But to defend this, one says: Yes, but the municipalities have got a better economy. Of course, you can discuss how much is left of it. In any case, it is emphasised that the 500 million will be used, and as stated in the resolution of the settlement parties, the 500 million in the municipal sector means that the municipalities can use 800 more per cent. Students in primary school». It's all right if we ignore the decrease in value that will result from increased taxes and taxes, higher wages, etc. But in addition, I find reason to stress that the Labour Party wanted to spend these money several times, and that's a little bit difficult. Even if the crown has two sides, it can only be used once! In the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs' budgeting, the Labour Party states: ‘In order, inter alia, to strengthen the capacity of the municipal sector to make use of earmarked funds and to strengthen the school sector, these members propose...’ In the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health' budgeting, the Labour Party states: ‘These members will further indicate that the agreement between the Workers’ Party and the Government involves a municipal economic structure that improves the ability of municipalities and county councils to improve the provision of services in the care of the elderly and health care sector.’ How does this relate? I thought there was a relevant question in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e836	First of all, about who the center parties choose to work with. It is that we believe we have a good policy, and the Left believes that we have been well-implemented in our education policy in the Government. We are interested in who gives us the most support for that policy. When the year’s budgetary procedure has shifted less funds than ever before in the 1990s, you can ask who is moving on to who. In the course of the year's budgetary procedure, we have received more money in the budget of the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, something with which the Left is very pleased. We are very pleased with some of the priorities that have been made, namely, free funding for universities, more money for student housing, and we are also pleased that the family economy is being strengthened through increased grants to the SFO. These are also priorities left behind. In addition, we have been given re-priorities in the committee with which we are also very pleased, namely money for the Destruction, increased grants for adult education for immigrants and improvement of the Church's economy. All of these are issues that the Left is fully behind, and that are our priorities. When the representative Løvik insinuates that we should not be satisfied with this, it is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e845	Both the representative Wohnning and the representative Falch Fladmark have reacted and used relatively strong forms of expression related to the Workers' Party's and the Progress Party's comments on research. Then I feel the need to say the following: the Workers' Party's comments in this regard have been placed there from the moment we submitted our comments. It is not the case that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have drawn up a joint remark. On the contrary, the Workers' Party has put the note in its principal position. And that the Progress Party joins the note, the Labour Party does not see as negative when you get a majority in favour of a view. That's what I've registered so far. And I would be surprised if, for example, Left, if they made a comment that gets the majority, suddenly they would draw their remark. I guess you have a clear sense of what you're doing when you put things in a committee -- that's just what I wanted to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e850	Now it's probably the way that Rune Kristiansen didn't explain everything that's happened. What is now in place is a proposal for a decision by the Labour Party and the Progress Party which greatly limits the objectives of the Research Fund in relation to what the Stortinget agreed to in the examination of the revised budget this year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e855	I think there is reason to commend the budget agreement for higher education. The fact that you've been set aside for less than 100 million. NOK, but initially got NOK 100 million. kr for higher education in the higher education sector, is good and important. And that's a proper priority. But I have a question for Helene Falch Fladmark. This concerns the Centre for Excellent Research, which is intended to be located at Fornebu. In the budget agreement, they have done something they call a ‘future shift’. The appropriations proposed for the following year shall be staggered in some way. These are in many ways anticipating what we are going to do in the research communication. That's where we're going to decide if we're going to have that kind of center. It is also in the Research Communication itself that the Research Council is asked to propose the location of these centres on the basis of an overall assessment. I'm assuming that's what's going on. Here you anticipate a particular matter. One wants – at least the government wants it, and I also see the conciliators as such – to set up this centre at Fornebu, in an area where there is no scientific, heavy professional environment at all. My question to Helene Falch Fladmark is: Does she see it as a displacement that in many ways it has been decided that you should set up the Centre? Is it in accordance with the priorities of the Left that such a centre should be established before a proper review of such centres and their location? Wouldn't it be natural for the Left to support our remark, where we say that such centres should be established in relation to the heavy professional environments that we have today, that is, our university environment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e866	First of all, I would like to say again, so it's clear that the Left considers it a right priority to withdraw money from this center and give priority to free funding to the universities and to the URBAN. I would like to read the comments as a committee majority of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left are behind on how to handle the 'Center of Excellence' at Fornebu in relation to other such centres. ‘The majority indicates that the issue of introducing one or more ‘Center of Excellence’ will be discussed in the context of Storting’s examination of the Research Communication. The majority believe that there are good arguments for introducing such a scheme, but would ask that the funds be allocated to the Research Council's budget area in order to assess the form of such centres.» It is important that the money remaining for a ‘Center of Excellence’ at Fornebu be seen in a context and that the Research Council be given the right to decide how this should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e876	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e879	I would like to emphasise once again that most of the funds spent at primary school are not covered in this budget, but in the budget to which the Municipal Committee is putting an end. It is through the framework grant that municipalities get the funds to run primary school, and it is the municipalities that are responsible for primary school. The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the government parties led to a 500 million increase in the free revenues of municipalities. kr. Many might say that's not enough, but at least it's a step in the right direction. And it's interesting that the Right, who holds the tab high when it comes to primary school, has not at all thought that they need to strengthen the income of the municipal sector in relation to the operation of primary school. In a recent study by Norsk Lærerlag, it appears that the councillors' proposals for the municipal budget for next year show that in over half, or over 60 pst. by municipalities, they will reduce the operating resources of primary schools. It's a proposal to reduce the number of hours, it's cut in special educational measures, it's the closure of schools and the dismissal of teachers, that's on the map. Now we have to hope that the local politicians do not follow the advice of the councillor and that they will strengthen the primary school. But the situation is serious, especially given that the operating budgets for primary schools have been reduced for many places for several years. And then there's an ever-increasing decline for primary school. As far as youth is concerned, which I believe the whole committee, except for the Progress Party, is now going to put the spotlight on, it is clear that the situation is the most serious. And I'm referring to the Children's Ombudsman's hearing where the high school students themselves came up, and they described a day-to-day school where they were dissatisfied with the school, it was boring at school, there was a bad indoor climate with crowded classrooms – at all, there's a lot that needs to be done there. Now a number of pilot projects are being set up to improve primary education both in terms of education and in terms of the use of hours, etc. And it's going to be interesting to see how these trials will evolve and what lessons you can draw from them. I think it's important that you really get a change in the physical environment, but also content in high school, and that's what we're about to do. But the most important thing we can do in the short term to improve primary education is to strengthen the economy of municipalities. Of course, we are not sure that municipalities will use the increased funds, the increased frameworks, to strengthen the school. I think, therefore, that we also need to assess whether we need to introduce certain minimum standards, some requirements that the municipalities have to deal with, while at the same time improving the municipal economy. When it comes to the physical and mental environment in school, there are too many places. Last year, the majority of the population decided to set up a national board of experts on indoor climate and learning environment to assist the Ministry in the guidance of municipalities and user groups of schools and kindergartens. The Council of State has now endorsed this decision by setting up a working environment cooperation body to focus on the environment in school. The aim of Stortinget was that this should be a specialist council – that it should be competent professionals who could provide advice – and we now assume that this cooperative body will develop into a trade union council.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e896	The school year in which we're now in, is especially special in the sense that it builds a bridge between two thousand years. In the meeting with the new millennium, knowledge and education are the best equipment we can provide for the coming generation. And while many people talk about the oil wealth and the oil fund being the country's heirloom, I don't doubt that our real heirloom is the young ones who grow up today. It is our duty and our challenge to make sure that they get in their nest baskets the professional, technological, social, cultural and ethical dimension that they will need to orient themselves and find out in an unknown future landscape. Therefore, it is gratifying to see that more and more people see the importance of prioritising education and skills. At the end of this century we can also be a few that Norway, and then especially after the war, has built a very good education system. Many of the international studies carried out show that Norway is well placed in most of the fields and in some of the areas of the world summit. We, who are actively working on the problem of daily life, still know that much has been done. It's been the school bat in the fall, and we have so many challenges to tackle, too, into the new millennium. In this perspective, in June this year, the Government presented a major research report, which is now under consideration in the Committee. The notification is ambitious and announces that the Government will step up research efforts to bring Norway to the level of the OECD average over five years. In the submission to the State budget for 2000, the Government has already started to step up towards this goal, and the budget proposal shows a calculated increase in research appropriations of 7 pst. This is the largest increase since 1993, and I am glad that the budgetary agreement in total does not seem to increase significantly. The first return from the Research and Innovation Fund will be distributed in 2000. The fund will be an important instrument for the Government to achieve the growth target of the research message, and the Government is committed to increasing fund capital from DKK 3 to 4 billion during 2000. When Stortinget agreed to set up this fund, it was an intention that the fund should strengthen long-term, fundamental research. In the submission to the State budget, the Government proposed that the funds should be used to strengthen the priorities of the research communication, namely the long-term, fundamental research into the general knowledge and four thematic initiatives. I believe that the commitment to strengthen long-term, fundamental research is firm, and that funds can be used as a tool such as recruitment, scientific equipment and quality improvement measures. With this background, I want to follow up my views of the Committee of the Regions by giving priority to long-term actions in the field of marine research, medical research, ICT and energy and environmental research. The majority of the Committee emphasises that the focus of education is on a society where knowledge and competences are becoming increasingly important for individuals and for business. Among other things, the majority point to the importance of strengthening basic and continuing training. I am therefore satisfied that the free resources for municipalities and county councils will be increased following the budgetary agreement, that the school free time arrangements will be strengthened and that the pupils will receive further training reduced expenditure on textbooks. This initiative comes in addition to the increase that already exists in the Government's budget proposal. As an important part of the school effort, the Government is proposing a'spherical package' in the budget. This increase in funding for the school sector will increase by 225 million. kr, and the main weight is placed in the first place on the early stage of the undergrowth. The increase in school investment is 900 million. kr over a four-year period, focusing on information and communication technologies, development of competences, development work and trials. The year 2000 may be an exciting and challenging year for universities and universities, in view of the fact that the Mjøs selection will be presented with its final date of 1 April. The selection shall include, inter alia: have assessed the need for conversion, funding principle, dimensioning and new degree structure within the university and higher education sectors. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee asks that the extra resources for universities be allocated and used for conversion, research and recruitment, and that the Committee stresses that the work on the transition is a continuous task. In allocating funds for conversion, the Ministry will give priority to measures to facilitate a long-term strategic transition at universities. In the setting, the majority of the Committee asks that the economy of the art spheres be assessed. In the context of the 1999 revised national budget, I briefed on the economic situation at the School of Art in Oslo. I want to come back to a review of the economy of the art spheres with a comparison between the institutions over time. I have chosen the Committee's proposal for a decision in connection with the proceedings for the co-location of Norway's High School of Music and the Music Conservatory of the former East. I agree with the Committee that this matter should be resolved as soon as possible. The Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, Ministry of Labour and Administration and State Building are in dialogue with the NRK to set up a work to address the alternatives that are now leading to additional areas for the Academy of Music. I also take note that the Committee believes that the state objection to re-regulation for the purpose of housing of the land area in question should be drawn when the necessary land area for the School of Music is secured. This will be done. As a follow-up to the Stortinget’s decision in connection with last year’s budgetary management, the Ministry of Education, Education and Research presented an overview of the building needs of the sector in 2000. In view of the economic situation and, in particular, the high activity in the construction industry, no new building activity was proposed in 2000. I have noticed that the Committee has several places in the configuration a mention and priority of different construction projects within the university and higher education sectors, and will take this into account in the further work. The design permissions of the URBAN in Oslo will be followed up as requested by the Committee. The majority ask the Government to consider changing the rules for awarding grants to student housing, so that the discount rate e.g. in Oslo, the amount can be increased to NOK 300,000 per year. housing unit, but within the upper limit of 60 pst. of the construction costs. The rules for the award of grants for the construction of student housing are already such that the discount rate e.g. in Oslo may amount to NOK 300000. I am pleased with the broad support from the committee for the work of the Adult Competence Reform and the fact that the Committee has ended its approval of a total of 180 million. NOK 2000 The reform is crucial for both private and public activities to have the competent and flexible workforce needed in a society where the economy and welfare of the future are based on knowledge. In order for the reform to be successful, it must be based on interaction and commitment from many actors. The process is now well under way with close cooperation between the board of directors, the social partners and organisations and institutions providing skills development. Adults in need of primary and secondary education are particularly important target groups for the reform. The Ministry is working to follow up the Stortinget’s decision to legislate on the right to basic education for adults. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the introduction of a right for adults to further training from the 2000-2001 school year. I want to come back to the Stortinget with a bill on this spring 2000. The size of the population has recently been subject to changes in the labour-environment law, which gives individual workers the right to education leave. This is an important element for the implementation of the reform, although we still want it to facilitate, as far as possible, the development of skills at the workplace. The changes in education funding to which the Stortinget has joined will make it easier to combine work and education. When it comes to the Committee's proposals and comments on the church budget, I have noticed that the Committee is in favour of more performance and diaconferences by providing room for an increase of 3 million. kr for next year. I see this presented, and the committee comments otherwise, as an expression of a fundamentally positive attitude towards the Church as a people's church and to the values that they add to the Church create in our society. As the Council of Churches, I am pleased with this basic attitude. Otherwise, I have made special mention of suggestions and assessments that relate to the use of returns from the Information Society's fund. Questions about the use of this fund's returns will be discussed in the big economic message in the Church that will be presented in the new year. I think it is a great advantage that this question is considered in conjunction with other questions that the message will address, so that the various questions can be discussed within a whole, which the Committee on Budgetary Control pointed out last year as important. Finally, as the Council of State, I would like to say that I am impressed by the way in which the Committee has carried out this work, and the basis on which they have given me and the Ministry as the Council of State to continue working.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e942	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e945	It was just to be lacking that the Council of State was not satisfied with getting a somewhat better financial basis to move on. Most of the posts to the Council of State may be joined by the Workers' Party, but there are some points that need some clarification. And there is one point that the Council of State did not mention, the area that has been most debated during the fall, namely the teacher's wages. Some parties have also reversed their expectations in advance of the spring settlement in such a way that with such a pressure it will do something to meet. I'm glad the council leaves that ball where it's supposed to be, with the parties. But besides pay, the teachers are also concerned not to end up in the KS system. The last teacher’s settlement also provided an opening for local wage fixing. But after what is evident in today's business today, the government is further pressuring to accept more local wage fixing. And my question is how much of the local scheme has been used, since the government is now pushing further in that direction. Otherwise, the Government has the support of the Workers' Party in maintaining teachers in the State tariff area. Finally, with regard to the Research Fund, it is clear that it is of course the long-term research to be undertaken, but the priorities of the Workers' Party have now been endorsed by the Progress Party, so it is a reality. For this reason, the Council of State is also taking this interpretation too far when it says that this should also include scientific equipment and recruitment positions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e956	First, I'd like to be allowed to confirm that it's important that the organs that are going to work on things work with them. And when it comes to wage negotiations, it's clear that it's going to happen in connection with the year's pay bill. What the Council of State thinks – and the research shows – about the wage developments for teachers is reflected in the paper on recruitment. So to the question that the representative Grete Knudsen raises when it comes to negotiating responsibility. It is right that we have a selection of parties that negotiate local wage fixing, about some relationships around local providers, who so far have doctors in the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. And even though of course I have great confidence in the competence we have there, and the wisdom we exercise, I'm going to say that it's not natural for local negotiations to be conducted there. When it comes to the detailed content of those negotiations, I don't think it's right to go into it. It is, as I said, creating a joint selection that we intend to finalise around the turn of the year, and then the final conclusion to the negotiating responsibility will also come. I have noticed the committee leader's clarification of what is the Labour Party's position in relation to the negotiating responsibility. When it comes to the Research Fund, of course, I stick to what is in the committee setting, and decisions that have been taken, but at the same time, there is also a decision from last year's fix, so I would expect the Storting to come back to this when processing the research report.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e968	The progress party is pleased that this time we got our line, we have a few times earlier today had some trouble getting on the line list. I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State to my written question to the Council of State on Braille schoolbooks. The Council of State response dated 12 November 1999 shows that the National Educational Centre has a coordinating responsibility for the development, organisation and production of teaching materials for the feeble and blind students. It also appears that the current year's order was not fully dispatched as late as mid-November. Because the school, as we know, starts in August, this obviously leads to problems, students and teachers. It's an unsustainable situation. In its reply, the Council of State outlines that a bill on the right to be trained in punctuation should be issued within a short period of time and that there should be a bill on this spring 2000. In addition, a new three-year action plan for the development and production of such learning material shall be implemented. It sounds very good, but it will probably be very costly. However, if you look at item 244 in the budget, you can see that the Workers' Party and the Centres are cutting the National Educational Centre by $4 million. kr, and right-hand cutters with 5 mill. kr. Only the Progress Party and SV maintain the appropriations proposed by the Ministry. I would like to ask the Council of State to comment on the soundness of these cuts in the light of the efforts that the Council of State itself has outlined in its response to me, and in the light of the debates that the Council of State has had earlier in this Chamber with the representative Ursula Evje, where the Council of State has pointed out the importance of strengthening the National Educational Centre. If you want a bet, as the Council of State outlines, I can't understand that you can adopt the cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e983	When it comes to learning material for the blind and the feeble, it is unfortunately just what the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen says they were not finished at school. However, I want to highlight and praise those who have worked with the enormous volume of production one has managed to accomplish, it is simply beyond doubling from one year to the next, and it is impressive. But there is still reason to say that we had underestimated that the increase would come as strongly as he did. And there are now some measures in the ministry that will make us all insist that when the next school year starts, we should be as up-to-date as possible. Once the Storting has decided and the Government has said that one should also have teaching material for the blind and the weak and other disabled groups, it is not satisfying and well enough what has happened this year. I take responsibility for this, and will initiate measures to improve it for the next school year. When it applies to the cut that is preferred, we've looked at it in this context as well. If you look at the institution National Educational Centre, there are a lot of areas to cover. We have been through a period of reform, both with further education and with the foundation, with the dramatic implementation of new textbooks in all areas. It has now been completed, i.e. that one can transfer resources to other areas in relation to what has been in the past. Therefore, what the Stortinge does here, after we've gone through it, is justified, and I therefore insist that measures are being taken to improve the situation for the blind and visually impaired from the next school year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e992	The Council of State said in its statement that the government's draft budget was an advance of what was included in the research communication. It must be a truth with significant modifications. The original government proposal meant a serious deterioration in university budgets, and it is gratifying that in the budgetary agreement it is realigned, so that there will be an on-the-spot rest rather than a deterioration in these budgets, because it is an essential part of research. There was a proposal in the draft budget for zero new recruitment posts, while the research report states that there are 150 jobs per job. years for five years to come. It can hardly be called a pre-shooting of the research message. Now the overall picture comes out a little better than what was in the draft budget, and you just have to enjoy it. There are a couple of points in the articles of the Council of State that I would like to clarify. It concerns his comment on the majority's comment on the Academy of Music and the Faculty of Publicities. I understood the wording of the Council of States so that he entered a reservation regarding the obligation to withdraw the objection. There is no such reservation on the part of the majority, and I would like to have confirmed by the Council of State that he also understands it so that it should be done, and that it should be done immediately. On the question of the trade union council to deal with the indoor climate and working environment in the school, which was adopted last year by the Stortinget, the representative Dørum said in her statement that she assumed that the cooperative body set up by the Council of State should be developed into a specialist council. Is it also the opinion of the Council of State that he has gone about creating a cooperative body which will next become a competent body, so that it responds to the requirements of the Stortinge from last year?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1001	When it comes to the ahead-shooting of the research message, I'm talking about volume, and then the numbers that are confirmed by NIFU, clearly there's 7 pst. growth. When the research message was submitted, it was underlined to me that I aimed to implement it in its entirety after Stortinget had treated it. Still, we brought in a lot of growth, but it's quite true that this growth did not come to universities and colleges, but to other parts of the research. So the numbers that are verified are like what I said in my post, and so that's in line with the truth and not the modifications. It is clear, however, that there is an area within the research message that is not covered, but I am talking about volume. When it comes to the understanding of the note on the Music Ball, this area has previously been regulated for educational purposes, public purposes. The objection that lies there has been addressed to the whole area. In the current negotiations, a solution should be found for the Music Ball as requested by the Committee, and then a non-objection should be allowed to expand the area with housing. But the order of the factors is probably not completely indifferent here, and so it's important that we solve this. We have a work going on where the result of the work will come in mid-January, and we expect a decision to be made during January. And then the whole area, like the municipality of NRK and Oslo, could be expanded with housing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1008	According to today's newspapers, there's a crisis at the Academy of Fine Arts, especially at the State Theatre School. The manager has resigned as chairman, and the dean is also in the process of withdrawing, at least as I have understood it. So my question to the Council of State is: does he see this as a dramatic and serious situation, and can we, in the light of the difficult economic situation in which the Academy of Art in Oslo is located, expect us to put a new government in place? I just want to remind you that SV in its draft budget, within the framework, has put in extra funds for the Academy of Fine Arts in Oslo and the School of Fine Arts in Bergen. Then to the reform of competence. The councils referred to the 180 million. NOK that has been added there, and I think that is also good. I think it's some of the better things in this year's budget that we've started that work in a good way. But at the same time, you're proposing a cut at a point between 5 million. NOK 10 million. kr in the travel allowance for adult apprentices, in order to build one place and dig another, and it can have quite serious consequences. We know that there are 1,000 adults who have been dependent on this grant in order to take their professional letter, so in my opinion this can be a serious matter. When the Workers' Party also agrees, I think that there must be an accident at work, and I hope that it is an accident at work, and that it is not a desire to weaken vocational training, as this may be. So a third question to the Council of State. It goes on the framework grant to primary school. I have previously referred to the investigation made by the Teacher Team, and my question is very concrete and correct: I believe that there is a lower limit to the frame hour before he has to intervene, and before he will possibly come back to the Stortinget with a proposal for a minimum standard. If he thinks there's such a lower limit, where does it go?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1022	First to the art ball. Of course, I'm serious about a board pulling around. Now, a department of the Academy of Fine Arts has been appointed by the main board of the Academy of Fine Arts, which has resigned, and of course it is an obligation of the main board of the Academy of Fine Arts to appoint a new board and to arrange for the students to receive the education they will receive. In the end, of course, there is responsibility for me, and it will therefore be followed up. Last year, the Committee and the European Parliament are dealing with the Hajskole reform/convergence. One had no real growth, one had a certain small real downfall. The art ball in Oslo has had a real growth per year. student at approx. 5 pst., but after a year of poor financial management, a very bad one came out. One came out with a minus that's partially fined, but that's a contributing reason for the situation you're in. In the ministry, we're trying to find a common position in terms of understanding numbers, because we have a little bit of a problem with defining them the same way. We're going to work on that to get to a deal. Otherwise, we will carry out the calculations requested by the Stortinget when it relates to the totality of the Globe of Art. When it comes to the question of apprentices, it is quite right that they are put on line with other students and can search the Loan Fund for travel allowances, but then according to the rules that the Loan Fund has, among others. pay will be decisive as to whether or not a person is paid. When it comes to the frame hour, I will come back to it in my report to Stortinget on the basis of the feedback we have received from the education directors. The numbers from the Teacher Layer are alarming, but we have to go deeper into them before I comment on them more specifically.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1033	In relation to what has been said about the Research Fund, I would like to ask the Council of State: if he already has thoughts of using the Fund for more than four priority areas, will he consider coming back to Stortinget with such a case? It might seem that there was some confusion in the answers given. The other area I want to address in this line change is what I mentioned earlier today to Marit Tingelstad about budgetary cooperation. I note that the Council of State is satisfied, even very pleased, with the agreement that is now in place, and the budget that we are now having to deal with here today. The Council of State is well aware that the Labour Party always has a long-term perspective in the actions we are taking, and I would ask the Council of State whether he too will look long-term at school policy and, based on the budget agreement of the year, find it natural to continue cooperation even into the year 2000? Does he not see himself better served by the fact that the Workers' Party is the natural partner in school policy and distribution policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1040	I would like to comment first on the question of the fund. There's a decision to stick to from the creation of the fund. We have presented a big message and a budget, and we have received feedback through the suspension and decision. There is no problem with the four priority areas. They're like what we've been proposing in the research message. When it comes to the second piece, the long-term fundamental research, I have also realized that the Workers' Party and the plurality of today, which is with the Progress Party, are also busy with the same thing. Of course, I'm going to follow the budget decision, but before these priorities are finally put into practice, I'm going to wait for the Stortinge to deal with the research message. I think it's important that one sees all of these things in context, and I want, as I said in my post, to follow up the four priority areas, but based on what the Storing said earlier, and based on what I also understood from the multiples, it's important with the long-term, fundamental research in general. So a few words about cooperation. Now, it's not that single-country councils for their own refrigerators express who the Government is going to cooperate with. I'm correcting myself for the agreement that has now been, with which the government is well pleased. Within our sector, I am well pleased with that cooperation. What's important to me is that we think about the long term when it comes to the big lines of education policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1049	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1052	As rapporteur for Chapters 200 and 204, I choose to start with these chapters. In the case of cap. 200 – The Ministry of the Church, Education and Research – it is a co-ordinated committee that underlines the importance of prioritising the implementation of the reform of competences, as well as focusing on a new action plan for ICT training. The Committee has also been set up to stress the importance of obtaining, as soon as possible, a final clarification on the legal position of technical colleges. In the case of cap. 204 – The Parental Committee of Primary Schools – is the Committee’s hope that the new organisation of the FUG will give a more freer position in relation to the Ministry. In the long term, an evaluation of the functioning of this reorganisation is needed. In the past, the size has had high ambitions for FUG, and the business needs to be evaluated against this. Among the proposals of the Progress Party, a proposal will be made to create a new entry under the Chapter of the FUG. This we want to be a commitment to research on the subject of children and the legal security of families in relation to the public system, including child protection, SFO and school. In recent times, we have seen a number of protests, political markers and considerable media attention around the resource situation in school. The school mainly depends on the priorities of municipalities and county policies in the fight for the crowns – they will range from health, roads, culture and other measures with which the Stortinget obliges the municipalities to operate and their own priorities. As the Progress Party sees it, one cannot expect to get the necessary resources to the school if one does not make sure to streamline and prioritise strictly in the Municipality of Norway. In addition, Stortinget has to stop imposing unnecessary costs on municipalities. One of the areas with which the majority of the population have ordered the municipalities to operate is the cultural and music schools. These are new, cost-effective measures in municipalities, which in many cases had an excellent functioning private culture and music school life from before. This legislation imposes increased expenditure on municipalities, which necessarily have to be taken from other priority areas, for example: primary school activities. I stress that the Progress Party welcomes the offer of music and culture to children and young people. Corps, song, dance, etc. is important for children and young people. However, we find it strange that in a desperate situation of resources, the school should be given priority to this task. I therefore find it strange that no other party has signalled support for our proposal to repeal the Law of 19 June 1997 No. 83 on music and culture schools. Similar assessments have been made in relation to the SFO scheme and state and municipal support for it. As we see it, this is only about a pure child's password, which lays hold of large resources that could otherwise have been spent on education. I can also mention other areas where we propose significant cuts, including: in relation to the special treatment of co-workers, persons of Finnish origin, third-world migrant mother tongue training, etc. In a school system where we can't do the basic tasks, such as ensuring students with proper Norwegian knowledge, mathematics, etc., these areas should not be given priority. The Advance Party also cuts in the state bureaucracy – in the department and in the training offices. We cut the state support for hobby courses. We cut out special measures for North Norway, school services in prisons, county folk colleges, Women's University, Norwegian Peace Centres, etc., not necessarily because these are measures that are so bad, but we want to use the funds that exist, on what we think are more important tasks in School-Norway. My colleague, Ursula Evje, mentioned some of the areas we want to give priority to. I want to add some: We suggest strengthening the safety training of fishermen.We want to make it much more attractive for companies and businesses to take in apprentices.We strengthen the centre of expertise for special education. We raise private schools to an equivalent level in relation to the public, as has been done in Sweden.We strengthen private higher education institutions. We strengthen the Church.We also strengthen research in fisheries, aquaculture and agriculture.As mentioned above, we strengthen the Parental Committee for Primary School.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1102	The government's proposal for a budget was a misguided one in view of the fact that the election campaign in the fall became a competition for which party would be most committed to education and competence. There is no reason to be satisfied with next year's government budget, as the representative Wohnning tried to present it earlier in the debate, but the reconciliation between the centre and the Labour Party was a step in the right direction. Here in the main hall, the school day can seem far away and little concrete to us politicians. But we know that in these days, municipalities and county councils put the last hand on their budgets for the next year. It's not a good job for our local politicians. Never before have I received so many messages about large cuts in municipal and county budgets. And we now know that school and education must suffer. Several counties are approaching threatening 300 pst. in their scope of further training. This is a real crisis, not least for our adult educational seekers. The handling of St.meld. No 32 for 1998-99 showed us that we need to focus extra nets on this group. And not enough with that, by decision today also the travel incentive for adult apprentices and practice candidates is discontinued. This isn't the working party happy for. The decision will primarily affect those who live in pig-grown strips, and those who want to take a diploma in what we call small subjects. It will also involve a change in the premise of those who have already signed a contract and are learning. I am sorry that it has not been closed to reach an agreement with the government party in this area. In order to improve the removal of the travel incentive, it is important to introduce a limited examination right for a transitional period for course organisers conducting training at the continuing school level. I would like to underline the importance of giving young people a clay spherical offer in the time of their basic schooling. My hope is that the host municipalities now perceive the Storting's signal as a positive handshake and a willingness to maintain this offer at an acceptable level, so that the municipalities do not drag in the teacher's position, and that the clay ball system is thus going to slide seriously. The clay potion has a long history, and the setback has been silent since 1993. The size has, in several respects, stated that the Stortinget's goal is to have all the elementary schools experienced at least once in the elementary school, but the scheme is now about to fall due to the lack of adjustment of state support and poor security in the management documents. That's why it's so important to review this thoroughly in the spring of next year. It should not be necessary to address this question two to three times a year if we think anything of what we have previously agreed. That the municipalities are struggling with the economy has caused the lack of state transfers in relation to state regulations. When e.g. For example, there is a large gap between the country’s transfer and the real cost to the municipalities of teaching clay schools, such as cultural and music schools, education related to refugees and immigrants and prison education — to name a few areas. It is important that these areas are now reviewed and evaluated by representative selections in the near future, so that the Storting has a better basis for making reassessments of its size. Three days ago, we were able to slip over big sports performances on the handball court. In addition, we have seen good results both in the ski tracks and in the alpine hills. High interest has been recorded in establishing top-level provision of sport in combination with continuing training. Above all, there is a great commitment to start up such offerings in Tromsø and Bergen. In part, there may have been different economic conditions for the private upper secondary education and the corresponding provision in the public sector. I am pleased that today it will be decided that we will now have a review of the different aspects of future top-level sport in the further education, that one among others. will look at funding and quality assurance and that we will have an assessment of the need for student places based on the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic Summit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1119	In a line earlier today, I went into the Progress Party a little bit and gave them some credit, because in the same way that the Right stresses the value of being different. But at the same time, I was a visitor to them and owed them to think that that inequality was tolerated only if it was based on the fact that the 'different' are like all of us. I refer in particular to as an example the Progress Party’s comment that the ultimate priority will be to actions related to joint national knowledge dissemination. This is illustrated by the fact that the Sámi curriculum for 1997 is not among these measures. This isn't a big schooling issue, but I thought this case might show how different we are when it concerns humanity and understanding for other cultures, which are pretty fundamental when it relates to the difference between the Progress Party and the Right. I notice that I did not get an answer from the representative, Evje, to any of the two specific questions I asked in that context, where I started by saying that the Right obviously does not want anyone to be forced to have a Sami curriculum. It's unfair for those who don't want it, but it's just as unfair if we deny the Sami people training in their own native language. They must have a curriculum that supports their culture. The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has later repeated his view of the Progress Party without being concrete, and I would like to have a comment from the Progress Party in that area. Another area that has been mentioned earlier today, but which has been slightly commented on, is that of the art spheres. So from the right-hand side, what we're doing here is we're adding 5 million. kr extra as an immediate measure, because we cannot live with the situation we have in the art spheres over the next year. It applies both in Oslo and in Bergen. But in addition – and I am very happy that the committee is gathered on – we are now asking for a review of the situation, because we cannot each fall have a situation going on where the provision of education does not meet objectives, where the provision of education is being reduced, and where the security of the future is minimal. A third point I would like to record is a field as a multiple in Stortinget. This is the case with the trade union council, which is to be a body to provide professional advice to municipalities and other school owners when it comes to indoor climate and building standards. What's really important for Right is to ensure a working environment for the elephants and for teachers who can get the best out of it. Here, the Government will respond with a "cooperation body" where a lot of organisations will gather in a council that may be able to associate themselves with professional expertise. I did not think – and we have also stated this in our comments – that this is a response to the important decision that the Stortinget made. And when the representative Anneliese Dørum said earlier today that this cooperative body should develop into a trade union council, I thought we were going to go very long and far around before we come to the point, that part of the problems in schools are due to the fact that there is too little money. But it is shown that a very large part is also due to a lack of knowledge and lack of professional advice. What was in the Right's support for the proposal was clearly a professional council of professionals and not a body made up of a lot of organizations, which could be good, but would not be able to provide a good enough supply. Finally, the representative, Oppebøen Hansen, was in the previous article talking nicely about the top sports offer, and the representative, Oppebøen Hansen and his colleagues in the Labour Party, have been doing so for many years. But every time they've had the chance, they've been there and they've voted on the two proposals to develop this offer. The only thing is to get rid of the roof that the government proposed and the big crowd decided last year on 810 elephants. The second is that there has to be more financial support in here. Only then can we realize the supply. in Tromsø and in Bergen and the extension of Kongswinger, for which Right now goes in. Now it's no longer possible to postpone and hold people with good talk, now we have to take action.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1134	This budgetary agreement is the first budgetary conciliation after the centre came into government, which has actually led to an increased investment in education. It shows that the other parties may be good at talking, but it's the Workers' Party that has thus been pushed through an actual increased investment in education. We've had a total of NOK 1 billion more to the municipalities. The free income, which is the money spent on primary school, has increased by 500 million. kr. When the Municipal Councils say that cuts in the local economy mainly affect the school, yes, we expect that strengthening the local economy will lead primarily to increased investment in education. In addition, we've had a We have more than a double investment in student housing. With this budget agreement, 1000 student housing can be built for next year. It has also been established in the agreement that in this expansion housing in Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stord should be given priority. As far as student housing is concerned, I would like to stress that a majority – all the parties except the Advance Party – already last year asked the Government to present an action plan for increased investment in student housing, and that we repeat this this year. So last year's joint statement has not been followed up yet, and I would ask the Council of State to present such an action plan since next year's budget. One of the most important issues for which we in the Workers' Party have had an impact is the introduction of a free school book loan scheme in high school. For the year 2000, we've had a This means that the Workers' Party has had an impact on a case that the majority of people have voted down four times only during this large-scale period. But this time we got through, and I'm happy and proud of that. Cooperation between the central government and the Workers' Party has therefore meant that we have a budget that is better for young people and for education. At the same time, however, I would like to stress that this budget is very close enough. There is a need for greater investment in primary school, not least because many schools are struggling with poor indoor climate. There is a need for a greater investment in higher education, including: in order to employ more teachers in the school classes. There is a need to continue to increase the commitment to the school leisure system. – I could still do that. But there is one area I want to highlight in particular, and then I'm glad that the Minister of Fisheries is sitting in the Chamber, the Minister of Education doesn't do it right now. This concerns the safety training of fishermen. Here, the Government had proposed a severe cut, almost half of the grant, which should be partially covered by introducing a partial share of this security training. There is evidence that security training has helped to save lives, while 10 of the 15 who died last year were missing security training. Nevertheless, it is difficult to motivate fishermen to take safety training. There is no reason to believe that introducing a propensity will make it easier to recruit people for training. The working party is therefore in favour of introducing a partial share of safety training. First of all, we believe that it should be possible to accept a lower activity in 2000 in order to say no to introduce excess. Unfortunately, it was not possible to implement it without it being contrary to the budget agreement. That's what I think is sad, and I'm disappointed that it had to be this way. Worst of all, it can have tragic consequences. I would therefore urge Lilletun and also the Minister of Fisheries as much as I can, to innovate that there is actually a majority in this Chamber who are actually opposed to the introduction of a propensity, and I would ask the Council of State to take a new assessment already in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1157	Norway has rights and responsibilities for some of the world’s most productive coastal and marine areas. This provides a unique starting point for value creation based on renewable marine resources and a large coastal industry. The Ministry of Fisheries's commitment to fisheries and aquaculture research has as its overall objective the development of knowledge to trigger this potential for value creation. Research aimed at innovation and development shall contribute to strengthening industry profitability and competitiveness. At the same time, fisheries authorities focus on ensuring that research and monitoring provide the best possible knowledge base for the management of Norwegian resources and marine areas. Action in this area provides a central basis for national and international advice on the exploitation of fish stocks. The main challenge for resource research in the future is to reduce the uncertainty of scientific advice on the status and development of fish stocks. Many of the regulated bottom fish stocks, especially in the North Sea, are now outside safe biological limits, and this underlines the need to strengthen administrative research. The government has in St.meld. No 39 for 1998-99, Research at a time, put up a special effort in four areas over the next few years, including marine research. The Ministry of Fisheries budget for 2000 has a follow-up device. The first stage of construction of a new marine research vessel constitutes the largest single measure in the field of marine R & D. Research vessels shall be a platform for monitoring the marine and coastal environment, the marine biological resources and their coherence. The new vessel will be faster, more stationary and with more possibilities for use than today’s vessel. This will provide the basis for safer research data. It is a prerequisite that the new vessel can be used both by the Institute of Marine Research and the University of Bergen. This requires close cooperation between these institutions during the design phase. The purpose of cooperation is to facilitate the more efficient operation of the overall fleet and to reduce the overall operating costs in the long term. The design is planned so that cost estimates based on concrete tenders will be available in the summer of 2000 and the start of construction will take place in 2000. The cost framework is provisionally estimated at 250 million. kr, and the ship is scheduled to be completed in 2002. The final cost framework will be presented to the Stortinget in 2000. The development of methods for ecosystem and resource consulting approaches will require efforts to develop methods for stock monitoring, stocking and forecasting, with particular emphasis on the quantification of uncertainty. New stocking models will focus on increased use of environmental data, data from fishing fleets and other relevant information. The 2000 budget provides additional resources to strengthen this research area. Marine farming poses special challenges for the increased production of high-quality seafood and new industrial developments. In the 2000 budget, the Ministry of Fisheries is stepping up efforts to develop the shellfish industry. There is a need for new seawater inlets at the Austevoll Maritime Station. I join the majority of the committee in favour of setting aside for this purpose, through a re-priority from the start-up appropriations to the research vessel, at 7 million. kr in accordance with the initial draft budget of the Ministry of Fisheries. Finally, I would like to stress my satisfaction with the Committee's generally positive feedback on the commitment made by the Government to marine R & D through the Research Communication and the Ministry of Fisheries budget. Norway has a clear comparative advantage in the marine sector, and concentration of national R & D efforts and investment in marine R & D are key factors in the further development of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1178	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1181	I am very pleased that the Minister for Fisheries is taking part in the budget debate of the Education Committee, and I choose to interpret it as a signal that the piece of research in his budget is something that is being put into the ministry. We know that it is the marine industry that probably has to carry Norway into the years ahead. It's this industry it's going to be the largest growth in the future, and the growth will come in that way that there's going to be as much use for wise heads as there are today for strong fists. Then we are dependent on a strong growth in research on farming and fishing. In the budget position, we have managed to prioritize marine research. Both in the general comments on research and on the use of the Research Fund, the Labour Party and the Progress Party, of all, are all about getting a more concrete commitment. Although the Central Party of the Committee is not involved in that comment, I assume that the Council of State thinks it is okay, and that he will help us in the future to ensure a stepping up of marine research. In this context, I would like to stress that it is important that the Council of State now ensures that the two major environments in Norway, i.e. Fisheries Research in Tromsø and the Marine Research Institute in Bergen, are calm. Now we're experiencing a pretty constant squabbling between the two environments about who's going to do what. That should be unnecessary. At a time when you know that we're going to get more and more tasks to focus on, it should not be necessary to create a virtually petty dispute between the two environments. I hope that the Council of State can help us get a division of labour between the two environments that make us calm, and that they can concentrate on doing research instead of arguing with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1188	Let me say it so that I feel proud to be in Stortinget when the research committee, as we call it, deals with the budget. And I think that the division of labour that Stortinget has done has helped to raise marine research to the same level as any other research in the country. When it comes to the question of the Research Fund, I would say that we have such good cooperation in the Government and are so in agreement with the effort it has made in the Research Communication, that I really do not feel any obligation from the Stortinget to the Government to highlight marine research. The cooperation between the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Education, Education and Research in that area seems to me to have been very good. This is reflected both in the Research Communication and elsewhere in the budgets provided by the Government, where marine research has been highlighted. I want to say it this way: it is also important for marine research that it is invested in basic research, and it is the universities that are the basis for it. It is very important for the follow-up to administrative research and R & D in the fisheries industry that basic research results are available for further development. But of course, I'm satisfied, and I think the Council of State Jon Lilletun is not dissatisfied with the fact that the Stortinget has said what they say about the use of research funds. I just want to stress that there are often very few distinctions between marine research and other research, because there is a broad field of competence in the marine sector. So there should really be no conflict between disciplines. They interfere very much with each other. As for the cooperation between Tromsø and Bergen, I deal with the governments of those institutions, and the directors. There are no conflicts at that level. If there is concern, it is at underlying levels within institutions, but it can be based on misunderstandings. It's a good cooperation, and there's a co-operation between the two institutions in Tromsø and in Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1199	One of the serious points that the cooperation between the government party and the Workers' Party leads to is the introduction of a feature of fishermen's security training. The representative of Konglevoll has commented on this in an article saying that there are multiples in this room against such an attribute. That's good to right. But what are the consequences of this? The representative of Konglevoll is likely today to vote against the proposal as well. The right is behind, which in plain text says: ‘Proportion of the safety training of fishermen is not introduced.’ I have a certain understanding that people don't always have the great confidence in us politicians when we say we're for one thing, and then vote against it. What is the problem here, according to what Mr Konglevoll says, is a budgetary agreement, but there may well be some obstacles in it, as our proposal says that this should be within the framework, either by lower activity or by improving efficiency in other areas. So I would like to see the right Minister of Fisheries' view of what this development will be like. The second thing I want to comment on from the Minister for Fisheries – and I am also very pleased that he is present when the Kuf budget is debated – is this with the future and recruitment of the fisheries industry, which will also be an important part of the marine environment in the future. There's a lot of things that have to happen when it comes to working conditions and working conditions in order to get young, good people in. It has a boat type, working and living conditions on board and other things that the Minister for Fisheries knows very well about, to do – we are not going to do that here – but we also have a tradition in many parts of the Norwegian fishing industry that education is not always seen as something necessary to become a fisherman. And I think that, given the future of the professional Norwegian marine industries, we need to take a serious look at that. So I would also like to have a few words about how the Council of State is thinking of attacking this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1213	: When safety training for fishermen was introduced, there was something new and necessary. It was suggested that all some and twenty fishermen over a few years were to undergo safety training. It probably went relatively fast for some of the participating fishermen, but it's stopped a little bit. And it might not have been intended that the fishing industry would in the future be specifically treated in relation to other industries in terms of who would bear the costs of safety training. I see it as not unreasonable to impose a requirement on the fishing industry that they also bear a share of the costs of what has to do with safety – as other maritime industries have to take all their costs. I also think it can raise awareness that they will have to take part of the cost of safety training for those who are to man a fishing vessel when they are there. There'll be a better rationality over that, and the fishermen will be more aware of having it implemented. It is not that it must necessarily be the individual fisherman who has to pay the costs. It is a shipowner's responsibility, and a responsibility for the skipper on each ship, that the crew he has with him has undergone a safety course. It may solve the situation of other industries by requiring shipowners to take responsibility for the crew they carry to meet the training and certification requirements. Then we'll see how we can get a pressure on the industry to complete the assigned security training for the crew. As far as recruitment is concerned, it is clear that the fishing industry is facing a completely new time gap with the introduction of Reform 94, where in the future it will only be recruited from high school. I think there's a problem with the industry. They have not been good enough to focus on the opportunities that the industry has and that they can offer to newly educated young people. However, we are working on this in the Ministry of Fisheries, and there is also a part of the Communication on the evaluation of higher education for treatment in the Stortinge, which will provide a greater opportunity for fishing fleets in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1222	With regard to the very last state council, bringing people with skills into the industry, it's not just about those who are in high school. Maybe there's an even bigger problem with people with a high level of competence. What we see is that it's pretty hard to get people educated at universities, like fishing candidates or in other directions in the marine sector. It's pretty hard to recruit them into the industry. They tend to cling to institutions, and it's a problem that we have to take seriously. But what I was going to speak for was actually going into the polemics of security training. Now it's not what the representative Løvik says in his reply to the Council of State, 100 p.m. correct, because what he forgets to say is that the proposal put forward by the Right, SV and the Advance Party will lead to a halving of the activity, according to letters received from the Minister of Education – a halving of the activity, and it cannot be an exemplary effort to ensure that security training is provided in place. But what is the case is that in the Storting it is really so that a majority is extremely skeptical to introduce excesses in this security training. There are arguments that fishermen and shipowners should also take their share of the economy in this. They do that by paying an accomplice on a trip and stay. So they're in and they're already paying. It's possible in the future to introduce a proportion more generally, but I think that now is the worst possible time to do it, when we look at the years that we have behind us, how incredibly difficult it has been to motivate fishermen to take this education. They have even been against having that education for many years, but once they begin to drift to take the education, a proponent is introduced. If there is no proposal to that effect today, I hope that the Minister for Fisheries will help keep this matter warm internally in the Government, follow developments, and if you get a very negative trend, you can make a new assessment to see if you are going to remove the excess, if it can be an instrument to ensure that more people take the security training.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1231	Now there is security training at various institutions across the country, and we have the mobile system at the maritime college in Tromsø. I know that there are some of the high schools that are conducting certificate-oriented training against the fishing fleet and that have safety training. A concept has been developed in which complete safety courses can be offered for an overall crew on the vessel on which they are employed. So there may be a lot of solutions that can come up now when fishermen may have to take part of the costs, and they see that it's the most rational way to meet the safety training requirements. But it is clear that developments will be closely followed, both from the Ministry of Fisheries and the Minister of Fisheries, and I will also guarantee the Minister of Church, Education and Research. We're going to talk about it and see what's going on, to make sure what's most important: that it's being conducted, and that the fishermen follow up and take the courses they're required to attend as a crew in the fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1237	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1240	Is our education system dynamic enough? Do we intend to take inwards the changes that shape business and society? Do we intend to take inward the pace of these processes of change? We are still talking about this so-called paradigm shift, the transition from the industrial community to the knowledge society. Now, a lot of people would say that the expression "knowledge society" is going to be a mockery both to previous generations and to future generations, because it's like a long time needed to have an up-to-date knowledge. But what's certain, at least, is that the transitions and the speed are so great that the need for ever-increasing knowledge may be greater than ever. If the researchers are right, we need to create 800,000 new jobs over a 20-year period. Little mention is made of the need for and the pace of change, driven by new markets, new technologies, new products and the internationalisation of the economy. In trying to obtain 800,000 new jobs, it is clear that we need to try to stimulate some of the new growth industries. The representative Norvoll was in the marine sector. There is an enormous potential. There is also a relatively high potential in these so-called knowledge-intensive and technology-based industries. A particular feature of this industry is that here is the competence that is valued. Competences are being praised over traditional capital. Competence is a defect, and consequently it is also a high price. More than ever, actual education policies are also industrial policies. Then there is a policy to facilitate lifelong learning, an important part of business policy. This will require a much better relationship in the future between education, research and business. The Fornebu project is an example of such an instrument, where one is to create a development environment that will benefit both research, education and industry and can also attract international competences. We have to create such an environment in the regions that connects to the highlights around, either called research parks, business parks or what one might choose to call these different innovation environments. Education policy is an industrial policy, but it is also highly district policy. We see now, for example. in my own district, in Otta, that one who has been closed down to an online education within information technology, within nursing care, within teacher education, which allows these young people and also more mature students to be offered higher and better education in their hometown. The other thing we see with it is that it kind of stimulates business around. There's a development environment around, and they've recorded a lot of new ideas for business, which says they're taking advantage of these new-born young people, and the young people say that they benefit from the business world around them, and together this is a lift for District Norway. I am pleased with what is in the budget statement about an increase in investment in the regional and development spheres around them. I also hope that, in the future, there will be a greater opening for a larger study offer on these inland hake spheres, among others. a civil engineering study at the Högskulen in Gjøvik. I opened by asking the question: Is our education system dynamic enough? It is true that new information technology offers many opportunities, but also some frightening developments. A concrete example is this online teaching that I've been in. Can we prepare ourselves well enough for what will come here, and do we want to control this? What role will our education institutions themselves play in the new system at higher levels of primary education? Because in a few years' time, we will clearly have an online infrastructure across the country that means that the population can get the desired education at a much lower cost than today. So maybe we'll get a whole new shift of power from the educational institutions to the consumers. There will be competition for the students. We need to have an ongoing discussion about the role of educational institutions in such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1257	Knowledge shall govern the kingdom and the land, it shall be called. I am proud to be a member of a party that continues this very area in the budget. In fact, I believe that the government parties are also pleased to have a budgetary settlement with the Workers' Party, so that this sector is lifted somewhat. For my part of Hedmark, it is now very important to develop higher education. Hedmark has been too low in higher education. Now we've seen how important it is to bet on this education. We have two great teacher schools, one in Elverum and the other in Hamar, both of which complement each other. Elverum high school of teachers received funds for the expansion of the building stock a few years ago. It's time for Hamar. I am pleased that the State Council Lilletun has said that Hamar high school will now have a building that improves the conditions for students and teachers at school, and that this project is being programmed. The conditions of Hamar high school students are now under every criticism. This wears off, and the students have shown patience to the authorities for too long. Governments have visited the school and have seen for themselves how hopeless the teaching situation is at Hamar high school. Knowledge has a self-esteem for the quality of life of the individual. In addition, it can prevent new dividing lines and reduce economic inequalities among people. In the future, in order to create safe and new jobs, we will depend on a well-qualified population. This is why the Labour Party has put a lot of effort into providing the adult population with a good provision of continuing training, followed up in the budget by 180 million. kr as a result of the agreement between the authorities and the social partners. The trade union movement is very concerned about the reform, and I am pleased that the Workers' Party was given a majority to ask the Government to introduce limited tuition rights during a transitional period for course organisers conducting high school education. This is very important for those who take a diploma under the old Section 20 scheme. I would like to ask the Council of State to talk to their government colleagues, so that adults who for several reasons have become involuntarily unemployed, but who are taking a shorter course, do not lose the right to a day's allowance when they take training that can in turn give them permanent work. Many of these people are good adults and need stable income. When they say they're willing to take e.g. a driver’s training course that can provide lasting work, they must not be penalised for it by taking the daily allowance away from them. This does not encourage re-education or additional competence. I hope the Council of State can take this up in the Government. I am also concerned that the grant to adult apprentices who have to leave to take part of the training falls away. This will make the situation economically difficult for adult-established apprentices, and one will have to assess the re-introduction of this scheme as soon as possible if this results in a negative development. I record that the budget agreement has resulted in a few more performances. I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Council of State to allocate one of these posts to the Hamar diocese. The background is that, fortunately, we have an active and highly requested bishop with us. We're very proud of that in our diocese, but it leads to a lot of extra work, and it's therefore necessary to strengthen the manning in our diocese. We're proud of our bishop, and I wish several bishops showed the same tolerance for fellow human beings who have another legend, like Rosemarie Køhn. We need an inclusive church – not a denouncing. The Church's servants should be using Christmas to think about it. So to an important point in the end. When someone has leave, for example: maternity, has an actual entitlement within the social security system. So must it be in the Church. When a pastor has leave, it shall be fully compensated. All rights of society for employees shall also apply in the State Church. I ask the Council of State to confirm exactly this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1276	One of the questions we all have reason to ask is what we're going to live on in the next century. If we look back a little bit, we see that several times in recent history, intensive exploitation of our natural resources has contributed significantly to raising Norway's economy and living standards to its inhabitants. The forest at the end of the 1700s, with the production and sale of wood and timber for ship and house builders, especially in Germany, the Netherlands and England, can serve as a example. Later, Norwegian footfalls were exploited and the last oil and gas deposits were used. These are the natural resources that have placed Norway and the Nordics at the top of wealth statistics. We can still live well with oil and gas, but it's the marine resources we have to prepare to use in the years that come, not because they're inexhaustible, but because they're at least renewable. Although we can see that we are the world's largest exporter of seafood, we can quite clearly say that the potential when it comes to the exploitation of the sea is enormous. There's reason to remember that all life has actually evolved from the sea. Thus, a gene base needs to be mapped and identified to allow us to make good and reasonable use of these resources. One might say that we're barely in the early stages. When I say this, to emphasize that we should be able to take out the potential that I am talking about here, it is research, research and research that must be done. I am very pleased that the Committee has stressed so strongly that marine research should and must be given priority, because that is what is going to give us the good results. If you look at salmon breeding, it is the research effort and the pioneer spirit that have provided us with the results we can show today. Salmon farming has come a long way, but there is no need to relax this research. I'm very pleased that the committee has found room to point out that Matre Marine Station needs new construction. It is important to stress that such a bet must be made soon. To Stortinget's orientation, I would say that this is a bet that is really going to pay off. There is no reason why we should not be able to get the same result when it relates to the rearing of other species, such as: kelvins, cod and shellfish. The management station in Austevoll is now fully financed by the necessary sea water supply and is able to take the necessary steps to get the quail to commercial farming. This may result in results that Norway can literally float on in the years that are coming. Of other species where a research effort is needed, I will name the cod. We know that the cod stock is in crisis when it concerns wild fish, and in fact the prices of cod on the market are higher than on salmon, so we have a lot to get to bet on further research in order to produce the breeding of cod. I'd also like to mention the gravitational sport, which can be a tremendous effort for Norway, a new big industry. The hold must be that when problems occur, which it will certainly do when we get the different fish layers to commercial operations, they must be solved. I'm looking forward to getting a research effort so that we can really meet these challenges. SINTEF in Trondheim, for its part, has estimated that 1 billion per year. years for marine research is what is needed to ensure that the marine sector can really take over when oil ends within a certain period of time. It requires great ability to prioritise from our side, and I am confident that the Education Committee will facilitate the participation of the Stortinge in such a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1297	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1300	At the end of a comprehensive and comprehensive debate on Norwegian school, I will pay particular attention to an important single area: co-location and construction linked to universities and colleges. Councillor Lilletun has indicated in the 2000 budget that the Colleges of Eastfold and Rogaland have been clearly prioritised in terms of their co-location needs, which I fully agree with. The need for co-location with regard to the Østfold High School, at the Halden Brake Facility, has been highlighted for many years, and extensive work has been done to ensure that the co-location of State Building and the administration of the Østfold High School is carried out. A lot of project work has been done. Now there is a need for a start-up grant to move on. I therefore hope that the Council of State, in close cooperation with State Building, will continue this work in 2000, because there is no time to stop these co-location work, as temporary leases for teaching facilities in Halden expire in 2001 and 2002. New premises must then be ready for use. Can the Council of State confirm that such progress could be carried out by State Building on the University of Eastfold? According to the majority remarks made on page 40 of the budget-inner. S. No 12 Eastfold and Rogaland have been given priority in this way, which I understand that the representatives of the Workers' Party are in agreement with. It is impossible to wait longer now for a continuation of these two colleges, and I hope this is possible to get a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1309	I now take the word – it should have been done a while ago – and it concerns ‘volatile connections’, which both the Right and the Left seem to be relatively busy here today. I just want to point out that ‘volatile compounds’ can be of a very valuable nature. Just look at what the perfume industry has done in terms of earnings for both producers and retailers. And if the volatile cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party can lead to something like this for Norwegian research, then everyone should just bend in the dust, and then maybe you should be more volatile both here and here. What we are talking about is not as much volatility as an agreement on very strong priorities in terms of the areas in which we should have international competence. In the budget position on page 44, the members of the Labour Party and the Progress Party say that a priority of the research area cannot be accepted that will make us second-class researchers worldwide. There should be nothing remarkable about this. What may be remarkable is that the Workers' Party originally had a genuine desire to meet the government parties in order to use the fund for investment funds, but we took it out together. The point of progress was of the clear opinion that when you can't spend more than 300 million. kr in the current year's budget, there is little sense in giving them the opportunity to have even more on book. Therefore, perhaps even in budgetary terms, you should read something more than what falls into your eyes with the same opening of the book — even here today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1318	For the Workers' Party, it is important to have an open and inclusive people's church where everyone feels welcome. The state has a responsibility for the resource situation in the Church, and not least for the working conditions of those working there. We have received many signals that the workload is high, and that there is a shortage of personnel in the Church. The Workers' Party is therefore pleased that the cooperation between us and the government parties has led the Church to take on more jobs – in the case of diacons and vicars. It will at least be a step on the way to improving the situation. Then I have a comment on Inge Wohnung, who probably has not understood the majority's remarks about the Information Society's fund. Of course, the majority are aware that the return on the fund's funds should go for church purposes. It's clear in the law. But our point is that a greater part of the return should go for church purposes – a greater part. So it didn't bring Inge Wohnung, but that's the way it is now. Because today, this fund accumulates values. We know that there is a great deal of need in the Church, it needs more resources, and the fund can, among other things. used to rust up churches. So now there is a majority in order to be able to go to the cathedral of Nidarus, which is the only church in the country to receive direct state subsidies, and then you can release these funds for other church purposes. Today's budget is probably between 22 million. And 23 million. kr that goes directly to the cathedral of Nidaro. We also believe that funds from the fund should be able to go to the other church buildings that need to be hurt for upgrading. We know that we have many old, protective buildings with furniture that are due. This is a cultural tax that we have to take care of. The size has asked for an overview of the total economy of the Church, and in this context also an assessment of how the Information Society's fund can be used. And then we also want to know exactly – if possible, but I have the impression that it is very difficult – what values are actually there, because it's about large values in the form of properties, plots, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1331	Strong higher education environments are important for the development of competitive centres throughout the country. Higher education will become an increasingly important element in the development of skills in business and public administration in the coming years. In this way, higher education in Eastfold does not constitute an exception. The co-location of the higher education environment in Eastfold and Halden is very important, not only for students, teachers and other administrations, but for the whole region and the plans for further development of the learning environment in Halden. I am pleased that the Department and the Committee have prioritised this co-location, and that the Lilletun Council may be able to realise its comitology from its time in the Church, Education and Research Committee. The co-location project has been in different budgetary positions from the early 1990s and is per year. date ready for launch. Very well known, the Ministry of Finance has approved the cost framework, but there is a lack of action. I find it natural to recall what the Council of State said in the Questionnaire on 17 December 1997: ‘Both teacher training and the former district school must have at all times more space than they currently have. This is therefore a big construction case.’ And he goes on to say, ‘That is why a clear signal will be given from the Ministry within a short period of time and the project will then be able to be carried forward.’ That the term ‘short-term’ is relative in politics, I have gradually found myself involved. But now patience is on the verge. I choose to perceive this as a promise, which the Council of State Lilletun has not made. It is very disappointing that the Ministry copies the budget setting last year and argues with high pressure on the construction market not to grant a start-up grant. This pressure in the construction industry is not experienced in the Lower Glomma region. On the contrary, it is stated that the assignments are absent and the activity is declining. As the other co-location and expansion projects notified to the Ministry are being prepared, I find little evidence that the situation regarding financial resources should change for the better. This will only mean that more projects will have to wait for start-up appropriations. At the top of this, I record that the Council of State is creating great expectations in its dialogue with new eligible co-location and conversion applicants. On the basis of this, I must express frustration, impatience and disappointment at the progress of the case. It states that the projects are under continuous treatment and that some of the projects will therefore be able to change their location in relation to the priorities of the ministry. On the basis of this, I ask the Council of State, Lilletun, to confirm that the co-location project concerning the University of Eastfold has the highest priority in the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1356	In the budget that we are now nearing the end of the debate, there is a lot of joy. But the most joyous thing is that we are now able to get the education budget to change direction. We don't go far enough, but we've changed direction. Now the Stortinget is also taking a step towards strengthening the single school and moving towards improving the equal rights of education. I think that's good. That's the opposite of what's happened in the last few years of the budget negotiations here in the Grand Duchy, where, once you've come to the Chamber, you've had a cut in the education sector. There has been no successful development. I record that the representatives from the Right claim that if the Government had cooperated with them this year, there would have been great additions in education – in slightly different areas than the Workers' Party chooses, but great additions. We're recording that they're saying that, but can we believe them? Should we? The only thing we have to deal with is what's happened in the last few years, and then the Right has, among other things. be able to negotiate a reduction in the rate of education in favour of other areas. So far – we never get proof of this – I therefore choose to believe that it was good that the centre parties did not fall for the temptations from the Right, because I think that, in fact, it would once again have led to a weakening of education. Some of the most enjoyable points in the budget agreement are that we've got a greater commitment to higher education. I'm going to give you 100 million. kr extra to the universities that will go to recruitment positions, research and conversion, and we will give 20 million. extra to decentralised higher education to ensure that education can be brought out to people living outside school centres. In this context, the Committee points to the project on higher fisheries training in Finnmark, in Honningsvåg and Vardø, which is mid-term in progress. I really hope that this is something that can be continued, and also get started in Vardø. I'll say a few words about this with barley. There has been a lot of debate in this area in the Committee, and there has been a part of the vote. In the previous budget, the committee said that it was in agreement with the Council of State that priority should be given to the constructions in Akershus, Bergen, Bodø, Stavanger, and Østfold. Then the Council of State comes back to this budget and says that Eastfold and Stavanger have the highest priority, and he also mentions Nesna, which is to be seen in a special way. That's all right. But then yesterday, in the debate on changes to the 1999 budget, Stortinget made a decision to use 3.4 million. kr to funds for the design of Akershus, Bergen and Bodø, an intervention to ensure that the buildings were also included, as they had fallen out of the Ministry's priority in this budget. I assume that the Council of State now facilitates the realization of the buildings mentioned by the Committee, so that we can meet the needs that obviously exist in the higher education sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1369	I think it's right as the Labour Party representative pointed out, that the central government brought a very bad school budget to the Stortinget, and that the Labour Party was able to add a few million. I'm glad. But it is far from there and to the need that is in the school today. The ball must be snapped with buttons and glossy images in relation to some other budget areas. Let me mention a couple of examples, for example. from the defence budget. We don't have any current enemy, but the majority will spend 25 billion dollars on the defense. Of them, e.g. $0.5 billion for military intelligence, looking for an enemy that doesn't exist. When it comes to the investments we're going to make in Defense, $12 billion goes to new frigates and $1 billion to new fighter aircraft. The sphere is not prioritised when you look up to it. The same is true of the tax policy in this country. One allows the number of millionaires to grow at tremendous speed, while the schoolings don't keep track of the goal. A pain on an oil fund that is close to $300 billion and says it can't be used to invest in the school. Some of these must be usable. Rolf Reikvam was in his post on the lack of control that we have had in relation to the oil business. We have Åsgard that we're going to deal with here tomorrow, which is $18.1 billion in over-exploitation because one doesn't want to control the business properly. Of these, 11 billion is less in income for the Norwegian people. And if you just think a little bit about that amount, that equals $22,500 to every student in the kids' and youth's school. One can buy a PC for every single student and additionally spend 1500 kroner a year for travel and other things for 10 consecutive years. Something's not right here. SV is going to blow because we want to go from the black oil economy to the green knowledge economy, because we want to spend $1.5 billion to bet on the youth ball, because we have money for everything, it's called it. No, in fact, SV has priorities that make it possible for us to invest in education. And that's what the other party on the Biggest should also learn to do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1383	The debate and the vote show that the Government is supported by its main priorities in the budget. I am pleased with that. However, when I take the floor, it is because the representative Wohnning tried to tempt the government parties with many red apples, if we had cooperated with the Right. Several of the measures are also likely to be tempting, but what would the price be? I do not experience the Right Budgetary Statement for the year 2000 as an invitation to cooperation. Right-wing tax reliefs are needed here. Such reliefs combined with increased investment in education had required savings in other areas that the Christian People's Party could not accept. We could therefore face a situation in 1999, where the Right had to choose between increased schooling and tax relief. In such a situation, I think the Right would have chosen tax relief, as they did in the 1999 budget. Otherwise I noticed the post from the representative Fallet, where she wanted more performances and improved working conditions in the Church. I think the whole committee and the state council noticed that. With regard to the use of the Information Society's fund, I agree with the Representative for Wage, and will come back to it in the consideration of the announcement of the Church Economy. I have also noticed that the Progress Party guarantees 500 student housing annually in the future. It doesn't correspond to any extra bet, as the majority says. In addition, the Progress Party refers the students to the rental market. I am sure that the students do not feel that the Progress Party is providing good help in a difficult housing situation. Finally, like Mr Norvoll, I would like to express my delight at the increase in universities. Funds for conversion, research and recruitment, including: in the field of medicine, are necessary measures. All in all, I note that the Stortinget is now adopting a budget with which the contracting partners are satisfied and with which I will characterise as a good centre budget for the school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1400	It would never fall upon me to lead the Christian People's Party into temptation, and all the least by means of apples. There are known unlucky role models for this kind of thing, and I assume that both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have enough Bible knowledge to know. What I have found is that the budgetary conciliation of the central government this time has chosen to join the Workers' Party, has given a rather sad result for Norwegian education and research. It was so characteristic when Marit Tingelstad of the Center Party said instead that when the Workers' Party could swallow the entire cash support, the centre parties could swallow 100 million. from the window of an expensive and expensive lending scheme for textbooks. It's an interesting picture, because if the cash support is a camel, well these 100 million are just a dromedary to swallow, but some particularly forward-looking form of politics is probably hardly enough from any of the sides. A small note to the representative Dørum, who claimed that I must have misunderstood what is said about the use of the Information Service's fund. I don't think so. In fact, it says that there must be a greater share of the return for church purposes, and if we agree that 100 pst. the yield shall be used and used for church purposes, it shall be appropriate to increase that proportion further. But I understand that this is simply a way of saying things that can be misunderstood, and that what you mean is something else, namely that you want to pump more into instant operation instead of adding values of a more long-term nature. In that case, I fundamentally disagree with that. But what's the real difference is that the majority and the representative Dørum, who says that she has neither an overview of the fund's values nor its returns in detail, nevertheless wants to dictate their use before getting the overview of the Church's total economy. To the question of the use of the Research and Innovation Fund: I am pleased with the clarification given by the Council of State in its understanding of the proposal for decisions of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party. But let me make it clear that I would not consider it appropriate if the size of the annual budgetary positions were to establish an improvised majority in order to expand, or involve the criteria for the application of the rate of return of this fund. If there were to be general practice, in each Right’s interest in building up this fund will be significantly less than it has been so far. This is not the way to pursue a forward-looking research policy. Finally, only a slight question to the Council of State. Is what is being said today in today's business on the Council of State's position on the question of negotiating responsibility to teachers correct, or is that not correct?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1418	Now, at the end of the debate, I will comment on some issues that have emerged along the way. When the Workers' Party has not stressed how good it is on the research side, it is because we see that the Council of State has included both international research programmes that have not previously been included in the budgets and calculated in the percentage promises, as well as a building in Trondheim. So we're really not sure if this means a rise. What we know is that there has to be a completely different promise on the research side – but we'll have time to get back to that. When Inge Wohnung is resilient in setting its premises for the research fund, we need to be aware that the Workers' Party, which initiated this fund, had expected it to be a long-term one – it should be in addition to the ordinary budgets, and it should have a certain facility in priority areas. We have mentioned the priority areas in the position, both last year and this year, so this year we received support for that very point from the Progress Party. Of course, every party is working to get through their wishes, and now the Storting – after voting here today – has got what they want in the area. And I'm assuming that the Council of State is dealing with that. In the course of the process, there have also been questions as to whether it should be possible to use the Fund for scientific equipment in order to meet the Council of State in that area. But when the Council's own government parties did not support it, it fell in the process, so that the Council of State now actually has to ask to get back to that very relationship. In this respect, I think it is all right to await the suspension of the Research Communication, but so far, the Council of State does not have access to include scientific equipment in the priorities. Then I hope that the Council of State here at the end of the debate can say something about the Academy of Fine Arts. We can't have it so that there's a group of students who are now going for half of their education and are using most of their cancers to go to the Stortinget to get rid of a very difficult situation. We need to clarify that in the 2000 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1431	As a representative of a party that is the best friend of the education sector, I have to ask the Council of State a question. I hope that the Council of State will come along, and that he will take the time to respond to this in concrete terms. We in the Progress Party are very concerned that we should have good cooperation between the sectors. We know that both the cultural sector and the education sector are responsible for our three ‘smart ambassadors’, ‘Christian Radich’, ‘Southern’ and ‘Statsraad Lehmkuhl’ – this is almost from one Council of State to another. I just want a confirmation from the Lilletun Council that what was said in the debate on Friday, 19 March 1999, about a proposal that the Progress Party raised to find a permanent arrangement for our three sailing ships, is being followed up. In that discussion, the following was said by the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa, who was then a substitute for the Minister of Culture: ‘I’ll take with me the commitment that has now been expressed in the hall. Let me also assure the Council that, by referring to the current situation, the Ministry of Culture will follow up this matter through consultations with the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research and the Norwegian Museum Development and Discussions with the three Foundations – i.e. the three foundations for our'sailing ambassadors' – and then report back to the Storting through the budget proposal. ‘... Now we've got the budget proposal. And then I have to ask the Council of State Lilletun, who is responsible for this: where has it been agreed with the three foundations, where the Council of State Lilletun would put in place a permanent system that went on education that these three sailors would take care of? I hope that I get an answer to that, because those who stand behind these three foundations deserve it, and all those who put their souls in preserving the three'sailing ambassadors'.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1443	I feel the need to make some additional comments at the end of the debate – five minutes is little in such a large area. In budgetary terms, one has to give and take, so not everyone will be happy for everything in the budget. I like, for example. not cut in 1 million. kr to public schools. Although the amount will not exceed approx. NOK 12000 per year. school, the signal can be perceived negative, and that is unfortunate. As a former teacher at a public high school, I am well aware of the qualities they stand for, not least their social pedagogical competence, a quality that is very important in our pluralistic and multicultural societies. I choose to describe the cut in public schools as a one-off thing. So a few words about the cut on travel support for adult apprentices. I would have liked to avoid this too, but in a total assessment where one had to make cuts, it was this post that, at my discretion, would do the least damage within the area in question. We must not forget that these are adults who usually make money themselves. Other adults, such as are not entitled to free school kissing — unless the regular school bus leaves. So a little bit about study offers in Inland Norway. I really hope the department and staggering will help the indigenous states get higher education schools soon. I know that colleges are working systematically for this, and that research activity is going to increase. The Ministry has an application from the University of Gjøvik for study facilities in the multimedia area. I really hope that all good forces will work together to get this done. I am familiar with the fact that the Uppland County Municipality has strongly supported this, and that Hedmark County Municipality does the same. This is an important element of the domestic offensive, in which the state and the county councils contribute a great deal of money so that, as they are called, the steaming communities can have new growth and development, so that future generations will want to settle there and the pressure against Oslo and the Akershus region can be dampened.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1456	The representative Arne Lyngstad concluded his post by saying that this is a good center budget for the school. That's the last thing he said in his post. I expect that the mindy Norwegian teachers who have acted during the fall because of lack of resources notice this wording – that this is not just a centre budget, but it is a good centre budget. Neither can one be surprised at such a debate. It puts some people in the middle and emphasizes important things, such as research, etc. The representative of Torstein Rudihagen made a good contribution on the importance of research, on the future knowledge society, etc. He does this clearly without having read the budget, because if we go through the budget bit by bit, we see that there is a certain increase in research appropriations, there is a certain increase in universities and colleges, there is a certain increase in business research, and there is also an increase in our quota for the fifth framework programme of the European Union – quite a few million dollars in addition to the fifth framework programme. One has also contributed a part to construction and such things, so overall there will be some increase in the research budget. But the Storting has previously decided that we should go up to the OECD average level in terms of research. I am not sure that this budget, even with a certain increase, draws us closer to this goal. It's a little dependent on what happens in other countries. But I can't see and believe that with that increase we're getting closer to the goal that we're going to achieve in five years. The government has suggested that we should do it in five years. I'm not sure this first year draws us closer to this average level. For those talking about research in the districts: there is a proposal in the budget to spend 15 million. kr to establish a business university at Fornebu. It is well and good, but around the other Norwegian universities and colleges there is a lot of exciting development work aimed at business and individuals. When SV suggests that this should also be stimulated and supported financially, it is not possible to obtain a majority for it. That's why there's a little bit of cover when representatives from the Workers' Party stress the environments out in District Norway. When we make concrete proposals that these funds should also go to those types of projects, we do not receive support for it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1467	Ursula Evje has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1470	It's supposed to be lightning fast! I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that a majority of the Grand Duchy has adopted the means of design for the co-location of the universities in Akershus, Bergen and Bodø. The fact that we went to that step on the current year's budget means that we give this a very high priority. Work must therefore be started as soon as possible. Will the Council confirm that this design work is being prioritised and initiated and not forgotten or put into a pile?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1477	I can do the last one first. Of course, I'll stick to what the Big One has said when it comes to the design tools of these three marbles. They're different today. For someone the blank option is clear, and for someone it is not. But, of course, for all three hosts, a work will be started in relation to this. What I have further understood is that the main priorities of the department are that the Højskulen in Østfold and the Højskulen in Stavanger should have priority, and that has also been approved. They've come a little bit further, and there we'll use funds from Statsbygg's disposition fund to get the design done. Therefore, I can confirm what Odd Holten asked for, simply whether there is progress in Halden. Yes, when it comes to design, it's progress. We are determined that it will be ready to put the spade in the ground for the next budgetary procedure. Then there was a pretty strong criticism from the representative Morten Olsen. I have to take the whole distance from it. It is easy that it was not promised that construction would start, but that the work would be carried on. It's happened. There is no party on the Stortinget that has suggested that one should start construction work on some hayballs this year. The decision on construction that has been made applies to the Outbuilding, and that is good. Furthermore, decisions have been taken earlier following proposals from the Government on the University of Tromsø, and that work goes on, of course. Therefore, there is no party on Stortinget that has suggested that one start building this year. Why? I assume they're some of the government in that one from the public shouldn't overwhelm more than what is already. But I hope these marbles don't have to wait too long, because that's quite right what Morten Olsen and Odd Holten said when, for example. concerns Eastfold and the need there in relation to the contracts under way. So until the representative inge Wohnung's question about today's look-up is right. No, we don't have a job, but we have negotiations with the teachers' organisations where we want to see how we can organise this under different circumstances. And then it'll be a final conclusion. When it comes to the chairperson of the committee, the representative Grete Knudsen, it is not right that she says that it does not already have an international research programme, construction, etc. We're in. Of course, it is essential for the research that the real science building in Trondheim is packed with new scientific equipment. It's always been calculated by NIFU's calculations how high the level of research is. Furthermore, what the representative, Mr Requam, says is that we are unable to get closer to the OECD, but for the first time in many, many years we are holding the post. And why don't we go further? Well, that's because the gross domestic product because of the oil price increases as much as it does. Otherwise, we had a draw this year. There's a growth of 7 pst. And it's real. Then I have to ask for the floor again, because I think I have to give the representatives justice by answering some questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1494	It shall be noted. Anneliese Dørum has had the word twice before, and gets the word to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1500	First, I want to assure the Council of State that the Santa Claus question for the Akershus High School is clear. The municipality has made land available, and I therefore assume that State Building will immediately acquire the land, so that this project can be continued. Then to the representative on the payroll. First of all, pay says 100 pst. of the profits of the Information Society Fund have been used for ecclesiastical purposes. Then I would ask him to read the budget proposal where it appears that 40 million. kr is set aside as a fund. As far as the fund's properties are concerned, it also comes out of the budget proposal, and I'm of course aware of what it says. But I think the Council of State agrees with me that the valuation of the fund's over 600 properties, which has a total area of over one million dean, is unclear, it's not really valued. It's important that it is done. In the case of the cash, it's clearly what's there, it's NOK 1.2 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1509	The representative Eirin Faldet held an exciting article in relation to the needs of the church, the work situation of the priests in the church. She is, of course, very correct in what she said. The Church, along with many governmental bodies, has a certain lack of discretion. A person does not have an ordinary health care system and an ordinary way of getting sick. A work is in progress to change this, not only for the Church, but also for too many governmental activities. We hope it's going to be more conservative than it is now. In relation to the art ball, which the representative Grete Knudsen asked for, we've tried to do well for what's the situation, and it's actually one of the public spheres that's increased most in recent years. That's why we think it's partly the financial management that makes one come into this situation. But at the same time, of course, the board of directors of the university has to make sure that it is taught according to the curriculum, and it is my ultimate responsibility to do so. We have a dialogue with the highlight to get a common understanding of the basics of the subject. And then I want to do as the Storting has asked, that in the context of the revised national budget, we come up with a case where one does the best thing for this, and also goes through the bit that has to do with the merger. Does it correspond to expectations? Has it led to the fact that a person has spent a lot of money on administration rather than on what is his main assignment, education? We will then try to answer that question, as the committee has asked for. So to Vidar Kleppe and the schoolship. In the Ministry of Culture this is mentioned, as it was warned by the functioning Minister of Culture in the answer from which the representative Kleppe quoted. Furthermore, we are working on a work where we have now approved a training scheme for Christian Radich after private school. We are also waiting for applications from the other two in relation to the same thing. So we're working on it. Of course, what has been the lead is to find — and it is important — arrangements for these national jewellery that the representative Kleppe is talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1518	No pay is given the word of a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1521	I thank the Council of State for the answer when it comes to looking up today's business, but the answer didn't make me much wiser. The Council of State said that the notice is not correct, but that they are negotiating with the teachers. Yes, that's exactly what the statement says. But what the council did not say was what he was negotiating about. And when I asked, it was really to get the opportunity to give the council a good advice. If it is true that he is thinking about laying down an intermediate solution where the negotiating responsibility is shared between the state and the municipalities, then I would advise him to think about at least one more time. Sharing responsibilities very rarely leads to clearer responsibilities. And that's exactly what's needed, if you're going to get a development in this area. So a small comment again on this proposal on the application of the Research and Innovation Fund. What I made clear was that it is not desirable to use this as a draw game by means of annual decisions in the Storting and to reduce the criteria that will apply to its use. And that is where my objection to the Labour Party procedure lies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1530	When an answer does not provide the necessary clarification, it may have two reasons. Reasons may be the nature of the answer. There is another possibility, and it goes on the receiver. In this case, I will probably admit that I believe the reason was perhaps with the Council of State. It is not possible to give a proper answer to what an actual negotiator is about. When it comes to sharing responsibility, there may be a problem, but at the same time there are not so few institutions in our nation and otherwise where one has shared responsibility, and it goes if it's well defined and the responsibility is well clarified, but then one way to define it properly in advance. That is why my previous answer says that this is a matter we intend to be finished early in the new year in order for it to come in good time before next year's negotiations. So to the research fund, where it has been part and parcel of the committee's comment and the decision that will be taken here. I refer to what I said in my post and in response to the replies from the representatives Grete Knudsen and Rune Kristiansen, but I also refer to the commissioner's post where she made it clear that she saw it as natural that a now awaits the processing of the research messages in Stortinget. It is a way of working with which the Council of State is well pleased. Then one will in a sense have a healthy research policy in the future, which I hope is clearly defined for many years to come, so that it is not as the representative of Wage was afraid that one year after another, the environment outside does not know where they are. But for me, it's good to stick to what the committee leader said, that at least we didn't put into action the use of any part until the Storting is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1541	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1458]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1555	I will briefly make a mistake in the table below the summary from the proposal on page 30 of the setting. The correct figure in the second column for Project Investment Loans in the Nordic Investment Bank shall be NOK 2786 408 000, i.e. One billion dollars more than what's in the table.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1562	I will not extend the debate, just bring up the suggestions that SV has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1567	Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1570	On behalf of the Right, without prolonging the debate, I shall address the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1575	Petter Løvik has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1509]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1591	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1521]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1605	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1521]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1619	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1521]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1633	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1521]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1638	The President makes it clear that the time for the morning meeting is soon to come. The President proposes that the meeting continue until today's map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1649	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1655	A total of 22 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 8-20, by Mr Ursula Evje, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, by Inge Wohnung, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 3, 21 and 22, by Rolf Requam, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 4, by Grete Knudsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 5, by Ursula Evje on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Left Party, proposal No. 6, by Ursula Evje, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 7, from Inge Wage on behalf of the Right and Socialist Left Party The President will first address the framework-independent minority proposals. Arne Lyngstad – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1684	A brief explanation of vote: I would recommend that the representatives of the government parties vote against all minority proposals and for the vote with the exception of XII, XIV and XVII. As far as XII is concerned, we are voting against it because we believe it falls within the responsibility of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1692	The president thinks she's caught up with the different parties' wishes to vote in favour and against the vote, so it should be possible to do it without explanations of vote. Then we are ready for the vote. We start with the proposals No. 21 and 22, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asked for different resource allocation models in which each primary school class receives a minimum number of hours based on a basic resource with one or more additional resources depending on different variables. The number of pupils in the class must be included as a variable in all alternatives. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a separate case for student loan repayment based on income.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1715	The proposals are then put to the vote. 8-20, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the introduction of professional qualifications in all subjects at school from 5th grade onwards.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to amend the House Bank’s rules on loans for the construction of student and student housing, so that projects in areas under land pressure and high land prices are not stopped due to the Bank’s loan rules.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to grant educational institutions a general exemption from public legislation and rules on employment, and to recast the legislation of the public education institutions, so as to facilitate the adaptation of the workforce to the needs of the education market at all times.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the use of punishment, detention and expulsion in primary schools is increased for shorter or longer periods in constant cases of fighting, vandalism, violence, etc. based on the Training Act.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for concrete action to be taken by the Government in the field of class management and adulthood so that users on a national basis are given a common basis in respect of life, health and property, behaviour and respect for teachers and fellow students. The whole of the elementary education step must be covered by the above.’; Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a modified funding model in primary school, so that the money follows the student – one price – rather than the framework finance, and that all primary public schools are transformed into responsible economic units with their own directors. Private primary and home school services with professional secrecy shall be treated in the same way as public schools.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The government asks the Government to propose a modified funding model for secondary schools, so that the money follows the student – a single price – instead of the framework funding. Public secondary schools become responsible economic holdings with their own boards. Private secondary schools shall be treated as public when it comes to financial matters.’;» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide a model in which Norwegian universities and higher education institutions are transformed into responsible holdings.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a funding model for higher education, based on the price principle that the learning funds follow the student.Midders for basic research are financed directly to the institution regardless of student numbers.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government to submit proposals for the repeal of the Law of 19 June 1997 No. 83 [[on music and culture schools]] Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the legislation on the granting of support for adult training within the study associations with a view to concentrating state-subsidised activities in this sector on the courses that are clearly professional and competent. The course of a hobby character shall not be supported.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative and regulatory changes in order to deduct the tax return on interest and repayment on student loans.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a model covering 30 pst. and the private party 70 pst. expenditure on approved research programmes in priority areas.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1795	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 7, from the Right and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Excellent research centres should be established as proposed in the Research Communication. The location of centres should be carried out after the Research Council has determined how the scheme should be designed.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1809	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose measures to stimulate the states to establish IB lines.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1823	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proportion of fishermen’s safety training is not introduced.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1837	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the safety training of fishermen in the 2001 State budget if the introduction of a propensity leads to a negative development of the business.’ Here the President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right and the Socialist Left will vote in favour of this proposal since their own proposal has fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e1855	It shall now be contested over the framework area 17 and the corresponding minority proposals. We start with proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I The State budget for 2000 provides for: Chapter.PostDestinationCronesCronesExpenditure200Ministry of the Church, Education and Research [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2410)]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e7027	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2000 is authorised under: Chapter.PostDestinationCronesCronesExpenditure200Ministry of the Church, Education and Research [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2410)]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e12207	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2000 is authorised under: Chapter.PostDestinationCronesCronesExpenditure200Ministry of the Church, Education and Research [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2410)]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e22572	Here the Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e22592	Here the Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e22621	Here the Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e22638	Here the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e22655	Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e22673	Here the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e22690	Here the Right has announced that they will vote against. Inge Wohnung – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e22695	This is a proposal for which it is unnecessary to vote, but it is even more unnecessary to vote against. That is why I would recommend the right-wing group to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e22725	Here the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e22737	So, case No. 1 have been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e22743	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Petter Løvik on behalf of the Right the proposals No 2 and 3, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The proposals of the Socialist Left Party are first addressed to voting. Proposal No. 2 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e23822	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proposals outside the framework areasThe budget’s 90 entriesThe State budget for 2000 is allocated under: Cape Town PostFormålKroner2412Norwegian State House Bank [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5320 and 5620)]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e25179	Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e25191	The Committee's position under C, which relates to decisions outside the framework areas, shall then be called into question, in particular the 90-items of the State budget. Since we are now outside the framework area, there will be some fragmentation in the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e25339	Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e25446	Here the Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e25553	Here the Right Party and the Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e25563	The President sees that the total number of votes varies on a case-by-case basis and asks the representatives to concentrate so that everyone gets a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e26011	Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e26777	Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against, and the President assumes that the same might apply to the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e26780	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e26787	This is part of the agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party, which also supports SV.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e26794	Then the Socialist Left Party will also vote against the X and XI of the option.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e26811	Here the President has understood it so that the Socialist Left Party will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e26819	So, case No. 2 have been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e26825	There is a vote on the proposal from the representative, Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 7 December 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to further assess whether the principle established in the Skandia judgment should be fully applied to the total resources of Norwegian insurance companies. Such an assessment should be submitted together with the results of the 4th Banking Commission’s inquiry’;» The right has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e26843	There is a vote on the proposal from the representative, Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of Odelsting on 7 December 1999: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose the lifting of the ownership and voting rights restrictions of financial institutions governed by the Finance Act, Sections 2 to 2 and 2 to 4’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e26859	There is a vote on the proposal from the representative, Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of Odelsting on 7 December 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to draft proposals for a new provision in the Financial Activities Act in line with the requirements of the EU Directives for supervisory authorities to recognise the owners of significant holdings in credit institutions and insurance companies’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e26875	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by the representative of Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right, submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 7 December 1999: 'The Council asks the Government to submit as soon as possible proposals for amendments to the Law of 10 June 1988 No. 40 on financial activities and financial institutions so that Norwegian or non-resident financial institutions or other than financial institutions may hold holdings of up to 30 p.m. of the share capital or voting rights of a financial institution’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e26889	The representative of Inge Wohnning has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e26892	I'm sorry, but it went very quickly with the vote on the Roman number proposals in case no. 1, and I was unfortunately not aware that a wrong information had come to the President regarding XVII. The right should have voted against and not for. I'm sorry about this, it was my inattentiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e26897	If Stortinget doesn't have anything against it, the president will suggest that we take that vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e26900	I suspect that the same was the case in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Progress Party should not have voted against the Committee's position under Framework 22 but for – the President had been misinformed there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e26905	The President is trying to look at the person in charge of the vote to be absolutely sure of his assumptions, and he expects to get a negative signal back if the President is wrong – so it's case no. 2, Framework Area 22. If the Storting accepts that, the President will propose that we also do new voting here. A new vote doesn't change anything about the results, but it might be a good thing that the parties appear with the votes they want to appear with. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. Then we start with a new vote over XVII in case no. 1, which has now indicated that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e26921	Then we go to new voting in case no. 2 on Framework Area 22, which has now been announced by the Advance Party that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-15.ana.ud1672e26934	There is no record.
