ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e56	The called alternates, for the Northern Province of Benn Mikalsen and for the Eastern Province of Morten Olsen, have taken their seats. Before the proceedings are brought, the President will propose that the Storting should depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and vote collectively after the case has been brought. 1 – 4 has been completed and then total voting according to case No. 5 and 6 on today's map. No objections have been raised to this proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e78	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 60 minutes, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party 25 minutes each, Right 20 minutes, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes each, Left 5 minutes and the representative Benn Mikalsen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e89	At the outset, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for an orderly budgetary procedure, although probably several members of the Committee did not find the budgetary procedure particularly inspiring this time either. The current budgetary procedure in the United Kingdom has completely exceeded the margin of influence and prioritisation. The Social Committee has budgetary responsibilities, covering mainly the entire Norwegian population in different areas. The members of the Committee possess considerable professional knowledge and understanding in terms of health, social issues, care and pension problems, without any recourse to such knowledge, as is now provided for in the budgetary procedure of the Committees. The current budgetary position in the case of Frameworks 15 and 16 amounts to a total of approx. DKK 180 billion. After the Committee's three weeks of intensive work on the budget, there is now a change in relation to the starting point of 24 million. kr, or 0,13 per million of the total budget framework. I do not hesitate to characterise this as a parody of a proper committee treatment of a trade union budget. The so-called sacred budgetary balance sheet also comes in a strange light when in last year's balancing proposition, St.prp. No 30, records that the originally adopted state budget for 1999, adopted in the autumn of 1998, shows an exceedance of a total of DKK 12.5 billion, which in turn causes a deterioration of the oil fund of DKK 11.2 billion. In the autumn of 1998 it was produced as a national disaster when, for example, some of the oil money was spent on health and care. This time, the Progress Party has chosen not to present a figure budget within the agreed framework, finding that the framework does not allow for sound and necessary health and social policies in 2000. In my opinion, if this type of treatment of the State budget is to continue, it should be assessed whether the frameworks 15 and 16 can not be seen together. It would give the Committee greater opportunity to prioritise in a far better and more accurate way than the current situation. I note with concern that the current budgetary position is not at all – in the form of increased resource availability – going to solve the health crisis that one is not just facing in 2000 but that one is already in the middle of it. I refer to the public hospitals" expected budget deficit for 1999, which will amount to less than NOK 1 billion. It is not only the government that is responsible for this situation, but also, to the most extent, the majority of the population, who for very many years under different governments have not provided the hospitals with enough resources. Finally, the long health cows are the responsibility of the majority of the population. The government has announced a communication on the value base of our health and care policies. It's good and good if there's more than floss – like, for example, the patient first. The merciful Samaritan not only made sure that the victim was treated, but also paid for the treatment itself. There's something to follow. I will continue to comment little on the current budgetary position, but only refer to the PP's principal draft budget for the framework 15 and 16 included in the vote. However, I would like to comment on some of the issues in the current budgetary position. In the comment of the Progress Party in the New Rikshospital setting, the term ‘candal project’ has been used. Some people probably think these are tough words, but the Riksrevision Document No. 3:7 for 1999-2000 largely confirms all entries made from the Progress Party fraction in the adjustment. I also refer to what the chairman of the control committee said to today's business Thursday, December 9: ‘I think there is quite a hard criticism of State Building, but also by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Labour and Administration’ I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that a hearing is now being held in the Committee on Control, and I would like to wait for further comments to be made on this consultation to be carried out and see what consequences it will have to have in terms of policy. On behalf of the Progress Party, I have raised in the present position some issues that I would like to have a political discussion of, and which I would like to comment briefly on in the following: I would first like to say how pleased I am that a unanimous committee in the form of proposals asks the Government to discuss with the Regional Health and Social Committee, Region Nord, how the operation of the Competence Centre for Eating Disorders at the Regional Hospital in Tromsø can be maintained. This competence centre in Tromsø, the only one in the country for eating disorders, was now in the process of being dismantled if a funding system was not put in place so that operations could continue. A medical discipline that I have listed in the present setting is among other things. the general microbiological discipline, which needs to be reinforced, in particular given that we have already had growing problems with both ‘old’ and ‘new’ infectious diseases that appear to be resistant to common antibiotics for several years. I would like to say that I am pleased that the Committee has also found it appropriate to point out this problem. In addition, I have been asked to have a formalized approval of an influenza centre at Haukeland Hospital in Bergen, which has also been mentioned positively by an overall committee in a note. I have also addressed the problem of the replanting surgery, which is currently linked to the Rikshospital as a nationwide function, but which the department has now decided to divide between Ullevål Hospital and the Rikshospital under one direction. The replanting centre at the Rikshospitale is the only nationwide facility for recaptured body parts. It has a high professional standard and results that are at a high international level. The professional expertise at the Rikshospitalet is very little satisfied with the administrative change made by the Ministry. In this context, I would like to point out that it may not be entirely correct that this division of reproductive surgery between Ullevål Hospital and the Rikshospitale is made in agreement with the specialist. It is also an important point in this context to point out that as late as 11 February 1999, the State Health Authority concluded that the national function of complex reproductive surgery at the present Rikshospital would be maintained by moving into the new Rikshospital. Unfortunately, it was not possible to obtain a majority in the Committee in order to maintain the section in the Rikshospital, with only the Right and the Socialist Left joining the note of the Progress Party. Last week’s strong focus on the country’s entry into a serious health crisis due to major hospital deficits in 1999 and significantly less expected income from the ISF scheme in 2000, has indeed shaken the political environment here in the United Kingdom. As the Progress Party sees it, the main reason for the hospital's serious economic crisis in 1999 is that according to Storting's intentions, hospitals with input-based funding, namely 50 pst. the coverage for the treatment carried out has not been satisfactorily followed up by the Ministry in respect of payments to the counties. In St. prp. No 1 further changes have been made by the Ministry to the legislation on the 2000 input-based funding by raising the threshold from 1 pst. to 2 pst., but at the same time reduced unit prices by 3.1 pst. and adjusted the cost weights by 3 pst. In addition, an efficiency requirement of a total of 180 million has been introduced. kr. Amendments to the legislation shall, according to the budget proposal, give budgetary neutrality. To say in a popular way, I believe that the change in legislation actually means that ISF revenue has been taken into account, which I refer to as the cutting-off of frames. The intention of the size scheme was to increase production and a simple and predictable regulatory framework. The input-based funding has been effective and has provided significant production gains, but this has naturally given the country greater counts. That it costs more to treat more patients, it's just the department that doesn't seem to understand. I would also like to come back to the input-based funding mechanism in connection with the treatment of St.prp. No 13 later today. As the Progress Party sees it, there will have to be major structural and organisational changes in our public hospital in the coming years. The Ministry has already announced a notification of the release and the form of association for public hospitals based on the Sørensen investigation. The size also expects to be addressed in the emergency response, where one should take a stand for the future and function of local hospitals. In the context of the exemption of public hospitals and association in the form of municipal enterprises, AS or foundations, the Progress Party considers that one must also separate the ordering role from the producer role and introduce tendering arrangements for hospital services. There is reason to believe that the development of genetic and biotechnology will lead to major changes in both prevention and curative medicine from the embryonic stage to the adult age. With regard to the further development of genetic and biotechnology, on behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to advise the Minister of Health to see something more positive about what genetic and biotechnology can provide us with positive opportunities, both in terms of the prevention and treatment of various diseases, including heritable diseases, from the embryonic stage. It is very important, as the Progress Party sees, that Norwegian doctors and Norwegian medical research communities have the same research opportunities as doctors and researchers outside their borders, so that Norwegian professional environments are also at all times up to date internationally. I have no sense of the kind of morality that accepts that we in Norway should use foreign research results in our patient treatment – results that we ourselves do not find ethically acceptable to provide. Norway should not nationally favour such restrictive legislation in this area as to prevent Norwegian citizens from being able to participate in the rapid development of this technology. I will finally give tribute to this government, and in particular to the Minister of Health, for the initiative and follow-up made in terms of pain management, special care and life support to people with serious, fatal suffering, and I support the recommendations made in this context by the Life Aid Committee that the Government was given reduced, and that has given up its position, which is now pricelessly followed up by the Government. Finally, I would like to mention the proposals that the Progress Party, together with other parties, has promoted in the vote, as well as the own proposals of the Progress Party. I also ask for the following proposals for transmission proposals: No. 23, 24, 25, 35, and 36.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e139	John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e144	It is sometimes difficult to understand the internal context of the Progress Party's policy. The Progress Party is the first to demand better services, higher care factor, better equipment, no excesses – price-worthy requirements – but at the same time it cuts down on the economy of counties and municipalities and thus their ability to meet the price-priced demands for better health and care provision. According to the policy of the Progress Party, the people's rights must be the money to pay for higher and more generous pensions, for free hospital choice, free home choice, public or private – it must be financed through fees. How high these must be, there is nothing said about it. At the same time, the Progress Party is against taxes and taxes. Retorical favors The party of progress to call itself the little man's party. At the same time, they must create a market square where the individual can shop for health and care services with a bag of money from the public interest. At the same time, all social research shows that it is just the weak in society that falls outside the market, as the representative Alvheim also stated at the 1995 Progress Party National Meeting. Then he said: It is part of this country that does not appear in the market square of the Progress Party. Can the Chairman of the Committee explain this lack of logic that permeates the policy of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e153	It was above all a political contribution the representative Britt Hildeng now made, and hardly any particular lineage. It is definitely wrong to claim that the Progress Party reduces transfers to the county municipalities. If you want to go into the budget last year and the budget for this year, you will find – and it is quality assured from the Statistical Central Bureau – that the county councils and municipalities would actually get more to do with our principal budget. With regard to the weak in the country, that is a very interesting question. The welfare policy and general policy of the Workers' Party are always based on public transfers to people in paid employment. Indeed, the Workers' Party commits all governmental and public transfers to professional activity. And it's clear that when such large public sums are transferred that way, there will be very little left for the weak in society. And if there is any party in this Chamber that, through the budgetary procedure and through various other decisions, stands on the side of the weak in this country, it is really the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e162	I'm going to continue a little bit about transfers to the government, and to the county councils in particular. In the draft budget, the Progress Party points out that it has a net increase in the appropriations in the health and care sector of NOK 3209 billion. The Progress Party is adding SEK 2.2 billion to the effort-driven funding, but also subtracts this amount from the framework transfers into the Ministry of Public Health budget, so that the reduction is the same as DKK 2.2 billion in health. Is this included and adjusted for when the Progress Party refers to its net figures for the health and care sector? The party of progress further states in its general comments, among other things. the following: ‘The problems in the Norwegian health care system with lack of treatment capacity and growing health cows as well as large differences in elderly care are mainly due to the following factors:’ – and then comes as the first point: ‘ – decentralised hospitalisation...’ Does that mean that the Progress Party is now moving towards the decentralised hospital structure that we have, and will put down more local hospitals to make the health system more effective? The Party also states in its comments that: ‘...these members believe that, in particular, the psychiatry in the municipalities has sufficient professionals.’ Does the Progress Party really mean this, and what kind of professional judgements are based on in the case of the party in terms of having enough professionals in the psychiatry?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e183	When we propose an allocation of over DKK 2 billion for input-based funding, it is in the context that we will increase the share from 50 to 60 pst. And it has been raised beyond any doubt that all hospital directors and, in part, county councils believe that the ISF percentage is too low to cover the basic costs that hospitals have, which are to be taken from a frame of 50 pst. The larger the production becomes, the more the framework goes. And it's a fact that at the moment there's a brake pad when it comes to producing more than you do per. the date of issue. It is a rather strange question that the representative Glow Violence asks the Progress Party about the future of the local hospitals. If there are any in this room in addition to the Center Party who have fought for the future of the local hospitals and to maintain the operation of the emergency functions as it is at the moment, it is the Progress Party. When we talk about decentralised management, it is to remove the hospital operation from the county municipalities. That's what's in our comments in the setting. Fortunately, more and more people, including in the central political environment here in the United Kingdom, believe that this is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e190	There is no reasonable reason to doubt that the chairperson of the Committee is committed to more funding for hospitals. There have also been a number of proposals for funding from the Progress Party which have gone on providing more funds to hospitals. What I want to record is to a large extent two-part. One is in relation to the cost development of hospitals and the development we have seen in recent years, which is, to a large extent, a development in line with the model of the Progress Party. Effort-driven funding has been provided and, in parallel, cost explosions have been specifically related to regional hospitals, but where measurement of efficiency with different figures does not make the corresponding use of resources visible. In the case of Samdata from SINTEF Unimed, I record what they describe when it comes to input-driven financing or with two test hospitals. The result of the evaluation was also that there was no impact on the effectiveness of the unit price experiment. The only question I want to ask Alvheim is: can Alvheim in other ways make visible that the effort-driven funding has given an efficiency gain compared to the resources that have been put in? In addition, in line with the question of Gløtvold, I would like to ask Alvheim how the Progress Party intends to solve the current crisis in the municipalities, both in terms of the lack of recruitment among municipal doctors and the lack of recruitment in the case of psychiatric professionals. And how has Alvheim, with its model, intended to ensure medical coverage in the municipalities before the introduction of the fixed medical system? After all, both the Right and the Advance Party will have postponed the whole scheme until it has been covered, and will make proposals to that effect, namely: ‘The decision requests the Government to defer the adoption of the fixed medical scheme until the municipalities have received adequate general medical coverage’. What is the model of the Progress Party for proper general medical coverage, so that the fixed medical system can then be introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e204	I am pleased that the representative, Mr Ballo, from this chair, openly admits that the development of health policy has been moving in the direction of the Progress Party in recent years. It's just too late, it should have gone a lot faster with our political stance on health policy. Then I think we'd come a lot further than we at the moment have come in terms of offering people treatment within a reasonable time. The representative of Ballo believes that the ISF has been introduced with less efficiency. It has even been confirmed several times by the Ministry and the Minister of Health that since 1 July 1997 and throughout 1998 this system has resulted in much more treatments than before and has been reduced by half the so-called waiting time guarantee, so that the effect of this system is, in my opinion, indisputable, but it can be even better if a regulation is adapted to what was originally intended by the Storting. Yes, we are opposed to implementing the fixed medical scheme from 1 January 2001. We consider it to be irresponsible when we currently have a deficiency of 545 general practitioners in relation to this scheme. If you're going to start this and you're assuming that you might be added to 70-75 general practitioners in 2000, you're left with a deficiency of over 400 doctors. This means that a lot of municipalities must be suspended from the start, especially in pig-grown areas. With regard to the tools for recruitment to the primary medical care system, first of all, I believe this with the fixed medical system is a major problem, and then we have to resort to positive measures, not coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e215	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e219	The budget we are dealing with today has a growth of a total of $11.5 billion. Increases in payments for pensions, disability benefits and sick pay represent the largest share. The expenditure of the welfare state, our safety net for old age and disease, is growing sharply every year. We know that these costs will continue to grow in the years to come. This will call for better solutions, better use of resources and better organisation. We must dare to be bold in order to prioritize what is most important. Norway has a stronger economic backbone than most other countries to meet the major welfare challenges of the future, resulting from the growth of the number of elderly and the new medical options. But I think it will be absolutely necessary to modernise more sectors with a view to annual cost reductions in order to give priority to the welfare state. The Labour Party also believes that those who really have a lot to travel with have to contribute more to the social security fund, while at the same time the lowest wage earners feel that it is worth working by exempting themselves from tax burdens. Tax policy is, to the greatest extent, social policy and anti-balancing policy. The redistribution that lies in the agreement is a step in the right direction. There will be a major political challenge in the future to ensure that all citizens are provided with equivalent services irrespective of age, residence, income and social background. Here, the Labour Party and the Centre often have similar opinions. That is why, in my view, the budgetary conciliation is positive and represents a continuation of a cooperation which has taken place at least throughout my time in the Social Committee. At the same time, we must invest more in our most important assets: the human resources. Our greatest wealth and hope for the future lies in youth. Therefore, they must be given the best opportunities for development and education. But the rest of the population also need to be guaranteed opportunities for empowerment, so that the nation can have a competent and interventional workforce that can provide value to the country. Here lies our greatest fortune. The authorities, employers and employees must work together to develop a senior policy so that society can benefit more fully from the enormous resources and experience of older workers. The government has a large responsibility to provide a sufficient number of health and care professionals, and I assume that this work is being followed up and continuously reinforced. I want to show you, in particular, the local authority's emphasis on the right person in the right place. These include: the importance of freeing up costly medical work by placing more emphasis on commercial staff. The Labour Party will be a driving force for employment to receive people who need to get into part or full work. The combination of work and social security needs to be facilitated. This is now said often, and too little happens. Ethics limits, forms and legislation may seem more important than finding good practical solutions for individuals. I believe that the employee and employer organisations have a lot to contribute in terms of practical organisation. Isolation from other people and non-participation in society are pathogens in themselves and do not bring our society forward. In the context of the Cohesion Communication, we will continue to work on these issues, and political will and action are needed to move from talk to action. Everything indicates that much remains. The Labour Party is pleased that the older people’s message, promoted by the Jagland Government in 1997, now appears to be being followed up satisfactorily, and that the pace of the development of the offers is as intended. There has been a broad consensus in Stortinget about investing in the development of services for the elderly and caregivers, but here we have seen that many municipalities are slowing down. This is a field where I believe that earring and close follow-up have been absolutely necessary to ensure equivalent offers. The same applies to the supply to people with mental illness, who have been down-prioritized for many years. Here it remains a lot before we can say that we have offers that are worthy of the welfare state. The size gave its support to a relatively long-term escalation plan — in fact, it extends over three major periods. This must not lead to a deferral policy in which the Government is pushing so much in front of them that future governments do not find room for them within their budgetary frameworks. The fixed medical system, adopted by the Stortinget in 1997, will contribute to greater safety and continuity in the patient-medical relationship and will improve the ability of primary doctors to follow-up each patient on a professional basis. The working party emphasises that this should provide Norwegian patients with a better quality primary health service and greater safety, in particular for the elderly, families with children and for people with chronic and complex disorders. Lack of medical labour needs to be addressed through increased educational capacity, better use of medical time, recruitment from abroad and specific measures in the outlying municipalities. The successful pilot projects carried out in four municipalities in this country and the year-on-year extension of the fixed medical scheme in Denmark and the United Kingdom indicate that the fixed medical scheme cannot now be pushed forward in time. The Norwegian Medical Association has for the most part announced that the ongoing postponement of a legally adopted decision on landfill creates uncertainty and reinforces the problem of recruitment to the districts. It is therefore now the responsibility of both the Council of State and the Medical Association to follow the timetable so that the reform can be implemented on 1 January 2001, as the Government warns, and three and a half years after the adoption of the decision. I very much welcome the unanimous support of Stortinget for a binding escalation plan for medical research. In our neighbouring countries, medical research is devoted two to three times as much as in Norway. The plan of escalation must aim to enable Norwegian medical research to match the best in the world in a few years' time in order to ensure Norwegian patients the best offers and to contribute to innovation for the benefit of the world community. The escalation plan must also include measures to improve the recruitment of medical research. The large budget deficits at the hospitals have marked the news in the last few weeks. Health Minister Dagfinn Højbrätten has had to endure strong criticism for his handling of the hospital economy. The Social Committee notes that DRG unit prices are essential for the state’s reimbursement of county municipalities and thus the income side of hospitals. A broad majority of the Committee considers that it is unfortunate that the basis for the unit price is only mentioned in a short section of the Government’s budget proposal and that this does not provide the Storting with a real basis for pricing decisions. The size has also been questioned as to whether an economic basis has been laid for activity growth next year, as the Minister of Health has announced. I would like to remind you that it is the Storting that decides on the appropriations, and that it is the duty of the Council of State to provide the Storting with the best possible basis for decision-making. I assume that the Council of State has noticed this criticism, and that the Council of State today is clarifying whether he will follow up the Storting's injunction on a new practice. The working party has put a lot of emphasis on improving the situation for hospitals. In the opinion of the Social Committee on the State budget, we are calling for new measures. The entire Committee notes that the Government needs to do a better job in order to ensure that hospitals are provided with a predictable and adequate payment for the treatment of patients, and asks, among other things: on the following: a review of the actual costs of patient treatment in close contact with the KS and the hospitalowners in order to arrive at a common understanding of how the income system works to increase predictability for the states by failing to change the rules of the game during the year; And finally, Stortinget requires the Minister of Health to explain the situation in the Grand Duchy and to provide us with a new basis for decision making and, if necessary, to propose additional appropriations for 2000. The Committee is committed to actions of both a long-term and short-term nature. With regard to the long-term, I have noticed that the Council of State has already made contact with the KS to improve dialogue and understanding. It is good, but it is also very necessary to explain the size of the financial base for next year, so that drastic reductions in patient treatment can be avoided. It is true that the Minister of Health so often points out that hospitals have received more money throughout the 1990s and that more patients are treated for each year. But we also need to be humble about the fact that many people have to wait too long for treatment, and that very sick people have to be treated in the hospital corridors. I hope that the uprising we have now experienced from grassroots, and the criticism from Stortinget can contribute to a more solid economic foundation for our public hospitals in the future and strengthen confidence in the Norwegian hospital system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e273	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e276	From the highest management team in the Labour Party, it was stated that the hospital crisis took off – with visits to Oslo from the regional hospitals with the press conference and the whole – that the Labour Party was not aware of this situation before entering into the budgetary agreement. I have to interpret such a statement as saying that if you had known this, you would have provided more money for the hospitals in the present state budget. But that hasn't happened. In connection with St.prp. No 13 for 1999-2000, which we will deal with later today, the Labour Party has not put in any money at all. They have joined a minimum amount that the government parties submitted. Then these statements come in a wonderful light. In addition to that, I would like to say that it must then only be the Workers' Party in this room that has not been aware of the crisis that has developed in public hospitals this year. We have been notified this over and over again, and then you cannot now come and say that we were not aware of this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e285	First, I would like to remind you that the majority of the population in the current year and last year consisted of the centre parties, the Right and the Advance Party, so that the difficult situation in which hospitals are per year. to this day, the Party for Progress has, to the greatest extent, a responsibility for it. As regards the municipal economic structure, the Workers' Party has always invested more money than the Advance Party. The great thing is that the Progress Party is trying to produce it so that it is those who have the most resources for the health sector, when it is actually the case that other parties have more to put in. We have also added NOK 1 billion to the budget agreement to the municipalities and also more money to the county municipalities and regional hospitals. But it became clear when the county councils started working on the budgets for next year and got through the technically complicated calculations for the effort-driven financing, that the picture looked rather gloomy. But we are dealing with the Government, because it is in the division of labour between big business and government that it is the government that makes proposals. So we have to trust that that number material and that calculations for an activity growth of 2 pst. to which the Government has submitted, votes, until the Government informs us otherwise. That's how the division of labour is between government and growth, and we have to trust it. That is where we have come into doubt, and that is also why the criticism has been raised here today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e294	It is true that there is a division of labour between accumulation and government, but there can be no doubt that the Storting and the different parties of the Storting have an independent responsibility for assessing the situation, not only on the basis of the government, but also on an independent basis. Unlike the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party have, in fact, for the two years we have worked with the Government, had our alternative budgets where we have shown how it was possible to get a better health care system. It might be a lesson the Workers' Party should take note of. Otherwise, I noticed that Gunhild Eyering was concerned about – and there I agree with her – that we must have a welfare state and a healthcare system that ensures Norwegian patients the best offers, and that we can apply new medical advances. On the basis of such an opinion, I am surprised that the Workers' Party is not involved in the proposal that, among other things, Right, that after waiting five years to get a proper refund scheme for the new expensive cellular anticancer drugs for cancer patients, we now have to get the government on the ground and get a briefing in the Storting. It's a shame we haven't got a deal with these drugs so that Norwegian cancer patients can be treated in the best way possible. It also surprises me that the Workers' Party is in a majority opinion on medicinal products, where they point out that prices to consumers in Norway are higher than the European average level. But that is because we have a very high VAT on medicines as well. When the Workers' Party "considers this to be unfortunate", as it says, both for Norwegian consumers and for the public, does it mean that the Workers' Party is prepared to eliminate or significantly reduce the VAT on medicinal products?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e303	The Labour Party has set up a somewhat different budgetary process than the Right and the Progress Party has done in the previous two years – that is to say. We haven't added up to a double race where we can criticise the maximum we've agreed to vote for, while we have completely different amounts of money to wrap around the country with when we're talking to people – so we're taking responsibility. But it also means that we are prepared to try to get someone, in this case the Minister of Health, on the track, to ensure that hospitals do not tighten up their offers next year. That's the way we work. We're trying to take responsibility for what's going on, and then we're trying to put pressure on us, so that we get a proper arrangement. We believe that this is absolutely necessary and important. As far as the issue of medicinal products is concerned, it is well known that the representative of Hoegh has often made proposals in this area. This may indicate that she has a competence in the field of medicine that surpasses that of most people in this country. That is why we do not have the members of the Workers' Party's fraction – we admit it – so we trust the authorities we have chosen to take care of the medical analysis and take note of it. Of course, we can also point to the desire that a person approve new funds, but we do not think it is a task of a Grand Committee to authorise medicines in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e310	I want to go back to the question that the committee leader was talking about, and which I do not think was adequately answered by Gunhild Eyering. Over the years, regional hospitals in particular have described the economic situation as difficult. It was also described to the Committee at a time when the budgetary agreement was not yet in port. It was therefore with great surprise SV recorded that the Gunhild Eye went out, among other things. in the address paper, and said that this had not been widely informed by Stortinget, for several parties, including SV, that the situation was difficult. What also surprises, however, is how little analytically the Workers' Party goes to work to find out the reasons why there are still exceedances. One thing is that you see that you are now in a crisis that somehow has to be solved. The second is, how do you get out of that crisis? How does the input-driven funding work, to what extent does the cost-driven one work? But my question is still: how was it possible that the Workers' Party, as opposed to almost all other parties in this Chamber, had not received this information from the Regional Hospital owners when a settlement was to be made? And what could be the reason why the Workers' Party, when they get that knowledge, when the Gunhild Eyeman criticises the government parties so strongly, doesn't go out harder to get a deal where you get a high level of funding for this? SV, who believes that something must now be done in relation to that situation, but also bet on something quite different than the hospital sector unilaterally, has a proposal for allocation relating to regional hospitals that is far higher than the Workers' Party's, while Gunhild Eyeyang, who is the one who comes here with the most desperate criticism of information failure, still does not take the consequences of it and makes a proposal to grant that debt to regional hospitals can come down to a real level.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e319	I would like to remind you again that it is actually the current year that the health crisis has peaked, and it is not the Workers' Party that is responsible for the budgetary settlement that was concluded. We actually proposed NOK 1 billion more to the municipalities in the current year's budget, and in the budget agreement this year we received signals that allowed us to push up the transfers to the municipalities by NOK 1 billion for the following year. Now it is true that at a reasonable early stage there were figures from the KS for deficits in the current year. But – and it may have something to do with my background – it’s not that the Storting can easily add to the numbers proposed by different organisations, and that applies to what hospitals report on a need-to-know basis. We have to deal with the fact that we have a responsible government, and we do. That's why we're trying to be formally correct. The councils are going to go round with the KS, and he's said he's willing to do that, and I know he's taken the initiative to do that. We are pleased with that. But we are not entirely satisfied until the Council of State has gone that round and come to Stortinget and brief us on what are the needs, so that we can avoid the closure of departments and other tightening-up measures at our hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e326	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e329	The debate over the last few weeks has been very much concerned about what should not be in the budget we are now discussing. In a situation where there is more investment in hospitals than ever, we are faced with a huge deficit for the year that is soon to end, and gloomy forecasts for the year that comes. It is not new that the hospital economy is strained. Nevertheless, I think we should take the information very seriously. Fortunately, this has also been done on all responsible teams. In consultation with the Government, the Government has proposed an increase for hospitals of nearly one billion dollars in the 1999 budget and has received a majority in the Committee. We'll get back to that. Now it's the 2000 budget. And we all have a common intention to maintain and strengthen both capacity and quality in our hospitals. We don't want the hospital economy to limit the health supply. Then, as mentioned above, we need to take seriously the information from hospitals, among other things. by a systematic review with a view to clarifying the reasons for finding the best remedies so that the situation of the year does not recur. And it's a paradox that this situation has arisen. Contributions to the hospital sector have increased relatively sharply over the 1990s. The State has increased its funding share, in particular through input-driven financing. The county has followed up on increasing activity, and since 1997, payments for input-driven financing have increased by DKK 1.8 billion. There has been a joyful growth in the number of treated patients and a reduction in the number of interruptions to the new waiting period guarantee. Increased activity in 1999 has led the Government to propose an increase in agreed appropriations for hospitals totalling 433 million. kr. The budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party has provided further strengthening of the county councils' framework and also an increase in the regional hospital grant. The Health Minister has announced that he will return to Stortinget with an assessment of the financial situation of the hospitals. Such information will, of course, be more than a summary of the total budget deficit at the country’s hospital. This material needs to be analysed in order to identify reasons that may in turn provide a basis for action to remedy the situation. I am therefore pleased that the Department has provided for a broad review of the financial situation of hospitals, also on the basis of the cooperation group established with the Municipal Councils' Central Association, and where there is a wide participation from the county council and hospitals. I believe that this organisation of work will ensure that the views of the hospitals and county councils come into the work and will provide a better basis for all aspects of the hospital economy and operational situation to emerge. Not only hospitals, but also some hospitals have emergency facilities. This is a kind of cross-border service that should be maintained at least until the emergency notification has been dealt with, and the Committee therefore asks the Government to contribute to the prioritisation and continuation of the activities of municipalities and counties responsible for hospitals within their budgetary framework. The Committee has made only minor changes to the budget proposal. I see this as an expression of the limited scope of the Committee's action under the new Financial Regulation, which the chairman of the Committee made quite clear in his statement, but also of the fact that the budget presented is initially a good budget. The 20-million increase. kr for the reduction and equalisation of the equity payment of training institutions and SEK 4 million. kr in the context of the development of the Glitträklinik, is covered under the same budget chapter. This is done by increasing the proportion of patients with orthopaedic diseases who still pay a much lower proportion than patients with other diagnoses and by one with reference to the strong expenditure growth in reimbursements to private laboratories and x-ray institutes asking the Ministry to reduce their rates. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the main health and social policy action we are taking today is to continue the previously adopted escalation plans for elderly care, cancer, mental health and hospital equipment. Overall, this represents the greatest health and social policy boost in our history. There is a broad political consensus on this, because it concerns areas that have been neglected far too much in the past. But there are also areas of life that affect very many people, both as patients and as relatives. It is also important to continue the increased focus on prevention. This concerns the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion, a wide range of preventive work in the area of alcohol and tobacco, and increased efforts on nutrition and exercise. It is the health policy’s dilemma that prevention usually does not produce immediate results in terms of either health impact or budgetary impact. But the Nordics of the future want to thank us, both for better health and therefore for better health economy. Prevention is to look forward. And at the turn of the millennium, it's natural both with reflections and visions of the future. A hundred years ago, infectious diseases were the leading cause of death in Norway. By the end of the century, everyone realizes that infectious diseases remain the greatest threat to public health globally. Among other problems with resistant microbes, this also poses a threat to Norway. Nor is it difficult to predict that cancer and mental illness will be a major challenge for healthcare even in the coming century. This impression is reinforced by the World Health Organisation’s list of reasons for what is called ‘abbreviated and burdensome lives’. There are depressions, tuberculosis, traffic accidents, alcohol abuse and self-inflicted injuries in the first places. But when I see such an overview of causes of death and suffering, it strikes me that the common denominator of all those mentioned is alcohol. It tells me that there is a need for increased efforts in this area, both with awareness-raising and restrictive measures. And it tells me that lifestyle diseases too will have an increased significance in the next century. If we are to find solutions to tomorrow's health challenges, our health services must have both quality and quantity. And the quality cannot be maintained without research. I am pleased with the clear willingness to invest in medical research that comes from both the Research Communication and the Dimensionation Communication as well as in the budget position of the Social Committee today. In all these contexts, emphasis is placed on medical research as a field of action, with the need for a binding escalation plan and for increased efforts to maintain and strengthen small and vulnerable environments. This is particularly important in a situation where one takes up further student education at the Central Hospital in Akershus. This will mean strengthening medical research in Norway only if the research environments of the other medical faculties are also strengthened. Small environments, which can often be very dependent on individuals, must not be weakened. In this context, it is essential to stimulate research recruitment for these faculties, which train their own academic workforce to a large extent. It is worrying that the number of doctoral degrees is both absolute and relatively lower in Norway than in Denmark, Finland and Sweden, which of course is linked to the investment in this area. We go into the year 2000 with a good health and social budget. The budget does not solve the fundamental and recurring problem, the gap between the medical-technical potential and the economically feasible. That'll still be our challenge. We're not going to avoid prioritizing. This may involve difficult elections, but I would argue that this year's budget is an expression of a good priority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e365	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e368	The Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party have the following remark in the Budget-inner. S. No 11: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Christian People’s Party and the Centre, indicate that the prices of consumers for medicinal products in Norway are above the European level. The majority consider this to be unfortunate both for Norwegian consumers and for the public that have experienced strong growth in the expenditure of medicinal products in recent years.’ The Committee has been made aware of the fact that, with regard to the purchase price of pharmacies, which is the price of medicinal products calculated by all countries in Europe, it is located in Norway quite precisely in the middle of the level in Europe otherwise. Ergo must be responsible for the high prices of medicinal products in Norway as public charges, i.e. VAT on medicinal products. In a number of countries, pharmaceuticals have a lower VAT rate than we have in Norway – they have differentiated the VAT rate. I would therefore ask the representative Mr Nass to explain what it is that you want to achieve here. Hasn't the representative Næss been informed that the purchase price of pharmacies is in the middle of a European price level and not higher than in other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e380	I am aware of the price level of medicines both in terms of the purchase price for pharmacies and in terms of the selling price, and it is true that, as the representative Nesvik says, in terms of the purchase price for pharmacies, we have received information that places Norway in the middle of a European price level. It is also true, as the representative of Nesvik says, that the relatively high price level of consumers in Norway is also linked to higher VAT rates in Norway than in other countries, where it is also quite widespread and where VAT has been differentiated on different goods. In order to reduce the price level of medicines for consumers – we all agree that this is desirable – action can be taken at different levels. It seems that the representative of Nesvik is particularly concerned with abolishing or reducing the level of VAT, but it is clear that the final price level of medicines here is a result of three things: it is the purchase price of pharmacies, it is the VAT, but it is also the pharmacies’ decision, which the representative of Nesvik for some reason did not mention in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e387	We could say that there has been as well as a revolution in thinking about how we're financing, organizing and governing the health care system in recent years. We have received input-driven funding, health care rights, free hospital choice, we have received user management to a much greater extent than before. And the next step in the revolution's revolution, I would almost say, will be the release of hospitals, which the Minister of Health will soon propose. That's necessary, because we need better hospitals and less political detail management than what we have today. Against this background, it surprises me that the government parties are not in a position to comment in the budget position where the Right and Advance Party actually agree with the Minister of Health when he says in the budget proposal that he will not impose a specific form of association on hospital owners. It is in line with the public body that the Minister of Health himself has set up to advise on this issue. They say, of course, that it is essential for hospital owners to have the democratic right to decide for themselves, and therefore the choice between management company, municipal company, when we have to get it, or share company, should be up to the individual hospital owner. I hope that the government parties did not want to join our association with the Minister of Health, are of a provisional nature, and hope that the representative Are Næss can confirm it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e396	It is possible that it has to do with the starting point, but it seems like Annelise Höegh sees the revolution where I see evolution. But now leave it. There should be no doubt whatsoever that the Christian People's Party is at the position of the Minister of Health and the Government in relation to the forms of hospital affiliation. But when we haven't gone into the comment that Annelise Höegh refers to here, it has to do with the context in which it stands, where there are clear leads in the direction of special forms of connection that the representative Höegh has expressed that she looks positive. The position of my Christian People's Party is that this should be assessed on the basis of the position of the Sørensen Committee, and we await that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e403	In a press release dated December 9, the State Health Authority reported that there were Corridor Asians in hospitals often or regularly at 80 p.m. by the departments. Both in 1998 and 1999 the burden was greatest in the major hospitals. One of the measures described by the Health Inspectorate, which could help to remedy it, was to develop suitable hospital or hospital facilities in the home municipalities, because it was seen that a good part of the phenomenon was due to the fact that many were admitted as an alternative to being treated outside the municipalities, or many could not be printed because the offer was missing in the municipalities. I was very pleased when I heard that Are Næss brought up the joint proposal of the committee, namely the maintenance and maintenance of the hospital facilities in Troms and Finnmark. SV has a proposal that should have identified the same type of models in other parts of the country, looking at measures to strengthen emergency facilities, possibly hospitals, in other municipalities, just to get the relief effect on hospitals. What we see today is that the appropriations need to be increasingly linked to hospitals to compensate for this, as if these problems could be solved in hospitals alone. When Are Næss mentioned this with the hospitals instead, will I ask if he and the Christian People's Party also realize that it could have been useful to look at those types of models, i.e. emergency places at the hospitals or hospitals around other Norwegian municipalities, and that in a socio-economic perspective, there could have been actually a better use of resources in the long term than ever-increasing allocations to hospitals, and especially the larger units such as regional hospitals and the highly specialised hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e414	I think I have even more experience with Corridor Asians than the representative of Ballo, and I share his and the Health Authority's concerns in this area. Clearly, increasing the competence for emergency medicine, and for that matter also for more chronic conditions, in hospitals, could relieve hospitals. It is also clear that it must be an objective to be able to provide treatment at a level appropriate to the situation in question. Hospitals will also benefit from the fact that they are in the patient’s community, not far away, as is often the case at hospital. I have also seen in my own municipality of residence how during the 20 years I have lived there, I have built up the competence to do much more on the local hospital home than you could before, thus averting a lot of hospitalizations. This is the thing that one must take seriously, and that one must continue to work with. It is quite natural that such an investigation takes place in the context of the emergency message that is now coming. With regard to the economic side of this case, this is a responsibility for the municipalities and county councils, as also shown in the remarks in the budget position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e423	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e426	Rarely has a settlement been left by both parties as quickly as the health settlement between the Workers' Party and the government parties, and it is good for the state of health in the kingdom. So, while the budgetary agreement was discussed last year and last year with the satisfaction of the partners in the agreement, the opposite is the case this year. Neither the Labour Party, the Government Parties, nor the Minister for Health seem to be satisfied. I understand. The Labour Party's strategy that they would be behind everything in the budget that they had not changed through the conciliation has already been abandoned, despite what Gunhild Eyes said earlier today. That's the way it goes when you negotiate and make budgetary settlements at such a high level — some might say superficially — that you don't know the health care situation. That is why the Workers' Party's attack on the Minister of Health today is, in fact, also an attack on its own dealers. They turn on a wake, but they mean more, as it's called. Health was obviously not a priority area in the negotiations, and that is not what the Gunhild eye said that the Workers' Party is taking responsibility. No, they're pushing responsibility in front of them – into the next millennium. The dissatisfaction with the government's management of the input-driven financing and the large hospital deficits was known long before the budgetary agreement, at least it was known to everyone other than the Workers' Party. But in any case, there is serious criticism from all teams against the government's management of the input-driven funding of hospitals. It is unacceptable that the scheme has become so complicated and unpredictable, because what the Government gives with one hand, it takes it back with the other. Improvements are immediately followed by restrictions. What was supposed to be improvements is essentially zeroed out. The result may quickly be that the entire effort-driven financing scheme is being discredited. We can't have it that way. So that's why the alarming thing happens, but it's a pleasure that no one anymore defends this equation. On the right, there are many demands for improvements in input finance, but the requirement for differentiated unit prices to meet regional hospitals and the increase in reimbursement to 60 pst., which is to go directly to hospitals, have not yet been given a majority, unfortunately. We cannot accept that there is a fundamental disagreement between the department and the county councils about the consequences of the technical design of the ISF system. For this reason, the entire Committee calls on the Minister of Health to come back quickly to Stortingen with an assessment of the situation. In the right, it is considered that an independent competence environment must be established with medical and hospital management expertise to improve the ISF system. They shall make proposals and opinions on the scheme which are publicly available. The right-hand requirement for the Minister of Health is that he should not wait for the revised national budget until he makes improvements to the scheme. If he waits so long, the patients are the losers, because the hospitals are forced to go to major restrictions on patient treatment. It's very discouraging to live at a time when it's easier to blow up an atom than a prejudice," said Albert Einstein once. But luckily, we've blown a good deal of prejudice in terms of funding, organisation and governance of the health sector in recent years. It didn't happen much in Christie's time, but it's happened the more afterwards, not less than a revolution – more than a development – I'd say it's been in the way of thinking. We've gone from guardian management, top management, to user control, bottom control. We've got patients on the team. We've got competition and the market. Fy-word has become a yes-word. The Right Party and the Advance Party have been the drivers – it has perhaps been the easiest for us, because this idea is more consistent with our values and our values. But we have had good help from patient associations and some professional organisations, who have gone ahead, for they make demands, they have become a sort of counter-expertise to bureaucrats and politicians. This is why it did not go far enough to oppose the right to treatment or the right to health care, as it has become hot. So we've got the major reforms pushed through from the Storting, not as a proposal from changing governments, whether it's input-driven funding, free hospital choice, health care or national cancer plan. We've got the cancer plan, but the new, effective cancer drugs are still too few patients who get. I think that's a shame. The reality today is that we have framework funding for drugs for the most seriously ill. The right will require the Stortinget to be briefed as soon as possible on how the Minister of Health intends to solve this problem. We are standing, as I was also in a line, in front of the question of hospital discharge. Exclusion of hospitals is pressing forward, because hospital owners can no longer operate with detailed management of the individual hospital – we see this as over-measures in the national hospital case, but we also see it in the management of too many hospitals. It'll be an advantage on the day we get freed hospitals. Politicians can then largely go from being largely only budgetary inspectors who require cutting when budgets are not being kept to becoming quality inspectors to check whether budgets are being used to offer quality objectives to patients. The right considers, like the large majority of the Sørensen Committee, that it is right to ‘emphasise the freedom of association of hospital owners as a fundamental democratic and administrative consideration’. In other words, it is up to the hospital owners to choose which form of association the individual hospital should have, whether it be a management company, a municipal company or a limited liability company. The most important thing is not what form is chosen, but that hospitals are more exempted from a daily detailed management from the overall political level, then it is not possible to operate hospitals in a professional way where the patient is put first. I hope and believe that the proposition that the Minister of Health has announced that he will soon submit will join the main points of view of the Sørensen Committee. So some words about the fixed medical system. It's risking, as it looks today, to stumble at first. ‘If the Ministry is to have this scheme in place by the turn of the year 2000/2001, there are some major challenges ahead of them’, said Hans Kristian Bakke, the former director of the Association of General Practising Doctors. I think he's right about that. We lack nearly 600 medical staff, and then it is irresponsible to bet on implementing such a reform from the next turn of the year. That's why Right, among other things. can't agree to do it now. We need to ensure much better medical coverage than we have today before such a major reform can be launched. Then we have the question about RIT 2000, about a new regional and university hospital in Trondheim. My right is to congratulate Mid Norway on getting a new hospital. But it's a big butt. As we see it, the RIT 2000 is in danger of becoming a new scandal project that can put the new Rikshospital completely in the shadow. So you have to build a hospital over 15 years, and we believe today that we know how much it will cost, and we know that the state has to pay the brother. Experience from the experiment on the implementation of the Rikshospital extension should make all warning lights bright and red. In the right, it is proven that there is a lack of public expertise in managing such large-scale construction projects, and that is why we demand that we go to Norwegian or international actors who have succeeded in implementing similar projects. Therefore, project responsibility should not be added to the county. Speaking of the county council: I feel convinced that it is the next bastion that stands for fall, it is fortunately not so far exposed to the reformed health services that we have received in so many other areas. For it is only when the State assumes responsibility for hospital operations, that there can be an end to gambling and disclaimer between administrative levels. In such a model, where the state takes responsibility, it is located where it belongs – in the case of staging and government. Finally, I address the proposals that the Right has with others or alone – in fact, I do not believe that we have any proposals other than our own framework proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e458	Annelise Höegh has taken up the suggestions she herself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e463	I record that the representative Høegh is not satisfied. But I have to remind you once again that the 1999 budget was strongly responsible for this. So the current deficits have their background in this budget. I think that the Right should take this responsibility and go a little quieter in the doors. In the budgetary position, the Government Parties, the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left have made a clear positive statement to an increase in the number of medical students at NTNU and at the University of Tromsø. The need for doctors and other health professionals is very great, as we know, especially in the districts. The so-called salmon effect has been shown to work well in the health sector. This means that when e.g. doctors are trained in Tromsø, most often in the northern part of the country after they have completed education. We therefore believe that it is very important to increase the training of doctors also outside the Central East. Why does the Right not support increased medical training at NTNU and at the University of Tromsø? So the Right Party and the Advance Party say in a comment: ‘These members will underline the importance of introducing incentives at the other faculties to prevent ‘refuge’ of key personnel.’ What is the meaning of this? And what does such incentives really mean?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e478	'Right is not satisfied,' said Bendiks Arnesen. No, that's right, and unfortunately we have no reason to be neither with the current year's budget nor with the next. I have a strong impression that it also applies to all the other parts here in the hall, including the questioner's. We all have a responsibility. We have a greater responsibility for the current year's budget than the Labour Party had, but the Labour Party has a greater responsibility for next year's budget than we have. But unlike the Labour Party, we also promoted our alternative budget for next year. As I have said before, it was perhaps a suggestion of reflection for the Workers' Party, as it now looks. Compared to what the Labour Party has been able to achieve this year, we seem to have achieved a greater improvement in the health budgets over the two years we worked with the Government on the budget. We got a reinforcement of the ISF system from 45 p.m. – or was it 40 pst.– to 50 pst., we were given free hospital choice, and we were strengthened in several other areas. But it's true that we didn't reach as far as we hoped. That is why we also chose to show our alternative budget. Saying that right doesn't take responsibility, that's not right, but it's kind of a way to go before we can say pleasure. I have no problem admitting that. With regard to the increase in the number of medical students, we are very pleased that there is now a majority in favour of reintroducing medical training in SiA. Once it's in port, we'll be very happy to look at the opportunities to increase education elsewhere as well. We haven't said no to that, so this is what we're going to get back to. It's important that you have the education of medical students in many places, not just here in the country, also abroad. I think it's important that we keep places abroad, too, because it gives other experiences and other background material to those who are going to practice in the Norwegian health system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e491	During the budgetary procedure last year, one of the main objectives of the outcome was to reduce interest rates. Few sectors and groups were saved. In a difficult situation, the Right took responsibility. In order to achieve this, we had to work together, among other things. raise the income requirement to 11⁄4 G in order to qualify for sickness benefit. This affected part-time workers and more students. Already during the revised national budget, the Government announced that it would lower the income requirement back to 1⁄2 G. What is the reason why the Right will not follow the Government now? And is Right comfortable with the current income limit? The second thing I want to ask the representative is about regional hospitals. The Christian People's Party wants closeness between owners and users of hospital services. Nor can we see that there will be more money and staff for hospitals if the state is to take over, as Right wants. In a press release by the Røjres Storingsgruppe on 7 December this year, the Røjres leader states that regional hospitals need extensive system reforms as well as increased appropriations. I quote: ‘The day’s system, with shared responsibilities between administrative levels, leads to disclaimer of responsibility and games between administrative levels. It prevents efficient use of resources and makes treatment-intensive patients a throw-off between the counties and the state.’ The press release clearly concludes that the state must take over regional hospitals. What is it that means that the Right believes the State can do this task better than, for example, the Right Town Council in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e509	As far as the income base for entitlement to sickness benefits is concerned, it is right that we supported the Government last year. As far as I remember, there was no mention that the increase was for budgetary reasons; the level had remained silent for very many years, and it was natural to increase it, as one increases most limits when development has otherwise gone a few years without the limits being adjusted. We believe it is right that in this area, which in most others does not leave a system behind without bringing it up to the level that is natural. We do that in all areas, and we're behind it. Now we are not promoting this proposal, as the representative may have noticed, since the framework has become as they are, but it was our idea when we thought it was right to hold on to what we did last year. What's a little surprising is that the government has now found a reason that I don't know it had last year. But they're about it. This is the case with regional hospitals. Yeah, it's sadly so that we haven't come so far that it's become a majority to do not only the regional hospitals, but all hospitals, to a state, a national responsibility. This does not mean that the Right believes that the State should own all hospitals, but it is natural that the State in such a system owns or has the closest responsibility for the regional hospitals as research and education institutions. And we do that because we put more emphasis on health experience than on questions of local democracy. At present, health services are far from being guided more by local policy needs than by purely health considerations. You can actually go back and read in the health note from Werner Christie in his time that it was. That's not how the Right doesn't want it to be. We believe that a national general government, with freed hospitals, will provide a better health policy than today's model.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e516	In Annelise Höegh's main post, the word revolution was mentioned several times. It can be said that in many ways Annelise Höegh has become the voice of the revolution in this room, at least in terms of health revolution. The revolution we're talking about here is, among other things, the input-driven funding and its deployment in hospitals. What you see more and more clearly is that this is one of the most expensive health experiments we have had in the last ten years in Norway, and that costs will only continue to grow. The interesting thing is how both the Right and the Advance Party manage to ride two horses. You're criticizing the health system because you're getting more and more failure, you're not getting away from the health cows, you're seeing that the cost of hospitals is growing one at a time, and you're saying, "Let's get more of the same medicine." In addition, you can take the credit for everything going so much better, as others in the same party must have said before, while the blame for that goes the way it goes is entirely different. As far as the fixed medical system is concerned, I think it is interesting to see, when the municipal health service is down with its broken back, how both the Progress Party and the Right think that it will have to wait until a change has taken place in the municipalities, and until more doctors have been obtained. It's close to asking Annelise Höegh, how are the municipalities supposed to get these doctors? Is it, as it says in American, 'once in a blue moon', that it should be open when you introduce the fixed medical system, or to say it in Norwegian: it happens when it happens? I'll ask Annelise Höegh two questions. What kind of measures does the Right specifically intend to implement to improve recruitment in the municipalities, if the fixed medical system is not to be such an opportunity for better recruitment? And with what kind of instruments is that going to happen? When does it mean that the fixed medical system can be introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e529	To come from a representative of the Socialist Left Party, perhaps the term ‘vote of revolution’ was about signed meaning as a compliment. I don't know if I'm going to feel completely at home, but I would like to stress that representing a conservative party means representing a prejudiceless party. Reforming to preserve is a speck that many people use in time and time. But it's actually a deep truth, and that means you have to have the will to reconsider, to look at old truths without prejudice, and see if the tools you use are appropriate longer. We have come to the conclusion that they are no longer. Old instruments such as framework funding, such as strong policy detail management, such as top-down governance, are no longer appropriate in a world and in a health system that is so dynamic and in such rapid development. We've got informed patients who come on the research front and maybe know more about their condition than many both a general practitioner and a specialist. Then you can't use the old system where someone was king on the hill and decided everywhere. So we've gone in and been willing to admit that many of the old instruments are no longer working. As far as the fixed medical system is concerned, we have a number of proposals to improve it to which the majority of people have not joined. That makes us skeptical in the first place, because we think there's a danger that it'll become a greater right for the municipality to control patients and doctors than getting a flexible and good system where doctors and patients decide more on their own. But we finally supported the introduction of the fixed medical system, with the improvements that were adopted. On the other hand, we find it irresponsible to implement it now, with the great lack of medicine we have, and we support all the proposals that have come up on the table on improvements and incentives to get more doctors to the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e536	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e539	The social and health sector is a major, important and resource-intensive part of public activities and of the State budget. This year's social and health budget, with its two framework areas, amounts to approximately DKK 180 billion, of which about EUR 180 billion is made available. 85 pst. to the fear of the people. The budget for the year 2000 has an increase of approx. $11.5 billion, which corresponds to a growth of about 6.8 pst. in relation to the budget adopted for the current year. In dealing with the Government's proposals, only 24 million will be redispatched. kr, corresponding to a change of less than 0,2 per million of the entire budget area. Health and social policy shall aim at ensuring a humane life regardless of the life phase, the individual's assumptions and conditions of economy and residence. Government parties then also aim to put man in the centre, by basing themselves on the individual's human dignity and care for everyone. User management and participation shall also respect the integrity and autonomy of the individual as required by the proper human being. Account shall also be taken of responsible and good resource management. Within such a framework, the budget is a good tool to move forward on the right path in order to find better solutions to the tasks we have in the social and health fields. However, developments such as changes people's living conditions, and the methods that we can use, for example. with regard to the development of medical and medical solutions, this path will never have been completed, but will address ever-increasing challenges, which will lead to debate on new choices and new objectives. Within the year's budget, the implementation of the action plan for the care of the elderly continues by building 24 400 new places in nursing homes and housing, and by setting up 12 000 new annual nurseries. It is gratifying to note that the first year of the action plan has produced results consistent with the objectives, including: by increasing crews by 3000 new annual works in 1998. After being able to experience so far for 1999, a corresponding number of annual works will also be set up now, so that an already close to half of the target is met in terms of the staff coverage of the plan. A new objective that then needs to be discussed and organised is a necessary manning factor based on what is required to achieve optimal care and well-being. This will be a good opportunity for Stortinget when, at the end of the year, the Government submits its notice on care in 2000. In this Communication, human dignity and care ethic will also be the main theme. An overall committee is pleased that the Government is continuing its efforts under the national geriatrics programme, although this is now formally terminated in 1999. The centre party also sees it as very positive that the department will carry out a professional upgrading of the medical environment in the hospitals. It is also positive that the action plan for health and care professionals is followed up in terms of higher education and higher education. These include: the importance of continuing to pursue decentralised nursing training organised for caregivers and caregivers. Furthermore, it will be important to find more such solutions for the further training of professional personnel, so that qualified and stable labour can also be ensured in the districts and remain there. The lack of medical care is strikingly high in Norway, and the Centre Party both pointed this out and proposed measures to improve the situation during the previous ageing period. The government has followed this up during this period, for example: it is now proposed to re-use the Central Hospital in Akershus for the teaching of medical students. This increase means 30 new medical students at the University of Oslo. It is important that this educational system makes use of existing capacities in the field of scientific and educational personnel in the neighbourhood, so that the establishment of medical training at SiA does not act as a centraliser and thus does not extract competences and resources from existing environments elsewhere in the country. It is also important to note that the training of physicians in our other university hospitals is to be continued and strengthened. The need for several dentists also suggests that this university education is a priority, and that one puts it up for better coverage of the district health services. I would also like to refer to the relatively broad review of dental health in the budgetary position, and I would just like to point out that several of these conditions need to come back to us. The whole research area in Norway needs a promise, which the Government has taken inwards and added up. Medical research is to be a special field of activity, and a joint committee is pleased about it. The training and distribution of doctors should give priority to community health services, cancer and psychiatry. It is therefore important to strengthen these areas also in the field of research and development, and in particular in the fields of general medical education/social medicine and geriatrics. Furthermore, it is important that the area of infection is given a high priority, including: in relation to the development of multi-resistant microbes and major contagion hazards due to increased mobility and increased free trade, which impose much greater requirements for control and management of food commodity measures. – I have to come back with the rest of my post, since I only have five minutes now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e565	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e568	Under the hood. 673 Measures for disabled persons, entry 63 Restricted use of coercion, is the following note to which the lot of the centre belongs: ‘The majority support the Government’s proposal that, from 2000 onwards, an attempt be made to award earmarked grants as a framework grant in 20 municipalities, and that the grant for the limited use of coercion to some people with a mental retardation is one of the grants covered by the pilot scheme.’ My question to the Central Party is: Is the representative insolence comfortable with what is written about the use of coercion in this budget setting? That's the first question. The second is about what has to do with the reference price system. The introduction of the reference price system has resulted in a reduction in public spending for the current year of approx. 110 million. NOK, if I do not remember completely incorrectly. I guess that's what you wanted. Studies have subsequently shown that savings are mainly due to the excess patient share due to the reference price supplement being outside the free card scheme. The number that at least the signatories have been given via the media is that the proportion of patients who have a share of their share of their share is about 65 million. kr of the total savings. My question to the representative of Luttvold is: is it what the government party wanted to be the consequence of the reference price system, that it is the patient who is being hit in the form of increased self-esteem? Because that's the case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e580	First to the last, the reference price system. I am not «comfortable with» – to use the expression in the first question to the questioner – that the savings that the reference price system would entail have largely been due to the fact that users of medicine have been burdened with higher proportions. The government has also said something about this and will come back to us. The reference price system as such, I think, we have to look at quite carefully in relation to the parallel import system and other things, so that one can arrive at what was intended, namely the lower medical price. Now it hasn't been, and there's no special savings. Whoever eats off the load then, we must also have a discussion on. We will have good reason to do so, including: in connection with the Pharmacy Act and the things we're going to discuss about medicine in the future. So to Chapter 6(A) of the Social Services Act, limitation in the use of power and coercion. The trial scheme that 20 municipalities are awarded earmarked grants as a framework grant, at least I feel that is a scheme that you try to understand, among other things. the municipal sector, to see how it works. Among other things, there are also two host municipalities with regard to the PU service. So we'll see how this goes, and whether that's how this is a useful arrangement. At least I'm not comfortable with what the Progress Party does in this area when they subtract 50 million. kr on this item. First, you break out with your arms and say you're very concerned about chapter 6(A), you're worried and you've gone against the Storting, etc. And then you don't agree to grant to counteract just increased use of power and coercion. Instead, try to limit this by using resources – 50 million. Subtract kr. Then I don't understand what you really mean in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e589	After all, we are all familiar with the crushing criticism that the National Audit Office has addressed to the Ministry of Labour and Administration, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and, not least, the State Building on the construction of the new Rikshospital. The clear text states that State Building has not had the necessary competence to carry out the construction project and that none of these departments have followed up the work well enough. A new, large regional hospital, RIT 2000, is now to be built. The right is in doubt about the strategy chosen for the construction. It must be almost impossible to predict what requirements and opportunities it is natural to comply with 15 years in the future in a field where hospital equipment and treatment are developing. The cost estimates must therefore be very uncertain. Given the poor experience of State Building as the builder of the new Rikshospital, the Right is in doubt about the county municipality and a county planning and construction board will be better suited. It is our clear belief that the county should not have the project responsibility. This is just one too big a problem. Does not the representative Joyful see these concerns and that there is now a need for a special competence, national or international, that has experience in such large and complex construction projects? Does the representative of Gløtvold really believe that the South Trondelag County Council has the necessary competence for such an enormous construction project?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e599	It's clear that it can be difficult to see 15 years ahead, and, as I suggested in my post, both medical development and medical-technical development make a lot of change here. Nevertheless, an hourly cycle has been set, which is also hourly based on the possible resource use in the development of the RIT 2000. I also agree that in 15 years you can certainly find things that could have been done differently, when you look at how much after-school time it is now around the theme of the new Rikshospital, and that there were some mistakes made there in framework descriptions and other things, I think we should agree on and large enough to admit, both one and the other. As far as the county council's involvement in the RIT 2000 development is concerned, I think it's right that you also involve local authority here, and I actually thought that the Right was interested in letting the local democracy and the people involved be participants. One should remember that the RIT 2000 is also a central hospital and a local hospital for South Trøndelag and for this region, Tøndelag and Møre and Romsdal. I think competence has to come in. However, it should not be a problem, whoever stands as a builder and responsible, that they relate to their competence – and that it can be both national and international competence, is well possible. I believe that we have expertise here in Norway that can make a significant contribution in many areas of physical development at least, and that it will then be used by the building manager. Otherwise, I think that a good job has been done. The Ministry of Health and the South-Trundelags in between state municipalities to describe a progress here, although I also have many question marks for the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e606	One of the most eye-catching opinions in the budgetary position of the Social Committee can be found on page 43: ‘International studies indicate that Norway is one of the countries where there is least knowledge of biotechnology and the greatest scepticism.’ Of course, the representative of the centre party can breathe out because he is not in this opinion. It comes from the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right, and a passerby, before I ask questions to the Centre Party here, I would like to invite representatives of all the three parties present here in the Chamber to document that claim at any time, when any one of the representatives has the floor. What international studies and quotations are linked to this combination of lack of knowledge and scepticism? Because what's interesting here is that these three parties, compared to [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e616	The President reminds us that Ballo has the floor for a line to "Gløtvold".
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e619	That's what I'm about to do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e624	He should get to it quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e627	The question is now coming. My point here, linked to the joint comment of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the SV, is that we take into consideration this kind of argument and justify the fact that the scepticism of genetic food has substance, it should be taken seriously, and we should also develop legislation in relation to it. I would then like to ask the representative of Luttvold: does the Central Party see what we call a moratorium, or a temporary ban, both on imports of gene food into Norway and on the development of such products in Norway until further research has been carried out and on the possible effects/harmful effects of genetic food?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e632	It was a relatively long introduction to a well-intentioned and short question, but I can only say in the context of that introduction that I am behind the call made by the representative Ballo here to those who have this comment it was referred to, that we had little knowledge and great scepticism when it came to biotechnology. At least I think it's very good that we have a good scepticism in Norway, so the others are going to substantiate this claim of low knowledge. Then for re-food and regulation. The representative, Ballo, is asking if the Central Party can imagine a moratorium in terms of this ratio. I'm not going to say that I want to go for, or not go for, a moratorium today – it's going to be so very absolute. What I have also said at least through the joint comment is that we should use the lead commodity strategy here, be skeptical and get proper investigations done. In terms of genetic engineering and food, I think it's a little dangerous way to go in most contexts. After all, moratorium is a temporary ban, and in practice it is almost in the European Union today. At least I think Norway should follow that line, and then my answer must be a conditional yes – we have temporary ban so far today, and I think we should continue until, among other things, we do. have greater knowledge, not just here in Norway, but in general, of the area re-food.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e639	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e642	The general objective of health policy in Norway has been to ensure that the population, regardless of age, gender and place of residence, has good access to good quality health services. There has been a great deal of confusion about, and that is as far as I have been able to register, no parties saying that they are no longer behind such a goal. The word ‘revolution’ has been mentioned in the past in relation to the development of the health system in Norway and may have a certain concept of content. But it's a silent revolution. It's a silent revolution away from the goal that I was quoting here, and there's a silent revolution where no one would say that's the goal you're behind. But the results make it visible. The results show increasing differences in resource use between different parts of Health-Norway and between different parts of the population in Health-Norway. And there's nothing to suggest that the silent revolution that is about to take place is contributing in any way to anything but strengthening the differences. Yesterday, the Dagsrevyen had a feature that showed that the number of private health insurances is increasing significantly, which is interpreted as a sign of growing scepticism both for the waiting lists for specialist health services and also as an increasing scepticism for the provision of public health services. In this way, it might be said that by the silent revolution, what you're looking for is to undermine confidence in something that would be a common system for the whole population, where you had to distribute the services to the population according to your needs, and create an equivalent offer. This morning, in the News of the Day, it was announced that a number of psychiatric patients cannot be prescribed to the home municipalities because there is a lack of treatment there, and that many who are printed quickly have to be returned because of it. So we hear the Progress Party argue that there are enough resources among people out in the municipalities in terms of psychiatry. We hear arguments from both the Right Party and the Advance Party relating to more resources entering the hospitals. In practice — even though Annelise Höegh is trying to give the impression of something else — there is no willingness to increase efforts in municipalities and to get a distribution of resources out there to take care of the population where they live, in a more appropriate way than today, a silent revolution away from the principle of equivalency, away from an overall offer that will take care of the entire population in an equivalent way, regardless of age, gender and place of residence. Both messages, yesterday on the News of the Day and today on News of the Day, give cause for concern, not because the messages themselves give some answers on how to organise the offers, but because they give signals about a health care system in an imbalance. So the question is: is the objective that the majority of politicians have said should be their common goal, in the process of being abandoned? In NOU 1997:18, Re-priority, it says: ‘It has become increasingly clear that yesterday’s breakthrough in medical-technological development creates today’s and tomorrow’s priority problems. We're doing it better and better, but we're experiencing the situation that's getting worse and worse. All industrialised countries are struggling with how to handle this so-called health gap.’ The total expenditure to which the Social Committee should have been charged next year is NOK 175.8 billion, or a third of the entire state budget. Social security alone amounts to 148 billion kroner of that amount. It may be symptomatic when you look at the Committee's various comments, that a cost item of SEK 63 billion is referred to on 18 lines, namely the retirement age, while in an attempt to get a 1 million grant. kr attached to the Regional Hospital in Tromsø and the dining room, is used five to six times as large, two pages of the original document, but without having the million in place. Then you can ask yourself a question: is 175,000 million. is it enough to develop a real health and social service for the population in this country? In 1960, 3.3 pst went. of total value creation, i.e. gross domestic product, for health care. In 1980 the figure was increased to 6.6 pst. and in 1995 it was further increased to 8 pst. Someone says we're on the right path, but are we on the right path, if the funds are used in a way that makes us get less and less left for them? There are at least things that might indicate that that is the case. In 1997, according to data from SAMDATA Hospital, 5 1⁄4 billion more were spent on the operation of somatic hospitals than in 1990 – just that year. So this isn't the sum of the years that have gone by, but it's just for 1997. The increase in that year's budget, compared to 1990, corresponds to the operation of seven hospitals of the size of the Regional Hospital in Tromsø. Nevertheless, based on the information provided by the regional hospital owners, this resource supply only underlies regional hospitals for the current year of 850 million. kr. How is that possible? How is it possible that the country's increased allocations to the hospital sector from 1990, which corresponds to twice the entire budget of the cultural sector, will not be very close enough? In St.meld. No 24 for 1996-1997, Accessibility and professionalism, it says: ‘The main problem of the specialist healthcare system is this: it is organised in such a way that personnel and equipment are far from fit. It provides patients with a poorer range of services, health professionals with more unhealthy working conditions and authorities with more difficult management tasks than they should and can have.’ This, of course, continues to apply. And that means that the line on which the majority of people have responded, by constantly increasing the input-driven funding, by saying that we should remove the governance tool that the framework provides and spends more and more money without focusing a critical spotlight on how they are used, will only lead to consumption increasing, but the efficiency gain will be lacking. And there's some of the most scary thing here, that you argue along that line with more of that medicine, despite the fact that you can't document any results of it. My irreverent claim will be that the main goal of solving the hospital's problems is to solve them outside the hospitals. It has been shown that despite such a significant resource supply, it is not through hospitals that the health crisis is resolved. Then we have to go back to the municipalities, then we have to go back to the public health service, we have to go back to models related to hospital development, a well-developed home-based care and not least emergency reception in the municipalities, which are represented at the hospitals or emergency beds at the hospitals. But then, the will of a majority here in the Storting must be present to bet on the ground wall of health care instead of constantly building new structures on the roof, and then the ground wall rages more and more together. What is seen from other SAMDATA figures is that from 1990 to 1997, the number of medical doctors in hospitals increased by 1,600 and the number of nurses increased by about 5,000. It's a perfectly obvious context, that when many doctors have left their jobs there and have gone in and worked in hospitals, they get recruitment difficulties in the municipalities related to community health services. The same could, of course, apply to nurses without necessarily having good work in hospitals. There's no reason to say that you have it easy there, that you're privileged to work in hospitals. You see, on the contrary, that there is a crisis there, but you don't get any benefit from the resources that are deployed. It turns out that during the period that has passed, all resources have largely agreed to treat patients who need immediate help or to increase outpatient activity. Almost nothing has agreed to get away from the waiting lists in terms of increased capacity. Then I think it's surprising that a majority argues as if what you're doing is going to solve the problems when you're actually in the process of strengthening them. I have not been involved in the SV's proposal. SV promotes proposals in both areas. But what I can say is that SV is betting on a policy along the lines that I'm sketching here. We need to put the public health service on the agenda again. We have to strengthen it, we have to get a resource use where it has the greatest effect, and then we must not forget that over 90 pst. of what is to be done by treatment and treatment is done in each municipality. It's just 1 pst. of all patients who contact general practice, who are required to seek immediate hospital assistance. That will soon have to be taken into account when it comes to allocating resources to the different parts of the healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e683	When Ballo said that SV is proposing, the president assumes that that means he's taking them up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e686	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e692	The representative of Ballo has then taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e697	There has been talk of revolution here today, but I would say that the health policy that the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo is pursuing in this great age is a bit of a revolution in relation to the Socialist Left Party in the area of health policy for very many years. I would say that you can't solve the health crisis in Norway by building hospitals in all Norwegian municipalities, which Ballo obviously adds. The fact that we have had a strong increase in the number of private health insurance systems only suggests that Norwegian citizens will no longer find themselves in the public health queue, and they will have professionally sound treatment at the right time when the need arises. Here it is the public health service that indirectly provoked the private health insurance scheme. If I had been younger, I would, of course, secure such a system as soon as possible, so that I could receive treatment when it was involved. So to my question to the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo. He complained that the psychiatry in the municipalities did not escape the treatment institutions, and then I asked the representative Ballo: How much has the Socialist Left Party invested in the current budgetary position to improve resource access to the psychiatry in the municipalities? We've added 50 million. kr. What has the Socialist Left Party done in that context?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e704	Concretely strengthening psychiatry, which is one of the areas that SV prioritises in its budget, we have set at 150 million. kr. We proposed 250 million. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. We've been distributing it a little bit different this year, but that's the area we've been focusing on, so that question isn't hard to answer. We've given particular attention to childhood and youth psychiatry. With regard to all of those resources, we have stressed in our remarks that the investment must take place close to where you live, i.e. primarily at your home, but the county councils must naturally have resources at the other levels too, so that you have to have a total strength, as we suggest, of 150 million. kr. I think it's good if the Progress Party has 50 million. kr. It's means, it's also, even though it's very close. With regard to the other questions, I don't believe that any of what I'm saying is evidence of an internal revolution in SV. What may be different is that I am concerned that the money should be used correctly. There should be no revolution for anyone. On the contrary, I think it is quite alarming that so many people are willing to collect and collect funds without seeking results from the use of those funds. But the fact that SV wants to bet in the municipalities, where people live, transfer more funds directly to the municipalities or to the county municipalities, is no sensation. It has always been the policy SV has stood for. It will once again contribute to what Alvheim says he is concerned about, but which is not made visible through the policies of the Progress Party – stronger local hospitals, stronger health services in the municipalities and a better offer to the population. Then Alvheim does not get away with the fact that it is a symptom of illness when many sign private health insurance, because they are insecure about what the public health service will be like in a few years. Alvheim cannot run from the responsibility that over the last few years the Progress Party has been holding hands on the steering wheel and has been given a positive impact on increasing effort-driven funding, on the free choice of hospitals, on the implementation that leads to the policy with which people are now increasingly dissatisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e715	The SV, together with the Right and the Advance Party, promote a proposal in the budget setting that the regulations of the Patient Rights Act be submitted to the Stortinget. At the same time, SV is one of the parties that has mentioned the Government's action plan to prevent unwanted pregnancy and abortion in positive terms in the budgetary position. Does this mean that SV supports the Government's action plan to prevent unwanted pregnancy and abortion, without having been treated in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e720	Here I think there were some quick connections, so I am not sure that I got the comments that were behind this post. In the case of abortion, SV has been referring to the AAN organisation, which has probably had around 11 million. support for the provision of abortion guidance, but also aimed at preventing unwanted pregnancy, that this information should be provided under public law, and therefore we believe that it is important that the funds be put in place instead of going to such organisations. I cannot understand this, because, in the form of a note in the budget position, it is found in the world that SV has a different attitude to that of the Workers' Party, for example. is self-determined abortion law applicable? SV has a very clear point of view here. Regarding the issue of regulations relating to the Patient Rights Act, which I see as a completely different matter, SV did not agree with the Right and Advance Party. We did not go so far as to establish rights to treatment, because we believe that it would be inappropriate resource use if we were to also start guaranteeing a treatment that takes place abroad, for example. But when it comes to going through the regulations to look at the design of the law, look at what kind of rights we're talking about, the reasoning is simply that the patient rights law is so central that it would make sense for the Storting to get presented to it for treatment and get a closer look at it. But that it has any connection with the law of self-determined abortion, I don't understand. I don't understand the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e731	Olav Gunnar Ballo is usually both results-oriented and very ethically conscious. However, in the case of grants for the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion, I think he is becoming more like a dogmatic SV, who will liquidate the grant to AAN, Alternative to abortion in Norway. AAN has been thoroughly evaluated, first by DIAFORSK, and now by the Center for Social Research in Bergen, and I will quote a little from the latter evaluation: ‘Some of the strengths of AAN’s offer is that the organisation has experienced, conscious advisers who have the primary task of helping clients with their problems there and then. These are people who also have plenty of time for the individual client, and they have strategies to help women who have problems choosing whether to complete or interrupt a pregnancy. ... get a lot of experience in consulting, and that they have a continuous discussion of their own practices. These are activities that help employees... have a high level of awareness of their own values and strategies in their work practices. In particular, the employees of AAN demonstrate a reflected relationship to dilemmas that may arise when a worker in a stress field between showing respect for clients and at the same time being of assistance as an adviser.’ The hospital report states: ‘This type of conscious and collective work on attitudes and values related to the work on abortion appears to be absent in Norwegian hospitals.’ SV therefore suggests that the appropriations for AAN be cancelled, but, as Olav Gunnar Ballo himself has also pointed out, the information business in the hospitals is not good enough. Wouldn't what SV wants to do here mean that you closed a good offer without having anything to put in instead?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e746	I have so much experience with the work I had before I got to Stortinget, as a municipal doctor. I don't have a basis for adding a massive broadside and saying that they have had a critical approach, so this is why we have to remove all the funds. We had a discussion in SV about it, and I've seen that both the Workers' Party and SV at last year's budget had a comment that went on: Shouldn't this be in the public domain, shouldn't you have a different approach? Last year, this probably led to both parties proposing a halving of that budget line. Then I took up the combined comment again, and then we had a discussion and said the following: shouldn't you say as a consequence of that kind of reasoning that you're transferring it to public budgets, and that's not where the information is going to happen, at least not through public funds. So we landed on it. I see that the Workers' Party did not, but they had exactly the same kind of reasoning before. We are accused in a way of not being consistent with self-determined abortion, but the inconsistency lies with the Workers' Party, which argues along exactly the same lines, but leaves the budget line in place. - But leave it alone. For us, this is a way to achieve containment in our budgets. We haven't allowed anything more. We stay within the framework, as the others do, and then there are some items that need to be reduced, and this is one. But personally, I want to be careful with conveying criticism from experience, because I actually don't have the basis to do that in terms of AAN. It's just that some budget lines we give priority to – others we give priority to down.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e753	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e756	There are large amounts we have to deal with in the draft budget and the position that exists today, and for someone who is not represented in the committee, there may be reason to express the view that, after all, there is quite a consensus on large parts of the draft budget that are under consideration. I would like, on behalf of the Left, to endorse the position that exists, with the support of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and, in fact, the Left Party, as the vote is based on a budgetary settlement that we are also a party to. With regard to the comments in the committee position, I would essentially like to join the comments that exist and to which the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have agreed. I have noticed that in many ways in the debate there is a dispute about who is responsible for a situation that is described as difficult, and where there are a number of problems. After all, the situation is that most parties have a greater share of responsibility than a smaller part of responsibility for the situation. I would also like to point out that it is important to ensure Community solutions in both the health and social security sectors, and that it is also important to ensure predictability in the organisation, so that there is not too much change without being part of a more planned approach. Budgetary adjustment now shows considerable commitment in the health sector, an area where there are also very major challenges. I would particularly like to highlight, and express my support and pleasure, the follow-up that the budget entails in terms of the plans for psychiatry, for cancer treatment, for equipment and for a commitment to the care of the elderly. These are quite extensive and big bets for which, not least, the government has been successful. And I would like to take the opportunity to highlight, in particular, the focus on psychiatry. I feel, I think, even in this debate today, that after all, you are being briefed on and focused on the problems of somatic health, and I would therefore like to stress that it is important to strengthen the psychiatric sector. The health sector is characterised by large resources being deployed over time. At the same time, it is claimed that as the funds increase, efficiency decreases in many ways. It's also a sector where there's a very big problem with staff shortages. It is therefore important to be oriented towards better efficiency in the sector, and I refer there to the Government’s ‘Simplifying Norway’ approach, which also has as an important aspect to ensure a better health care system by allowing hospital and other health professionals to be more able to do what is their primary task, namely to care for patients. In this context, there is also reason to express joy at the Government’s commitment to ensuring increased recruitment of health professionals. There is no doubt that such health and social services in Norway are organised and, in the view of the Left, as they should be organised, the community economy is very important. I think it is absolutely central to stress that health and social services should be anchored to local communities and, for that matter, to the county municipalities. The involvement that will thus be linked to the health and social services of the inhabitants of the municipalities is an important part of ensuring the emergence of a large public sector in this area. I think in that context it's a point to stress that when the institutions are connected to the municipalities, it's also a strength for the institutions. There are two specific items to which I would like to attach a note. It is a great pleasure from the Left to increase funds for personal assistants. Then I would also like to highlight as particularly gratifying the proposal to look at the roof in terms of interpreting services for the deaf.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e777	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e780	The representative Hove is, as I said, not in the social committee, and I'm going to try not to be too detailed in my question. But I want to raise an important issue that the representative Hove has probably made up an opinion on, and that is that the state budget has raised a saving of 110 million. kr for the reference price system. Studies show that it is primarily those patients who need medicine who have to pay for approx. 65 million. kr of that sum in the form of partials, because the reference price supplement does not come under the free card scheme. The introduction of this system referred to the fact that this was a system that would force the price level down and that the patient would not be harmed. With 65 million. Kr in the increased proportion of patients may well agree with the representative Howe that this system is not working.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e788	I must be allowed to express my gratitude for the introduction that the representative made to his reply. I just got to admit that I think it was detailed enough. As far as the reference price system is concerned, I have understood that the purpose of this is to ensure that the expenditure on the public health budget does not grow unimpeded, to ensure a certain level of control related to the fact that, in cases where there are more reasonable medicines that give an equivalent treatment effect to the other medicines, one must have an incentive to choose the more reasonable medicines. I have to say that this basic idea behind the system I will give my clear connection to. How this works in practice, I have to admit that I have less basis for having a safe view of. But as far as I've understood, it's supposed to evaluate this system, evaluate how this works in practice. And I won't be in favour of any changes in this until an evaluation has found out whether it works and works in a proper way or not.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e797	The representative Hove used a lot of his post to boast and agree that we have a decentralised healthcare system, and that the county councils and municipalities are at all times very busy making health care the best possible in relation to needy and sick people. My question to the representative Hove is then: Is the representative aware that the county councils, which sit together in these days, generally propose and decide to cut the appropriations for the health services and their hospitals? And then at least you're not very concerned with the patients, which these hospitals are supposed to serve.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e804	It is quite right that the Left believes that a local anchor for health and social services is important. And, as I said in my post, it's our clear belief that this ensures better services than what you would have had if this were owned and organized by the state alone. This belongs to the issues for which direct empirical evidence is not easy to provide, at least without doing a type of research that would in that case also be quite demanding. But it is my experience and experience that e.g. The nursing home in a building is also perceived as important for the municipality, for the inhabitants of the building, and is an institution that you have an interest in and are concerned about, and which I would assume has some qualities that you cannot easily measure in dollars and ears. This is part of the effect of ensuring a local anchoring and a local ownership relationship between residents and institutions, and is therefore also beneficial to those in the institution. So to the question of cuts in the budgets. I was asked if I am aware that the county councils today are sitting and adopting a cut. I think maybe I can answer no to the question, and say that I'm not quite aware of it, and I'm not sure if it really is the situation either. What I am aware of, on the other hand, is that the county councils as hospital owners have a big problem in getting the economy to jump. Maybe you shouldn't be surprised, because I think this is an area where we have to recognise that the needs are actually greater than what we have of means to cover them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e816	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e819	One of the most important services of the welfare country is the provision of healthcare to the entire population, irrespective of residence and personal finances. The main feature of a good health service is that it is achievable at the time of reporting needs and that quality is good. In Norway, we have very good health services provided by staff with professional pride and consistently very high professional quality. Although we have some private health services in Norway, the characteristic feature in Norway is a comprehensive public health service. And for most people it's just access to good public health services that provides security and trust. Although we need to focus attention today on the inadequacy, we probably have to remind each other that the Norwegian health service in most areas has been able to withstand comparison with the best in the world. But we now have very good reason to wake up. It is alarming that we now see hospital owners and thus the operators of our hospitals presenting plans with strong cuts in patient treatment, not because the health sector's money goes for other purposes, but because the funds do not extend to the tasks that have been set up to solve in the area of health. It is alarming when child care departments have to be closed down, rehabilitation services are put down, surgical and medical departments are restricted, cancer patients have to wait for treatment beyond the medically sound, etc. It is an alarm signal that needs to be taken seriously when we were presented yesterday through the media with a strong increase in private health insurance in the last year. Although there is no one-tracked, simple explanation, this is a trend that shows that people's trust in our health care is starting to fail, and it's very serious. It is serious for those who feel uncertain about the provision of health where the needs have to be addressed. The fact that people are trying to obtain a private offer in the country or abroad is not wrong in itself, but if we get there to trust that the public health system is failing, then the foundation of the Norwegian healthcare system — the solidarity services that reach everyone in our country. I'm afraid we can now stand at a crossroads. The gap between the resources made available to hospital owners and what they illustrate through their operations that they need to maintain the level of patient treatment seems to be too large. We now have a funding mechanism, effort-driven financing, which is a partnership between the state and the county municipalities. This scheme was to be based on the best in the framework financing, based on economic governance and the payment of the single price system for services provided. Very many people experience that this system is complicated because, through different technical components, it is necessary to provide for a system that provides financial management, rewards efficiency, rewards activity and meets all quality requirements. Although no human being has been given to calculate with absolute accuracy what the crown amount is right in relation to the patient treatment we are committed to, we now see that there is a huge gap between what the hospitals think is going to do and what the department thinks is comprehensive. Neither the hospitals nor the Stortinge can live with such unexplained misunderstanding. The ISF scheme must be based on reciprocity and common understanding between the department, the magnificence and the county council. The size must relate to the estimates and calculations presented by the Government in its budget. The working party has carefully assessed the serious situation and has received the agreement of the Committee, inter alia: the following: 1st@item: inlistbox We are not satisfied in the budgetary documents that reducing both the unit price per person. DRG points and downgrade cost weights provide a proper picture of hospital costs. We therefore demand that the Ministry now carry out an evaluation of the actual cost level of hospital operations and, on this basis, submit to the Stortinget an assessment of the level of the unit price. DRG unit prices are essential for the income side of hospitals. There is no evidence that there is a financial basis for 2 pst. growth, as the ministry assumes.2. The basis for determining the unit price has been so small that it does not provide the Storting with sufficient basis to determine it. It is important that adjustments to this vital part of the financial instrument are based on realism, both in terms of efficiency potential and the cost level of hospitals.3. We believe it is absolutely necessary to assess the basis and procedures for setting the DRG unit price and other factors related to the ISF system. This must be done in close contact between the parties, i.e.: The central and state federations of the municipalities. The situation we now have cannot continue.4. The unforeseeable nature of the funding of patient treatment is a problem in itself and is magnified by the fact that the changes made have not been agreed with the hospital owners, whether in the context of budgetary treatment or, worse still, in the course of the year. This is referred to by the county councils as unacceptable, and this must now be taken seriously. Overall, it is necessary for the Government to assess measures that make State reimbursements for input-driven financing much more predictable for hospital owners. I look forward to getting acquainted with the reports on the evaluation of the ISF scheme, which is announced to be the first. I assume that there may be a need for adjustments, including: in line with what I have mentioned in the four points. It is now absolutely necessary to look at the challenges of regional hospitals. The fact that the regional hospital allowance has not been adjusted for several years seems to have led to major problems both for the operation of hospitals and for the economy of the county councils concerned. In addition to the changes in the systems that we have notified through the committee setting, this definitely sums up a need for larger appropriations for hospitals. The counties are examining their budgets in these days. The size must be crystal clear that, with regard to the assessments of the current economic situation to be made by the Minister of Health, an economic basis must be laid which captures the current cost level of hospital operations and the assumption of 2 pst. increase in patient treatment from 1999 to 2000. The county councils cannot wait very long over Christmas until the hospital operational plans have to be launched. This means that the Minister of Health, as the Stortinget asks, has to get to Stortinget quickly, so that the Stortinget has the new operating base for hospitals for the year 2000. We also have challenges beyond what is more serious about financing operations. Examination of the extent of hospital overburdens by the Health Authority shows relatively serious conditions. Cards can be mentioned: Corridor Asiates occur frequently or regularly at 80 pst. the Corridor Asian Corridor Coverage did not improve in 1999 than it was in 1998; Neither the dignity nor the integrity of patients is safeguarded under such conditions. Treatment quality is also weakened by too many. The working conditions and working environment of the staff are also not going to be good enough under such conditions. We have a good job to do before the job is done, Minister of Health! That's the way it's been in the past. A lot of steps have to be taken before a get in place what is necessary. I am pleased that, in agreement with the government parties, we have strengthened the economy of the training institutions, which, for many institutions, will facilitate the operation somewhat and, at the same time, reverse the trend towards increasing self-esteem for patients. The new contributions from the State will then be NOK 631 per year. 24 hours per day. patients for Group I institutions, and SEK 496 for Group II institutions, an improvement from 1999 by SEK 72 and 57 respectively. It is also gratifying that the new beds at the Glittaklinik can be put into service as soon as they are finished, through an extra 4 million. kr. It would be pointless if these beds could not be exploited, seen in the light of the very long queues of those patients who need lung rehabilitation, and seen in the light of the fact that this is a clinic that has already achieved both national and international reputation. The majority are concerned about the strong expenditure growth in reimbursements to private laboratories and the X-ray institute and ask the Ministry to carry out a critical review of this growth, a growth far beyond that of any other major health-related item.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e879	The Government’s proposals for the State budget for the year 2000 put new and important building blocks in place for better health care. The contingency plan for mental health, the national cancer plan and the plan for equipment investment in hospitals are followed up. These areas are proposed to be reinforced by over DKK 1 billion for next year. I am pleased to note that these action plans have broad support in the Grand Duchy. Patients should be in the center. Important assumptions for this have now been made through the Storting decision earlier this year on four new health laws. The Ministry is well in the process of developing regulations that must be in place before the laws are implemented. In the future, it is now important to focus on key health value and priority issues as well as on organisation. I would like to contribute through before Christmas to promote my own shopping message about the values of the Norwegian healthcare system. This message will also include the follow-up to the Priority Committee and the Life Aid Committee settings. Furthermore, in a short time, I would like to promote an odelstningsproposition as a follow-up to the Sørensen Committee with extended possibilities for hospital release and a clearer distinction between the contractor and the health care provider. The Roadmap for Mental Health is now in its second year, and an increase of more than 400 million will be adopted in 2000. kr. The overall scope of services for people with mental health disorders shows positive developments, both in terms of municipal and county services. In view of the human resources situation, a moderate increase in appropriations has been foreseen in the first years. Appropriations will be increased more strongly over the period of the plan. Food, physical activity and tobacco harm prevention resources in the national cancer plan are proposed to be reinforced by 15 million. kr. The pilot scheme with its own posts in county doctors as drivers in relation to local work in these areas may be extended to cover all counties. Mammography screening will be expanded in 2000 by three new counties, More and Romsdal, Østfold and Oppland. The action plan for health and social workers is being continued. Next year, a total of 402 million is proposed. kr for personnel and competence actions. This is an increase of about 40 million. 1999 kr. The major health and care efforts require substantial increased access to qualified health and social personnel. In addition, the introduction of the fixed medical device will require more general practitioners. In recent years, the capacity for health and social sciences in higher education has increased sharply. For all educational groups as a whole there has been a capacity increase of more than 90 pst. so far in the 1990s. Grants for the recruitment of nurses, doctors and dental practitioners from abroad are stepped up in 2000. The Government aims at the entry into force of the new framework plan for nurse training in the autumn of 2000. Various measures to strengthen the practical part of nursing training, based on the suspension of the Mekki Committee, will improve the ability of nurses to meet the tasks they expect in their working life. It's proposed at $24 million. to incentives for better medical coverage in the districts and tight management of the medical market. Public health, mental health and cancer care will be a priority in the distribution of medical positions. The government's intention with next year's budget proposal is to facilitate the treatment of even more patients in Norwegian hospitals. The initiative in recent years to increase hospital capacity has produced results: Norwegian hospitals treat more patients than ever before, the number of warranty breaches has decreased, and the average waiting time is reduced for patients both with and without a guarantee. On this basis, it is serious when, on the part of the county councils, significant deficits are reported in a number of hospitals. It would threaten the Government’s objective of continuing growth in treatment activity if these hospitals had to reduce their supply to patients on the basis of an economic slowdown to next year. It is therefore important when, in consultation with the Government, the Committee has provided a better basis for next year’s activity through 254 million. extra to the hospital sector in addition to the proposed supplementary appropriations for 1999. It is also important for the stability of hospital funding that the two key earmarked appropriations – the ISF grant and the outpatient grant – now become estimates. This means that it is the activity that governs the level of funding for these schemes, given the legislation at the bottom. Intervention funding has given a good incentive to a high level of activity in hospitals. The activity in the current year has been much higher than that provided by the Government in St.prp. No 1 for the current year. The more conservative growth estimates at the beginning of the year also assumed that the economic structure of the county municipalities as a whole would be demanding in 1999. The economically difficult situation that has now arisen in hospitals must be seen in the light of this. We are facing higher activity than expected, both measured by number of admissions, day-care and outpatient consultations. The majority of the Committee has made critical comments on input-driven funding, both on the system, on the basis of decision-making and on the management of the mechanisms. I take note of these comments, and I will actively follow them up. The ISF is a young but significant reform. It has to be acknowledged that we still have room for clear improvements. I will especially follow up: 1st@item: inlistbox Better decision-making framework in the draft budget, both in terms of content and scope, with regard to ISF.2. In cooperation with the KS, facilitate greater predictability of the financial framework conditions for hospital operations. This will be seen in the context of the development of a new country/municipal sector consultation mechanism.3. A review of the hospital economy in close cooperation with the KS and the hospital owners, including by reference to the 1999 accounts figures. External health economic environments and the departments concerned will be involved in the work. At the same time, we will discuss with KS how one can contribute to greater consistency between the description of budgetary effects and actual relations between the State and local authorities.4. A summary of the experience with the ISF based on the evaluation reports that will now be delivered in due course. This work is already in progress. I will come back to the Stortinget as soon as the advice is available, and in good time before the revised national budget, with an assessment of what is going on to achieve a continued increase in activity in hospitals, as the Government intends for 2000. The question of differentiated unit prices will be considered, in particular in view of the situation of regional hospitals. We will also look at the possibility of a reassessment of the empirical basis for the unit price. In the case of the creep limit, it shall be adjusted in 2000. In the long term, the aim, in my opinion, should be to remove the creep limit completely. A full evaluation of the experience with the ISF will have to have a somewhat longer time perspective, but I am concerned that we can capture the results that are not desirable and propose the necessary adjustments along the way. I share the frustration expressed over the distance between the description of the budget and the effects of the county councils and the state. Although it is not agreed what the local government sector should actually have of resources to do its tasks, it should be able to clarify what a draft budget means. I have already mentioned that with the management of the Municipalities' Central Association. The national economic governance of the local government sector must also be based on the fiscal policy guidelines. The role of the local government sector is to ensure that the activity is adapted to these frameworks. In addition to the planned activity of each county, the State will partially recover through the reimbursement schemes ISF and outpatient grants. However, it is important to note that an increase in activity is not covered by these reimbursements alone. It must also be financed by free revenues, efficiency measures or redispatches. Therefore, the economy of hospitals is so closely linked to the general economic framework conditions for county municipalities. This is based on the division of roles between the State and the county that a majority of the Grand Duchy has assigned to the health sector. My department is following up on the economic situation at the state hospitals. We have data on the activity development of the other hospitals through the ISF scheme, but we do not, of course, have current information on the budget deviations of the individual county hospitals. The consideration of sound fiscal policies suggests that next year too will present challenges for healthcare and county councils. The overall deficit situation notified in 1999 reinforces this. There is also a background for me to carry out a broad review of the issues raised by this budgetary procedure. In addition, the budgetary agreement between the central parties and the Labour Party has resulted in a strengthening of key elements of the Health Budget. I would like to highlight in particular the increase in the regional hospital allowance and the increase in the contribution rate to the training institutions, which can provide institutions with a basis for limiting patients' self-employment. The level of budgetary increase the Committee's proposals for rates of contribution will depend on the development of the activities of the institutions. I will return, if necessary, to the necessary budgetary adjustments in the revised national budget on this point. I agree with the representative of Asmund Kristoffersen that much has been undone. But there's also a lot that's being done, and there's a lot that's going to be done with the budget that the Storting is now putting the last hand.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e941	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e944	Some comments to the articles of the Council of State: There have been some comments from state politicians that the Council of State has said quite clearly that it is the county that is responsible for the hospital economy. I believe that the state council is now much more responsible for the situation, and we are pleased with that from the Labour Party. I noticed that the Council of State said that he took note of the critical comments from the majority and would follow them up. I'm happy about that, too. I would like to stress what I said earlier today, that it is absolutely crucial for us as big business representatives to make decisions about the economy, that we can trust and be 100 pst. Make sure that's what we have to do with the numbers and assessments made by the Government. There would be a strange situation here in Stortinget if we were to present all the proposals for appropriations from different organisations. Then we would very quickly get into a situation where the country's economy would come up in an incredibly bad way. Finally, the council has now announced that he will come back to Stortinget with a statement, as the Stortinget has asked. A couple of parties have said that it must happen during March. I would like to stress that also for the Workers' Party this is urgent, and my question is: When will the Council of State come back to the Stortinget? I will ask the Council of State to speed up the work and get people to work as hard as possible, so that the county councils have something to do with the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e957	It may well have been that some state politicians, to whom the representative Eyegen refers, may have perceived it so that I have placed a little too clearly responsibility with those who are responsible for the proper functioning of the hospitals. It's not always the nuances come out when you debate this in more heated situations. But I have always adhered to the division of responsibilities that is in health policy – between magnification and government, which has overall responsibility for the adequacy of the framework conditions, and the county councils, which – in the case of hospitals – are responsible for operating within the framework conditions such as flooding and government withdrawal. Now we're in a discussion about the 2000 framework conditions – one that we're dealing with now, and which we're going to partly come back to spring. And I'll follow up on that. Thus, Stortinget, the Government and the Minister of Health take part in this responsibility. So to the question of progress: I'm concerned that the analysis that we're going to do, and that the Storting has asked, is going to be sufficiently thorough to give us a foundation to answer the question of what is going to happen to bring about the activity development we want for 2000. I believe that we should see the accounting material for 1999, but I take note that the Stortinget wants the fastest possible feedback and that it will be done in good time before the revised national budget. I'll follow up on that. So I want to come back to Stortinget in good time before the revised national budget, and I want to provide a basis that I think is good enough to be presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e968	I am pleased that the Health Minister from this pulpit said that he will follow up on the problems of the difficult hospital economy, as Stortinget wants. However, I am not so very concerned that this should happen over the head, and that you do not take the necessary time to review this. Hospitals do not present their accounts until the end of January and mid-February. If you want to go through the accounts for 1999, you need time. And for me, and for us, it's enough to get that briefing in good time before the revised national budget. My question to the Minister of Health is on the fixed medical system. According to the Medical Association, there is a shortage per person. the current date 545 general practitioners out in the municipalities. There is little reason to believe that more than 50 to 100 general practitioners can be provided during the year 2000 so that at best 450 doctors will be absent when the scheme is due to be launched on 1 January 2001. In fact, I also believe that the decision on the fixed medical system itself has been a contributing cause for the resignation of general practitioners we have had in recent years since this decision was taken. There are at least a lot of general practitioners who have contacted me in this context. Then my question to the Minister for Health is: Is it appropriate to start this fixed medical system from 1 January 2001 when you are missing up to 450 general practitioners? And what should happen to patients who do not have a regular medical examiner – do they have to pay the whole medical fusion themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e980	The scheme and its framework are now under consideration in Stortinget. The question of the conditions for entry into force in relation to each municipality is addressed in the proposal under consideration by the Stortinget. The government's medical coverage strategy is three-thirds. Firstly, education capacity is increasing. It has increased throughout the 1990s. As a result, this year and until next year, we get the biggest new coals of tour operators into the market that we've ever had in Norway. It is then necessary to ensure that the management of new medical devices is a patent. It hasn't been in the last few years. But the Storting has adopted a new law that allows these new resources to be directed towards the priority areas. We will do that, and the general medical service is among the highest priorities, as I mentioned in my post. Thirdly, we need to strengthen incentives for medical coverage in the districts. We'll do that with a proposal of 24 million. kr on the state budget that Stortinget is currently dealing with. I can mention that one of the incentives that are there is the means of medical cooperation. It's becoming a very successful arrangement. About 90 municipalities are involved in such medical cooperation trials, which reduce the burden on doctors in the districts and thus make medical care in the districts more attractive. We have to work along all of these lines at the same time. I believe that with these measures and the mechanisms contained in the legislative proposal submitted by the Government to the Stortinget, the scheme should be able to be implemented from next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1002	It is serious that there has been evidence of a crisis of confidence between the Council of State and the Stortinget and between the Council of State and the Municipalities in the treatment of input-driven financing and the budgetary situation of hospitals. But I think, like what other replicants have also said, that the Council of State's posts were now an important contribution to the settlement or at least to the dampening of this dawning crisis of confidence. And if the Council of State follows up what he now said, and I have every reason to hope and believe that he will, I think we'll get a long way further. But as far as my party is concerned, we are quite sure that this situation will not be avoided in the future either, as long as there is a split responsibility, a shared responsibility for the situation of hospitals between different levels of administration. Then it will always report situations where you get accusations against each other that you do not follow up what you had actually agreed on. But that's what it is, and so far we have no power to do anything about it. I am pleased that the Minister of Health now expressed a positive opinion on our proposal to assess differentiated unit prices, not least to help the regional hospitals. We have a common interest in improving the ISF system. I think it is important that this group of experts now to be set up can provide professionally justified advice that is publicly available. I would like to ask whether the Minister of Health agrees with that, because this should not be a question of negotiation between the KS, the government and the big business. The establishment of the ISF should be based on professionally justified positions. And if we are to avoid significantly reduced treatment provision in hospitals next year, improvements will have to be made early in the next year. I hope the Health Minister will handle it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1011	I am pleased with the clarifications also expressed by the representative, Høegh, regarding the basis for the future interaction on the development of the hospital economy. It is clearly my intention and that of the department that we should gradually improve the basis of the effort-driven financing system we have, which we believe is a good one, but, as I said, where there is clear room for improvement. One of these contributions will be the establishment of a professionally independent environment outside both the ministry and the county municipalities, but with access both to the ministry and to the county municipalities to make use of it. It is within our draft budget, and we are already preparing for the creation of such a professional environment. I agree that there should be transparency as far as possible about the underlying professional assessments, such as: for the design of the unit price. That's what I want to contribute to. The representative now calls for rapid changes to the ISF system. It is clear that there is a balance between the desire to have predictability and non-change during the year on the one hand and to make sure that necessary improvements are made on the other. We probably still have to weigh that in the time to come. This could be done, for example, by: This is not the case – and I assume that the majority does not think so either – that the ministry, when it detects errors, should not be able to rectify it, so that it pays out funds that are not the basis for payment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1022	The report of SINTEF Unimed, Report 1/98, ‘Samdata hospital’, presents a good deal of data related to the hospital sector and the investment in it. Based on the figures in the report, the total cost of hospitals in 1990 was DKK 16.4 billion. In 1997, it had reached NOK 25 billion. Corrected for the price index, there is an increase of SEK 5.2 billion in 1997 dollars. The report also mentions cost per person. index stays, so as to obtain comparable figures between the different hospitals, and it is found that the costs have been deciduous most in the main hospitals, in the regional hospitals, and generally lowest in the local hospitals. When measuring efficiency gains — index stays per year Games include: used as such – a decrease of 26.4 pst is found in the same period. at the regional hospitals. There is no doubt that there is more treatment than before at larger units, because there is a significant increase in resources both in the form of money and in the form of medical and nursing resources, as mentioned in the case of doctors and 5 000 in the case of nurses. Based on the figures I refer to here, I would like to ask the Council of State: Is it possible that the bet that has been made has been at a level where you have got less for it than if you had had a different distribution profile and perhaps especially bet via the local hospitals and not least the community health service, because – as the report also mentions – part of the treatment that takes place in hospitals does not necessarily have to be done there, but could it be done outside if the offer was present?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1033	I agree with the representative, Mr Ballo, that it is important to look at resource use throughout the treatment chain, as he also points out in his comments in the committee position. But it becomes easy a little theoretical discussion: what would happen if you had done it differently? There has been a clear desire from the government to increase resource use in hospitals. In recent years, activity-based funding has been used to increase resource use in hospitals, and it should not be surprising that this is happening. We have achieved an activity growth that is significant. The activity is bigger than ever, but it also costs money, and that's the situation we're now facing. We see that after the ISF was introduced, it has been added SEK 1.8 billion to the health care and hospitals, and that has been wanted. Having said that, I absolutely believe that we should have the spotlight on how resources are used. Health services have to endure that. It must be tolerated by any public service, not least those who are experiencing significant growth. Through the work of the Steine Committee, we will focus on how we use the different personnel groups. I also think that, among other things, from the SINTEF report for 1998, that there is reason to analyse the use of medical devices on the basis of the simple principle that doctors should be allowed to be doctors as far as possible and that nurses should be allowed to be nurses. If not, we will get cost spirals into this system that are not intended.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1042	I would also like to express my joy at the expected clear signal given by the Minister of Health to follow up on the comments contained in the committee position. I am also very pleased with what the Minister of Health said about the strong management of new medical resources. It has not been good until now. The measures that we now see many county councils planning to adapt their operations to the resources that they expect to have at their disposal are disturbing to me, and I also understand that they are disturbing the Minister of Health. We see proposals for cutting patient treatment and decommissioning of vital wards. This means, as a joint committee says, that the Storting must quickly have the Minister of Health’s reassessment of the situation and proposals to strengthen its operation. I think the Minister of Health expressed himself somewhat unclear about when the Stortinge had to decide on this. I don't think the hospitals and patients can live with such a great uncertainty particularly far into the new year, because I fear that the county councils will have to do unfortunate operating cuts. My question to the Minister of Health will then be: What is the Minister of Health's advice to the county councils about the plans for operating cuts they have, if it is the Minister's wish to wait far beyond the spring party before signals are given as to what a possible level of operation should be?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1053	The signals in the position of the Social Committee and in my speech here today are quite daring to be fairly clear. I said that I would come back to Stortinget with an assessment of what is going on to achieve a continued increase in activity at the hospitals, as the government intends for 2000. It is with reference to our draft state budget for 2000. And this gets the county councils to deal with. I believe, precisely from what the representative Eyeågen has also stressed several times, that the Storting must deal with a submission from the Government, and that this proposal must be based on a proper analysis of developments in 1999 and what is needed in order to meet our objective of continued growth in line with the state budget proposal. And we have to take the time necessary to do that job properly. But it's going to be done, as many people have been involved, as quickly as possible, and I'll come here with a case in good time before the revised national budget. In the meantime, the county councils have to deal with the political signals given by the Storting and given in connection with this budget debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1058	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1061	Unfortunately, as the Progress Party looks at the proposed budget for the health and social sector for 2000, this is not able to solve the many problems facing the health sector today. One of the biggest problems we see in today's health system is actually the constant financial burden that is being shifted on the patient. It may in fact seem that from the Government and the Workers' Party it is a genuine desire that sick people pay their own taxes precisely because they have become ill. An example of this is when the government parties and the Labour Party talk about continuing to work to harmonise the proportions of individual patient groups. Then it's with wonder one sees that this does not mean that someone gets lower excesses, but that instead there are others who get increased. In this case it's that orthopaedic patients now get a discount of 125 kroner per day. the day at the training institutions. This is, of course, something that goes in addition to the increase in self-interest in medicines, as well as the very unfortunate effect that the reference price system has had in terms of the needs of sick people for medicines. The expected savings for the public consist mainly of the individual patient paying a higher proportion of the cash in the form of a reference price supplement that does not fall under the free card. In fact, many patients today can't afford to pick up their medications as a result of excessive proportions. And the reference price system contributes greatly to this. The Party wishes to abolish the reference price system in the interests of the sick people of the country, who have a major need for medicines. The Progress Party is also concerned about the current economic situation of our training institutions and has therefore included an increase of 27 million in its alternative budget. kr. Training institutions did not cover wage and price increases for 1998 and 1999. The Progress Party has also proposed to contribute EUR 6 million in its own budget. SEK to, among others implant treatment, also known as cochlea implantation, for the help of deaf-born children and deaf-bleeds. It is with disappointment that I have to note that this year's budget-mates have not found room for this treatment within their priorities, despite the fact that the entire committee has been made aware that this treatment leads to those who get it being able to get back the amazing joy it is to experience again to hear, or to hear sounds for the first time in their lives. But I just have to say that the majority did not see themselves able to find these few million in a budget of several billion dollars. However, it is gratifying that the Government proposes that mammography screening be extended to three additional counties, so that three new counties benefit from this offer. But I still have to say that I think that now the government should have taken a vow and made sure that all the women of the country at the current age of this screening program had now received this offer. Norway is not worthy of the address of residence to decide whether or not to receive this offer. It is important to give priority to this area within our healthcare system, so that as many women as possible can detect any cancer as early as possible. This could save society from spending, as it is cheaper to treat such cancer at an early stage, but the most important thing is that it can save Norwegian women for a lot of pain and problems later in life. I just have to express joy over the signals that the Health Minister made in his statement that in the case of mammography screening in More and Romesdal, that piece is in place. I think that the women in my home country will appreciate very much and benefit from the years that are coming. The Progress Party has for a number of years and under changing governments noted that there has been no consistent under-regulation of the basic amount of social security payments for each year when compared with developments in the active population. This means that our pensioners have not been allowed to take part in the positive developments that have been experienced by professionals, and this is very unfortunate. After all, it is all our pensioners who have laid the foundation for the welfare society of Norway today. The Progress Party has therefore repeatedly proposed that a change be made to the guidelines for social security provision, so as to delete the words «overall» in terms of income development. This is important, so that our pensioners get the necessary and proper development of the basic amount in relation to the wage development of the economically active. We are also going to discuss later today a matter of the medicine Aricept against Alzheimer's disease. I am not going to spend a long time talking about this matter now, but it is a pleasure that the government has taken the signal that it is important to get this medicine under a certain kind of reimbursement scheme. The party promoting this document No. The 8 proposal, wanted to get Aricept into the normal blue recipe list. This has not yet been done, but it is positive that the Government has made a decision that it is possible to apply for two-thirds of its expenditure on this drug in accordance with Sections 5 to 22 of the Swedish Social Security Act. This case is in St. perp. No 1st@item: Appendix No Four, which we have to deal with. I think a number of older people in this country who suffer from Alzheimer's disease, and their relatives, will appreciate that it is now no longer the economy of the individual who alone should govern whether to benefit from the drug that has been enjoyed. In the end, I have to get into the hospital situation a little, and then I want to use my own team as an example. It has been announced today that there has been a signing campaign in connection with the fact that the county will close due to its economic situation, among other things. the gynecological department of the Central Hospital in More and Romesdal. And I think I could read in one of today's newspapers that the campaign against this cancellation had received 13,000 signatures. At the same time, bed posts are planned at the County Hospital in Molde, and the same procedure is also being carried out against the County Hospital in Kristiansund. Right now there is a debate on this in the district of More and Romesdal. I hope that the closure of these departments will not take place, because it will affect an incredible number of patients. I really hope that the county council in More and Romsdal will take the signal that they want a review of the situation of the county hospitals in order to improve this, but I really hope that this room is also able to take the signals that come from the individual counties on how they feel about the economic situation of hospitals. I just have to say that with regard to the proposal to grant the county health services that we are going to deal with later today in connection with St. prp. No 13, I fear that the amount to be granted is unfortunately not enough.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1084	In 1998, more than 1.4 million people received social support from the population. Social security shall ensure income and compensation for expenditure in different social and life stages, in old age, disability, sickness, birth, unemployment and the loss of dependants, and shall contribute to the assistance of self-help. Thus, people's fear is a fine-husked network to ensure the necessary economic and social basic security for all Norwegian citizens, literally from birth to grave, a safety net that is part of a solidarity society. Thus, since its inception in 1967, public health has been an important instrument for building the welfare community. The fact that people have prided themselves on popularism has led to a general uprising about it and a general willingness to contribute to the financing of its expenditure. For the Workers' Party, it is important to maintain the legitimacy of popular security, because a Community solidarity solution is a prerequisite for providing the weakest in society with satisfactory benefits and services. If the general opening up of the scheme goes away, it will be left to speak the case of the weakest. Some of the discussion about the situation of minimum pensioners and supplementary pensioners is just about this. Therefore, it is so important that the pension scheme of the people’s pension scheme also provides supplementary pensioners — i.e. most pensioners — a fair development, so that they too can meet their expectations of an income development in line with employees. It's only through a robust pension system for most people, i.e. for those who have earned pension rights through their employment, that one can also ensure a sound minimum pension. With a flat pension scheme involving only a minimum pension scheme, the pension scheme could easily lose its strong speakers, including: represented by the large employee organisations. I know there's been different political views on these very sides of our pension system. I therefore believe that it is both reassuring and joyous when an overall committee points to the need to ensure a basic economic security for all, while at the same time ensuring, through the supplementary pension, the ability of workers to maintain a standard of living. The Committee stresses the importance of ensuring that both of these objectives will continue to be achieved in the future through popular concern, as the Committee sees this as a precondition for people's upswing and confidence in it. So a group committee says something I feel like a new political recognition, at least from some political parties: ‘The Committee will therefore warn against measures that reduce the value of supplementary pensions generated by professional activity and that involve a development towards a flat-rate pension scheme.’ Thus, an overall committee warns against a flat pension scheme and it is joyous and reassuring in relation to the further development of pensions. It is precisely the recognition that the supplementary pension has had a weaker trend than the wages of employees and far weaker than the minimum pensions, which has led the Social Committee to ask the Government in two stages to draw up legislation to ensure that, through the evolution of basic amounts, supplementary pensions develop in line with wage developments. The majority of the Committee believes that, with the leadership and the framework for the negotiations on the basic amount, it should ensure that pensioners receive income in line with other employees. The entire Committee emphasises that both historical wage developments — often referred to as lags — and expected wage developments should be taken into account when determining the basic amount after discussions with the organisations. The majority of the Committee also makes reference to the oral presentation by the Pensioners’ Association in the Committee, which stressed that the guidelines for the basic regulation would lead to the first clarification of the historical development of salaries last year before the discussions on the basic amount began. As we understand it, this involves making both the back-up calculations and the calculations of expected wage developments visible. I would like the Council of State to confirm such an understanding. It is important that a person maintains the legitimacy of the people's rights and welfare systems attached to it. And it's our responsibility as politicians that through our decisions and arrangements, we are credible in following up and standing by previous decisions. The changes in the income limit of the sick pay scheme, where several thousand low-paid people lost substantial welfare rights, were an estimate of such credibility, in particular the credibility of the Centre Party, which through the election campaign and the Waxenå Declaration had promised to stop all attacks on the sick pay scheme. The working party is therefore pleased that one is now right in this case and reintroduces the old income limit of 0,5 G. Since the government parties have taken a different view of the sickness pay scheme, among others: the view of day-to-day workers and the level of sick pay, it is gratifying that the Government of the Proposition will not impose any more financial responsibility on the individual subject, as this would be primarily likely to affect low-paid workers and those with a taxing profession. The Labour Party is very pleased that these views are expressed by the Government. These are the views that the Workers' Party has always highlighted. However, there are new political tones, at least from the Christian People's Party and the Left, which have previously had different views on the health pay system, and we should have had a confirmation that these are also views that one will stand by in the future. However, the credibility of the government vis-à-vis large groups of employees is tested seriously through its proposed attack on the contractual pension system. A contractual pension is a negotiated agreement based on tripartite cooperation: employers, employees and the country. In fact, the Progress Party and the Right have gone against the State grant to the scheme. But a majority of the Biggest has just joined the scheme. They have opted for the scheme as part of the solidarity option and thus as part of the moderate wage settlements. The solidarity option has been crucial to the economic and social development we have had in Norway, which has led us through the economic fluctuations in a different way from other European countries. If we are to be able to work together on wage settlements in the future, we also need to act as credible partners. The Labour Party will therefore warn against attacks on negotiated arrangements. The working party, together with the trade union movement, will protect the contractual pension as part of an overall pension scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1113	One of the most important public tasks is to ensure the safety of disease treatment for the whole population, and the necessary safety and security in old age. People should feel confident that health, care and care services are of high quality, that they are available and that they are provided when needed. It does not have to mean that the public must operate on its own. There must also be room for private operators to compete to expand and operate both nursing homes and nursing homes on behalf of the public. The most important thing is not who owns and operates, but that the public pays, and that the offer is of high quality. It could provide better health and care services and better use of economic and human resources. Any savings may be allocated to even more and better services. For a long time, we have seen examples of today's organisation of health services not working well enough. In the case of shared responsibilities between different levels of government, it is open to play and discharge, as we have seen in the last few weeks in terms of hospital budget deficits. The Minister of Health was responsible for the counties, and KS was responsible for the Minister of Health. This illustrates several public investigations and the Right has repeatedly pointed out, year after year, as one of the main health problems. Shared responsibilities between the administrative levels lead to disclaimer and games between the State and the municipality. It weakens patients' rights. The responsibility must, as the representative Höegh pointed out, be placed where it belongs — at the Government and the Stortinget. The patients will be served by the state taking responsibility for the hospitals. This state responsibility must be combined with local freedom through freed hospitals. Intervention-driven funding and free hospital choice have given hospitals major challenges and opportunities. But they must have greater freedom to operate without unnecessary political override. But this doesn't solve all the problems. There is also a responsibility for the managers of hospitals to address the obvious management and organisational problems within hospitals. It will impose high standards on the ability of health professionals and, in particular, the willingness to meet the challenges they face. These are the challenges the obligations to take into account patients. Serious quality deficiencies have also been identified in parts of the care service. A report from the State Health Authority showed that 90 p.m. care of the elderly is operated without systematic control of the services. It is simply unworthy and, of course, totally unacceptable. An important contribution to improving the quality of care for the elderly is to separate the order and producer roles. This will make it easier to impose requirements on services. Competitive outsourcing of care services improves the use of municipal financial resources and human resources and improves the quality of services for users. Under competitive conditions, municipalities are more concerned with documenting the quality of services, both within their own municipalities and in private-run institutions. We also look forward to the fact that several parties – including parts of the Workers' Party – see that competitive outsourcing is not a matter of ideological choice but of practical policy. It's an important tool, not a goal. The goal is better and more care services. Many municipalities choose to build nursing homes instead of nursing homes because the operation falls cheaper for the municipality. In order to ensure that offers are expanded with the care and care of lucky days, the Right believes that municipalities need to receive a higher start-up grant for nursing homes with associated staff, in line with the health care home. This will also allow nursing homes to offer a range of good-bye care and care. At the same time, the start-up grant can be maintained for nursing homes served by home care and home care. Such a scheme is of the opinion that the Right will provide greater flexibility for municipalities and better provision for users. It is therefore incomprehensible that neither the Workers’ Party nor the Government’s parties will even support an assessment of this proposal. So to the National Hospital, it's almost so I don't know where to start. There is soon no thing that surprises me any longer in this matter. I'm sitting with a troubling feeling that the only thing we can do here at Stortinget now is to print more and more checks. It has now emerged from a report – mentioned in the evening post today – that there may be another delay in the move of the Rikshospitale – to after the summer holiday next year. This means, in plain text, that this assembly must once again have its checkbook — how much, no one has an overview of it. Nor does it benefit to ask the Minister for Health if he has any overview. But consideration of the facts is in place, and it is expected! We are all familiar with the crushing criticism that the National Audit Office has addressed to the Ministry of Labour and Administration, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and State Building. It is said as clearly as possible that State Building has not had sufficient competence to carry out the construction project and that neither the Ministry of Labour nor the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has followed up the work well enough. The costs of construction have almost tripled compared to the starting point in 1988. But the bulk of the population must also take part in the responsibility. In 1988 and 1992, the right pointed out that the majority here at Stortinget should not reduce either the area or the number of bed places, because the need was actually greater. As a result, the project has undergone several costly changes in its course. But when that is said, there is reason to ask questions about how the departments concerned, and not least state buildings, have managed this process. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee now has the matter under consideration, and the Right will take the final position on the report. But what is quite clear is that another postponement is very serious for patients – if this results in correctness. A look-up in the Evening Post today shows that the situation in the Rikshospitalet is already precarious. There is a crisis for very ill newborns, and pregnant women with complications must be sent to, among others. Sweden. Sectional Conference Per Børdahl at the Rikshospitalet today states to the Evening Post that the situation is very serious and that children's lives are in danger. There may be a disaster, says superior Børdahl. In the context of the new Rikshospitalet, there have already been fewer sites for treatment. I soon don't have words, but I hope the Minister of Health has, and that he can now explain what he intends to do to end this serious and unworthy situation in the Rikshospitale, before a disaster happens. I have a few seconds left, so finally a little pre-Christmas joy: I am pleased that there is now finally a majority in favour of increased investment in the training institutions, and that there is support for the Right's proposal to increase the appropriations by 20 million. kr. I'm also glad that there's a broad majority in favour of increasing the grant to the Glitttrlinik by 4 million. kr to ensure the operation of new treatment sites. It will provide a much better offer to this group of patients. And finally, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the medical training at the Central Hospital in Akershus will now be restored. It could improve the toy coverage, not only here in the eastern part of the country, but also throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1148	For the Workers' Party, it is an important objective to ensure that all citizens have a good and equivalent provision of treatment and care services, regardless of age, residence, income and social background. The Labour Party believes that the objectives of efficiency and equivalence can best be achieved through a strong public health system, and we will underline the objective of fair distribution of the benefits and cohesion of living conditions. This has also been the objective of the current budgetary position. I believe that the budget has thus gained a better profile since the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party became a reality. The situation and economy of hospitals have been central to the budgeting of the year. Hospital owners and hospital management representatives have informed of a very difficult situation and a large deficit. So this is not just a case-by-case situation, but a fairly similar situation across the country. This tells us that something must be wrong with the way the hospitals get their settlement. It is obvious that we cannot have such a situation in the future and that a review of the economic situation of hospitals must be carried out quickly. This review must form the basis for the Enlargement’s assessment of the need for regulatory change and necessary appropriations. Hospital owners and hospital managers have described a dramatic situation in our hospitals — yes, so dramatic that some key hospital members have actually threatened to withdraw from their duties. I do not think this is a deliberate strategy and empty threats in a budgetary period. I think this is an expression of a situation in our hospitals that doesn't serve anyone, and that can't go on. I will not in any way accuse the hospital representatives of overdramatizing the situation in a tactical budgetary game, but I would rather take it as an expression of the seriousness of the situation. Hospitals are too many districts of greatest importance in order to provide the necessary emergency response. In particular, this is important in those parts of the country where there are large distances between hospitals and where weather conditions sometimes make it impossible to transport patients long distances by car, and when flights cannot go. Nord-Troms and Finnmark have several such hospitals, which are absolutely necessary to maintain a satisfactory preparedness. These hospitals also offer a good offer to patients who have completed hospital treatment, but are not healthy enough to go home. In such cases, hospitals may relieve hospitals in a good and reasonable manner. Hospitals are not a statutory task for county councils, and in a depressed economic situation it may be difficult to maintain the offer. An overall committee considers that an overview of existing hospital facilities providing emergency care needs to be drawn up and further believes that a financing system should be established to ensure the operation of these hospitals. The government must therefore, in cooperation with the county councils, find arrangements to ensure the operation of hospitals and, in my view, also provide State financial assistance if necessary. In my opinion, it would also be natural for this to be seen in the context of the review to be carried out with regard to the economy of hospitals. The future status of hospitals must be clarified at the latest in the context of the emergency message coming to spring. Training institutions provide a very important rehabilitation service in our country, helping many to improve their daily lives. It is important both to improve the quality of life, to increase the self-heldness and, in many cases, to re-establish an active life for people with health problems. Training institutions have demonstrated that their financial base is now very difficult and that more people now have to reduce manning and other costs. It goes without saying that such cuts in operation can go beyond quality. In addition, increased payment by users will lead to the exclusion of many with a high need for rehabilitation from the offer for private economic reasons. This will further reduce institutions' coatings and further weaken revenue. I am pleased that the Workers' Party was able to make a positive contribution to increasing the appropriations for the training institutions by 20 million. kr – no one can dispute that. This will significantly improve the situation for institutions and therefore also for users. But that's not enough in the longer term. In this connection I refer to the treatment of St.meld. No 21 for 1998-99 on rehabilitation, where the Stortinget asked the Government to submit proposals for a financing mechanism to ensure the future operation and quality of training institutions. Such a review is absolutely necessary to ensure the future of training institutions and to ensure that users are confident that they can maintain this important offer. I assume that a new financial instrument can soon be put in place, and that in this way a better predictability can be created for both users and training institutions. The Labour Party is also pleased that there was a majority in favour of increasing the allocation of 4 million to Glittrlinik. kr. This clinic is now undergoing a major expansion approved by the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, which will give the clinic more beds and room for more specialists. Glithrlinics have a very high level of competence in lung habilitation, and there is a very high need for such treatment and rehabilitation. It is very important that the clinic is able to make full use of its capacity when it is completed until the autumn. I hope that with this $4 million allocation. kr will be possible to fully operate. I would also like to say on this occasion something about prostheses and about the need for an immediate improvement in the situation of those who have the greatest need for goods and services covered by prostheses. Self-esteem is felt by many as a very unfair tax on disease — a tax that works so that the more needy the person is, the more he has to pay. I have no ambition to remove everything of self-payment, but it should not be that those with the smallest income and the worst sickness and disability pay the most to the community. Therefore, we need to have a new self-payment system that takes account of all the costs associated with a need for assistance as soon as possible. Today's self-employment only takes into account a small proportion of the actual expenditure incurred by a person with a high need for assistance. I've talked to people who have a lot of expenses to help out at home, to snowmoking, transportation, rehabilitation, medicine, etc., who are not covered by the self-payment ceiling that we have today. New rules must be based on the availability of such services to all, irrespective of income, residence and category of disease or disability. The majority has addressed this issue for the most part, and the government is now working on a proposal. I hope that this will now be available within the time frame outlined in the budget paper, so that the Stortinget can be presented with a proposal for a self-payment rule that works more fairly than today's system. Let me finally fix something from my line earlier today. I am pleased to have been made aware of the fact that an overall committee is going in to increase medical training at NTNU and the University of Tromsø. But I think in that context it's strange that the Right Party and the Advance Party next time are outside a clear proposal on this in the position of the Church, Education and Research Committee on dimensioning higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1190	The government’s draft government budget for 2000 provides a better distribution with a social profile also in the tax regime. In the area of the social committee, there are extra opportunities. follow-up of the action plan for the elderly, drug users and key actions in the Equalisation Communication. The rights of the people are also strengthened. It is with pleasure that I see that the committee setting sees broad support for priorities in all these important policy areas. The reporting from municipalities on action plan for older people shows one main result: we are on track when it comes to buildings and staffing. In the spring, I would like to send you a message that includes: shall sum up the experience with the action plan after two years. The action plan for the care of the elderly and other major initiatives in this field provide the external framework for the provision of good services. In the Annual Report on Care 2000, we will focus on the content of services, on value issues, attitudes and measures to improve quality. The design of service provision for age, drug addicts and others with specific needs will be discussed. The analysis in the Equalisation Communication shows that income differences in Norway are increasing between 1986 and 1997. The notification also demonstrates that some groups of the population with weak economies also have poor living conditions in other areas. These findings contrast with the Government's objectives in the distribution policy. We want the Norwegian welfare society to provide security for everyone and a fairer distribution of income and living conditions. We will meet the developments with targeted measures for the weakest in society and through redistribution through the tax system. In the 2000 budget, 60 million were proposed. D to payroll allowances, municipal responsibility for work for social clients and better budgeting for disadvantaged people. The anti-dithering messages constitute an action plan against poverty and marginalisation. I look forward to the further follow-up after Storting's message management. There will be actions for better services, a softer workline and a more finmasked social security network. In the disability action plan, there are 161 measures in progress or in the process of being implemented. Let me mention, in particular, the Ministry of the Environment's commitment to planning an available Norway, and the Ministry of Labour and Administration's commitment to finding work for unemployed people who want to use their skills for the benefit of society and themselves. In my own area, it is important that the group of people with disabilities who receive far less practical support and care services than they clearly need is involved in the development of services by municipalities. And we have to make sure that those who have a pension as the most important source of income – many have it this way throughout their adult life – get their fair share of wealth development. The government has reduced a selection of its own to look at the accessibility features of the disabled in a larger context. The proposal for the legalisation of a user-controlled personal assistant, which one should treat later today, is also an important step. In recent years, the increase in the use of legal and illicit drugs has posed new challenges for drug policy. We are now going through the organisation of prevention work to develop strategies that can be effective for young people and adults today. Particular attention needs to be paid to strengthening multidisciplinary cooperation and increasing local efforts. In the 2000 budget, the government proposes to strengthen measures for drug users by 33 million. kr in relation to 1999. The funds shall be used for the continuation and strengthening of post-crisis measures, health care for the most vulnerable addicts and medically assisted rehabilitation. I have noticed that the Committee has given an in-depth assessment of the proposed change in the guidelines for the regulation of the basic amount of population protection. It is important both for pension income trends and for the long-term development of pension schemes themselves. All parties, like the Government, are concerned with appreciating pensions and pension increases in relation to general wage developments, and are concerned with both expected developments in the regulatory year and actual developments in the previous year. This is at the heart of both the Government's proposal and the Committee's comments, as I understand it. That's good. At the same time, no one will have such strong bonds as to suggest an automatic indexing. One will still have annual discussions, suggestions and decisions, and I think that is wise. I am pleased that a group committee joins the direction lines as suggested by the Government, and assume that they clearly define how the statement is to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1227	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1230	The drug issue is a major challenge for all of us. Unfortunately, the volume is increasing. Governments have shown increased commitment to helping abusers with measures aimed at making the drug user drug-free, but also with the provision of methadone-assisted treatment. Unfortunately, we have an excessive waiting list for methadone-assisted treatment, between 300 and 350 waiting at MARIO in Oslo. I have also recorded that it takes time to establish treatment services where buprenorphine is used. What measures will the State Council take to ensure that the methadone queue in Oslo is phased out as quickly as possible? For a while back, we had a partly strong debate about brewing sticks during the ice hockey World Cup in Norway, about Warsteiner advertising. Many people watch the Eurosport channel every day, where it is advertised for the Finnish vodka, Finlandia, and whiskey from Scotland. Last night we saw World Cup slalom from Madonna di Campiglio, where it was advertising for Carlsberg brewery. What action has the Council of State taken in order to improve Norway’s position, i.e. not bridal harassment at sporting events? There is little help in our goal, if it is not realistic to refuse such advertising in the case of transfers across Norwegian channels, and when we get around hundreds of thousands of homes, we can get advertising for both breweries and brandy products.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1237	Let me first say that I am happy for the broad commitment that is in the Storting, for increased efforts in the drugs field, for increased efforts when it comes to different treatments. I have seen down a working group that has gone through three important parts of this field: for the first, the relationship between needs and supply, for the second, the quality of supply that exists, and for the third, the organisation and funding. I clearly see this as an important contribution – which I will follow up on Stortinget – in relation to methadone-assisted rehabilitation and the combination that must be there. What is the key, and the main cause, for one to move on and get even more into methadone-assisted rehabilitation and buprenorphine, is that each municipality follows up with an action plan around the individual drug user, a plan that includes e.g. housing, work, education, social networking. This is for some people today a brake pad. So to question number. 2, which applies to incubators. My starting point is that it is important what legislation each country has. We have restrictive legislation in Norway as the starting point for cooperation, both at Nordic and European level.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1248	The Council of State said in its speech that it was a unanimous committee that joined the proposal for guidelines from the Government on social security. That's not right. The Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party went against the guidelines, just so it's clear. I'll deal with the reasons for that, but first I'll quote a little bit from what the committee has said. The Committee states that: ‘The Committee points to the fact that the basic amount of the public interest has been subjugated over several years. This implies that several supplementary pensioners have had an income development below the income development of employees. The Committee would point out that such developments are not in line with the intentions expressed by the Stortinget with regard to the development of pensions.» Nevertheless, the Government presents a proposal for guidelines and re-uses the following wording: ‘The objective of regulation shall be to provide pensioners with a retirement pension with income development in line with developments in working life.’;» You're once again using the expression "about" here, and I have the impression that that's what has repeatedly been used in this room as an argument or an excuse for deliberately over a period of time to underregulate the basic amount of popular security. My question to the Council of State will then be as follows: Is this what is also the basis of this time, that is to say, that you use the expression ‘all around’ to have this little loophole that allows you to once again underregulate the basic amount and refer to the guidelines?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1265	It is the government's goal to take care of the trust that is today in popular security, and to secure the basic security that has been the foundation of the present, and to take care of the standard security that lies here for employees to have a pension that corresponds to income. Let it be clear. So to the committee's management of the guidelines and the government's proposal there. I'm assuming there's a whole committee that doesn't want indexing. This means that there is a joint committee that will have annual discussions, proposals and decisions here in the Storting on the basis of it. I mean it's wise, as I said in my post. There is no room to follow up the sub-regulation mentioned in the message, which has passed over several years, but there is a room for assessment and discussion, which is a continuation of the practice we have had over several years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1272	There is a broad consensus here in the United Kingdom that it is important that the action plan for the care of the elderly be followed up in the year 2000. The government assumes that the activity requirements related to the care service grant will remain constant next year and that the activity growth will trigger the grant. Today, a start-up grant of NOK 175 000 is granted for nursing homes and NOK 375000 for nursing homes. Many municipalities choose to build nursing homes instead of nursing homes, because the operation falls cheaper for the municipality. In order to ensure that offers are expanded with the care and care of the lucky day, the Right believes that municipalities need to receive a higher start-up grant for nursing homes, with associated staff on the same lines as nursing homes. In this way, nursing homes can also offer a range of services and care. At the same time, the start-up grant of NOK 175 000 can be maintained for nursing homes that are operated only by home care and home care providers. Such a system would provide greater flexibility for municipalities and a better offer for users, because you get a greater continuity. For example, you don't have to do this. moving from nursing home to nursing home. The working party and the government parties opposed to supporting an assessment of this issue within the Committee. But I could imagine hearing the views of the Council of State, whether she sees this as a contribution to increasing the supply of good luck and care in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1283	It was a commitment to the inter-political agreement we had in 1997, which gave the action plan for the care of the elderly, that the places that were built up and the supply that was expanded should include the elderly, those who needed the most care and care. The size also assumed that one after two years would lead to a review of how the agreed arrangements worked and what they had contributed to. I mean, as the representative Sonja Sjøli, there's a need to go through this more closely. There is a need to look at the investment that is currently being given to hospitals and nursing homes, and there is also a need to look at how care services work. I am now preparing a big message that will be submitted in the spring of 2000, where I will go further into this. Let me also mention that an important piece there must be the future role of hospitals. Should a reindeer cultivate even more short-term rest periods and the medical supply of hospitals? Do you want to bet on local variations, such as today – that’s probably a good reason, all the time you’ve opened up for so many local variations – or should you institutionalise older care even more? As I said, I will come back to this, and I also think it is natural to see more closely about the Right and the Progress Party's proposals in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1292	In various articles, there has been an increase in the excess and the consequences. It was a topic for the Social Committee last year, and it's a topic this year. I think it is good that both the Advance Party and the Workers' Party are clear on this. However, there is little help when there is a consequence of increased self-esteem, regardless of the partner. My question to the Minister of Social Affairs relates to increased self-esteem in the face of the social message, the treatment of it, and what the Government has as a cost-effective objective: to do something about the differences in society and try to balance them. The fact that you should get a message of difference has been SV's heart child for many years, so we are happy about it. But I want to ask the Minister of Social Affairs: does the Minister of Social Affairs see that the development that has now taken place, with an ever-increasing increase in ownership – by 30 pst. increase over the last three years — also contributing to the development of differences, because for some people it is simply too expensive to use some health services? Does the Minister for Social Affairs also see the need for measures to ensure that the next year's budget does not include further increases in the proportion of health care costs?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1302	I look forward to the processing of the Equalization message in Stortinget, not least in the light of the budgetary agreement between the Centre and the Labour Party, and also the signal given from the other batch including SV. The dissatisfaction message shows that there are groups in this country who are lagging behind, and it documents in its analyses that disability is one of these groups. It is also natural for me to see the characteristics and availability of income in the context – it also does for the Government. It's also because we have taken the initiative to review the properties as they are today, to get a roof 1 and a roof 2, and thus get to a protection system for the disabled and the chroniclers. I share the opinion of the representative, Ballo, that this is urgent. I see that we are going to have the opportunity to put something in place for the 2001 budget, but I expect that this is an understanding that I am not in any way improving the budget so far in time. But what's the main point, is just on the one hand to have assets for the very majority of us who can pay into the community, and thus participate in providing health services longer, but on the other hand to screen the major consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1311	The Government has expressed a desire to amend the AFP scheme, a contractual pension. The AFP scheme is a result of tripartite cooperation over several tariff settlements and has contributed to moderate wage settlement at a time when this was particularly important. Many of those on this scheme would undoubtedly be non-pensioners if they had not received the AFP. These are people on the floor who do not have other favourable pension schemes, as opposed to other groups who have much better plans and lower retirement ages. The AFP pensioners are the weary, the ones who have been working from very young age. The AFP is not the problem in working life, but it is also the setting up of measures to get long-term sick people back into work. Does not the Council of State see the unreasonableness of attacking the AFP system, which is an agreed arrangement for the workers?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1318	The government wants to keep a good AFP scheme. What we are asking questions about is, is it true that today we have contractual arrangements that actually encourage employees to retire instead of using their skills and experience in a working life where there is a shortage of labour? We have discussed some aspects of this in the national budget; in fact, these are also aspects on which the Jagland government itself has partly pointed out should be considered more closely. That's why they put down a pre-pension selection, which came with its setting. The sides we've been thinking should be considered closer, for the first part of the pension and the pro rata curtailment provided for at the time of the agreement, there's a question of crediting pension credits in the public sector when a well-known person has retired from the pension, there's a curtailment of the grant pension in connection with the AFP, and there's tax arrangements that can actually help people assess their own economic situation and choose to retire from working life. It is the government's open and sincere belief that there should be arrangements here to ensure that people can withdraw from an active life of dignity. But at the same time, there's a reason for a closer discussion of whether one of these overstimulates people to stop early.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1327	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1330	Too many Norwegian men and women smoke. The size of the store is paying more and more money to the State Tobacco Injury Board, without giving the desired effect. The 2000 budget proposed an increase of 7 million. kr. The money shall be used to strengthen local involvement in tobacco prevention. I am pleased that the government proposes such a use of the money, as I have great faith in the local commitment, also in this matter. In contrast to us, Sweden, which has much lower rates of cigarettes than Norway, has managed to achieve the WHO target of less than 20 p.p. smokers. In Norway, the number is between 30 and 35 pst. In the light of the above, an overall committee asks the Department to assess in more detail how the Swedish are doing their preventive work. Following the treatment of the Storting Action Plan for the reduction of drug use on 1 December 1998, expectations for a much stronger focus on prevention have been high. So far has such a big wager unfortunately failed. I hope that in the future there will be a broad consensus on a much stronger commitment to prevention in order to reduce recruitment to the addictive environment. It is only a successful prevention strategy that can reduce drug use and reduce the number of new addicts. An investment in prevention in this field will give it back multiple times. Repair costs are very high. The majority of the Committee considers it important to strengthen cross-border cooperation and to contribute to stronger cooperation between public authorities and non-governmental organisations. Norwegian Drugs Police Association is one of many actors working to prevent drug abuse. The association operates on an idealistic basis without receiving public support. I assume that the Council of State takes note of the Committee's wish for financial support to be given to the Norwegian Narcotics Association, so that they can resume their training for police officers and maintain their outreach activity against schools and businesses. I am pleased that a unanimous increase rejects the liberalisation of our drug policy. Our aim is to reduce total alcohol consumption and to raise the initial age of alcohol use. The majority of the Committee does not agree with the Government’s objective of reducing alcohol consumption by 25 pst. from 1980 to 2005 but will, on the other hand, aim to reduce alcohol consumption in line with the WHO’s main objective. I am pleased that the Government will put forward a roll-out proposal on the approval of participation in the EU drug monitoring centre in Lisbon, and continue cooperation within the Nordic countries, the Council of Europe and the United Nations. This is important for example: to prevent alcohol advertising in our sports arenas. It is only through close cooperation in the Nordic countries and Europe that we can achieve our objective. I therefore hope that the Government will be committed to such a strategy. On 16 June this year, the Stortinget examined proposals made by the representatives of Øyågen and Alvheim on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party. The majority decided to submit a number of proposals to the Government for a rapid assessment. I hope that the Council of State will, at an appropriate rate, inform the Storting about the fate of the proposals. The committee majority asked the government to start a treatment with buprenorphine as soon as possible. A few days ago, I received an enquiry from a desperate mother in a city in Oslo. The district has developed a comprehensive scheme which is now to be approved by MARIO. However, this application should be included in the excessive queue waiting for methadone-assisted treatment. More than 340 people are registered in the MARIO queue. What will the Council of State do to ensure that this queue is phased out more quickly and to provide rapid and effective treatment for good treatment conditions requiring the use of buprenorphine?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1351	Norway starts the new millennium by spending almost DKK 180 billion on health and social services. 85 pst. Of these, people's fear is attributed to the bearer element and to our security of ensuring everyone's income in a difficult situation. Social security will continue to help self-help with a view to enabling individuals to support themselves and make the most of their daily lives. The Christian People's Party supports the intention of more flexible and tailored schemes for each individual's needs. It is to be paid to be at work, whether partially unemployed or nearing the end of a professional career. It is worrying that sick leave is increasing both in the public and private sectors and that the increase is greatest for women. NOU 1999:13, Women’s health in Norway, shows that a large proportion of women’s sick leave is due to the scourge of pregnancy. There is no disease to be pregnant. The Christian People's Party considers that the Government should consider whether work leave in connection with pregnancy and childbirth should be recorded differently from normal sick leave. At the same time, I am convinced that one can reduce sick leave by better adapting jobs to those who work there. This applies in general and is a good way to prevent disease and suffering. Work to improve the condition of people with disabilities is well within a good period of time. Finally, all social security offices are available to wheelchair users. The State should be a model for achieving the areas of activity of the Disability Action Plan. It is positive that more and more young people are being outsourced from age institutions. One must be careful to ensure that the new housing offers promote an independent way of life for users. Later this evening we will decide to legislate user-driven personal assistance. Ten million. kr extra next year results in 700 users getting help to decide for themselves their daily lives. The fire effort is on track in the case of increased staffing and the number of nursing and nursing homes. The municipalities have managed to achieve the objective of approx. 3000 new health workers this year. The psychiatry escalation plan requires nearly 10,000 new annual works during the planning period. In addition, a significant number of doctors are required by the fixed medical system to enter into force next year. The government has launched recruitment measures for municipalities with a major medical shortage. Among other things, I mention: better guidance for turnaround candidates, medical cooperation, better temporary work arrangements and the possibility to write down the student loan over five years, so that the amount in the last year is significantly greater than in the previous four years. The training of doctors is increasing, and an important contribution is that SiA is again receiving tasks in the field of clinical education. 15 students are to be admitted to the autumn at the same time as one buys fewer places of study abroad. It is true that a rich oil nation such as Norway takes primary responsibility for education itself. Professionals and access to patients is needed when training in SiA opens. As a representative of the South, I believe it is important for the part of the country that we are included in further education. We have great competence. Only at the Central Hospital in East Agder has 14 of the doctors doctorate! For us, it is important to keep competent doctors in the country while at the same time their work would be more exciting and attractive if they got more involved in medical training. In the districts, students can meet regular patients, most of whom will meet again as finished doctors. I think it's important that a co-operator and exploit each other positively. Our hospitals are treating more and more patients, and many are being prescribed for rehabilitation and aftertreatment at private training institutions. During the hearing, it was found that high proportions may lead to people saying no to such training opportunities. During the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party, contributions to training institutions increased by 20 million. kr, so that the patient's excess weight is lower than today. It is important that the economy does not impede medical treatment, so that more people are provided with the necessaryrehabilitation and rehabilitation services.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1377	I will first correct a typographical error in the Budget indent. S. No 11 for 1999-2000. On page 70, third paragraph, there's a word missing. It's a copy from Innst. O. No 73 for 1998-99 and it shall read as follows: ‘that there may be a derogation from the professional responsibility of a psychiatric superior, this is not only justified in situations where psychiatrists do not exist’. The majority believe that a professional psychologist specialist can be professionally responsible. The budgetary agreement between the Government and the Workers' Party means that we get more social justice and equalization. In the cooperation on the budget, we have also agreed on positive redistribution, including. a. there has been a higher cure price in the training institutions that ensure operation and thus a good offer for patients. The pace plan for psychiatry is as far as we can see, on a route, with a budget of well 400 million. kr more than in 1999. The construction of services in municipalities and counties is under way. It is now important to use the time needed to build up treatment and housing services, and daily settings should not be reduced until patients have received a new offer. I have read with concern in the daily press that such outsourcings and lay-offs have taken place, but I have also registered for the last few days that some municipalities are following up on facilitating the county council to have an opportunity to establish a district psychiatric centre – DPS. In order to achieve the intention of working for people with mental health problems, the next year's budget has raised 27 million. on the Ministry of Labour and Administration's budget for strengthening the work of the National Labour Service for people with mental health problems. It's also set at $18 million. to strengthen labour market measures. During the examination of the mental health promotion plan, a unanimous increase was decided to ask the Government to promote a case on how to ensure good and flexible work opportunities for people with mental health disorders, including: emphasis must be placed on clarifying the responsibilities between municipalities and the labour market seat. The Ministry is in the process of drawing up a consultation note with proposals for wage subsidies, a grant to the employer as financial compensation for the temporary reduction of working capacity. I will also refer to the experience and knowledge of ASVO and AMB companies. An overall committee believes that these enterprises should be involved as actors in the development of actions for people with mental disorders through specific adaptation to work in these enterprises. I would also like to mention the Fontenehuset, which is an important measure in progress in Stavanger, which is under construction in Oslo. The font house is besides a place to be, also a place of work adaptation. The model of transition may indicate good results in terms of return to normal work and education. But someone falls outside and gets disapproved at a young age. During the Week of Business Friday, 10 December, there is a 29-year-old who has always felt outside, and who is now about to be excluded from working life during his lifetime. A broken childhood has set its mark. Psychiatric problems and fear of contacting others are the result. Project like Early intervention might have caught up with his problem at an early stage. Early findings of discrepancies allow early prevention. I think a follow-up to this project, even when the kids get a little bit older, will be useful, and I hope the government will take a positive view of this in the further work on the psychiatry escalation plan. Physical birth is also important for people with mental disorders. Those working to motivate physical activity refer to a good development in all ways for those who have been allowed to attend the Ski Festival in Geilo, or who are riding a horse. Many are lonely and suffer from anxiety, in all age groups. It shows the approach to the help phones, such as Children and Young People's Contact Phone, Mental Health's help phone and the Church's SOS. I'm glad these keep going, and I hope that all of these arrangements, with grants from the Government, will be viewed positively. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the entire committee is in favour of the establishment of radiograph education at the University of Gjøvik. It would be very nice if the education could start from the fall, so that there are trained radiographs ready when the radiation therapy satellite at Gjøvik County Hospital is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1413	The welfare society shall facilitate the return to work. Too many people are out of the ordinary labour market. There are many reasons why people fall outside, such as. failing health and reducing the severity of road accidents or strokes. For those who are formally part of the workforce, the aim must be to bring them back to work. In this respect, I am pleased that the Committee has expressed its opinion that public efforts in the field of rehabilitation are insufficient in relation to the need. I would like to stress the need to strengthen the provision of rehabilitation in order to get as much back to an almost normalized life as possible. Most rehabilitation centres are currently located in Hedmark, Oppland and Buskerud. However, this cannot prevent the centres from receiving State aid. This is not a question of geography but of competence. The most important thing is that people get a well qualified offer. I've seen for myself how much progress can be achieved after staying at the Cato Centre in Son, which helps road damage back to life. I would therefore ask the Council of State to carefully consider the possibility of State grants to the rehabilitation institutions. The working party sees it as important to work for people to benefit from their residual working capacity. Passivity is wasted on human resources. Life can sometimes be difficult. Young people face major challenges and temptations every day. The advertisement tells us how happy we are just looking slim and pretty. Unfortunately, the slender hysteria often ends with eating disorders, which become a coercive strain for many. A survey from Denmark tells us that 10 pst. of those who develop anorexia, die of the disease. Most start with the disease very young and could have been helped if there had been enough offers. There are too few offers according to the need that exists today. I would ask the Minister of Health to follow this disease carefully. It should be a task for the public to ensure that there are several qualified treatment services available to those who need it. Those affected by eating disorders need treatment as soon as possible by psychologists and doctors. Most affected by this disease are young and have a future ahead of them. Good information is important. It is a great responsibility that rests on us as adults and parents. But there is also a need for knowledge from teachers, of course from the youth themselves, but not least from athletes and youth workers. A slight ‘stained’ remark may lead to severe eating disorders. It is especially important for young people to be popular and feel that you are well-like. We are, as we know, the most vulnerable when we stand at the beginning of life. It is therefore necessary to stress that it is a public task to provide adequate and qualified assistance for people with eating disorders. I trust the Council of State will take this signal with me.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1426	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1429	In an NTB message that came today, the word was that the municipalities are guilty of major psychiatry deficiencies. There are many pre-treated psychiatric patients in psychiatric hospitals, and they do not get into the municipalities. And what's the reason for this? Well, answer the municipalities, they lack professionals. It is not only in this area that the municipalities lack professionals. In the vast majority of health and social areas, the municipalities lack professionals, as well as the school shortages. There will not be enough workers in the next ten years to fill the reforms we have adopted. It might be interesting to hear what the Minister of Health is going to do with this. In order to implement all these reforms and ensure that we have professionals in place, a completely different effort is needed on health budgets, but also in general on municipal budgets. This is about education, but it is also about the local government sector being able to have a pay and employer policy that makes people feel that they have a future job and that there are no professions where people suffer from major health problems and have to stop after 10-20 years because they cannot stay. This is a serious matter, which I understand is that the Government has not yet taken seriously, despite the fact that the municipal economic proposition in ours said that if the local government sector is to get the number of professionals they need – and that is up to 58 000, it says – in addition to those that are today, it has to take twice as much of the available power as there is room for in the macro-economy. Then I have also heard that some in the debate have been horrified by part of what is now happening in Kommune-Norge, both in municipalities and in county councils, when it comes to cuttings. It can't be so much to wonder when the local government sector now has the biggest deficit in ten years. I actually believe that municipal politicians and state politicians have at least as much heart and understanding that both hospitals, health services at all levels and social services should have better conditions than today, but it is not possible to do so without money. The responsibility lies in this room, and it is in no way right to push the responsibility downwards, as I see some representatives, perhaps especially representatives of the Progress Party, do. They act as if all moral and political will to secure these areas are in the Storting. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1440	Let me first establish the joy of the government following up the cancer plan in an offensive way, among other things. with the establishment of radiation units and the training of radiographs and radiation therapists. Knowing the need, the plans and the expectations of the East Health Region, I hope that we will be trained by radiographers established in Gjøvik. The emergency response will be further discussed when the Government's message is presented, but it is now important to state that the emergency emergency room is able to maintain this function until the entire emergency chain is completed and they can become part of it. The issue of ownership shall also be subject to an overall review and treatment. More relationships will then be illuminated. Now, what we can say as a positive is that 20 million is being allocated today. kr extra to the training institutions, resulting in an increase in the CCR for Group I and Group II institutions, respectively, of SEK 72 and 57, so that the CRS is SEK 631 and DKK 496 respectively. There will be less need for prowess in this context. The need for rehabilitation and training through, inter alia: the supply of high-quality training institutions is high. The work carried out in this area is of great importance in keeping chronic disorders in check and, where appropriate, in returning to better functioning and to the most normal way of life, including: with normal professional activity. And positive, it's also going to be 4 million. kr, so that the new treatment part can safely be put into service from the autumn of 2000. The work of providing young people with disabilities living in institutions, with their own housing and care services, is in good hands, and it is positive that the government has increased the subsidy to municipalities, so that this now amounts to 1 million. kr per. person. The user-driven personal assistance system has also been well developed, and the increased budget allocation now provides opportunities for 200 new users in the coming years. The Psychiatric Plan is under way, but here's one facing major challenges. It is important to achieve a balanced development and capacity allocation between the 1st and 2nd line services. The apparatus for prevention, aftercare and care needs to be developed better in the municipalities, and it is a pleasure to note that, among other things. shall establish 800 new year-old health centre and school health services. When, among others: The progress party says that there are enough professionals in the municipalities of psychiatry, it must be wrong. In particular, raising awareness and improving the human resources of child and youth psychiatry. The area of mental retardation has been affected, among others. from the Party of Advancement in a line to me. The centre party has been skeptical of Chapter 6(A) of the Social Services Act, and we were actually those who opposed it at previous treatment, as opposed to what the Progress Party did in the subsidiary vote. This should lead to restrictions on the use of force and coercion, and then it is strange to draw out as much resources as the Progress Party, for example. has done here. The work of analysing and following the practice of the law is now important. Quality assurance is important in care, including: by the presence of two service providers. The government has signaled that there should be a Nordic conference within this field, which the Progress Party demanded when we last dealt with the law. But now they're subtracting 50 million. kr for one entry and 10 mill. kr in the second entry, such as this conference is under discussion. It is important to point out that the work of getting better and modern medical equipment in our hospitals is now well under way. I will return to the hospital situation in connection with St.prp. No 13, which comes up later today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1467	The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli raised questions about the situation regarding the intensive capacity of the new-born section of the Rikshospitale. In the light of today's press headlines, I have asked the Rikshospitalet's management to explain the situation and to assess what kind of action is being put in place and which should be put in place to meet this critical situation. Because the situation affects several hospitals in the eastern part of the country, I have also asked the Health Authority and County Medical Practitioners to assess the situation, among others. depending on the requirement for proper treatment of mother and child. The Ministry will consider follow-up on the basis of these reports. The representative, Sjøli, was also concerned about the issue of moving to New Rikshospital. Let me stress that I am serious about the problems you have had with the completion and the move into the new Rikshospitalet. The safety of patients and staff must be overall in the assessment of time and cost frameworks for movement and completion. The main objective remains to ensure entry into New Rikshospital before summer. In order to support the pre-construction period, a new working system is in place to ensure a closer decision-making process between the Rikshospitalet and the State Building. This type of relocation process is highly desirable and means that operations and completion are more intertwined, and you can have temporary operations in parts of the hospital. The new working system is a very important step in the right direction and has resulted in the first patients being re-received to Rikshospital by the launch of MR studies in the Radiological Department. The board of the Rikshospitalet found yesterday that there was no basis for a complete removal decision with the date of the main move and move model now. However, the Governing Board maintains the objective of main relocation before the summer. So today's press production at this point is not right. In order to achieve the user burden on the construction and technical installations, it is important to initiate the movement of the first units. It is therefore gratifying that yesterday's board gave a clear signal that the movement of selected units can start in February 2000. This means that the Institute for Inpatient Research, the Institute for Paediatric Research and the Immunological Institute will move early in February. I would also like to show that the construction project is subject to a thorough review, among other things. on the basis of the National Audit Office's report, and I assume that the Stortinget will return to its final examination of the case in that context. Finally, let me say that the Government has taken the health workforce situation very seriously in relation to the health sector, and that is over 400 million. kr in the draft budget as a commitment to these human resources groups.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1480	Within the health sector, centralisation is an increasing problem. Then it is important that we from the political side do what we can to counteract this centralization. One of the areas of greatest concern in District Norway in general, and especially in the northernmost counties, is the lack of dentists. In addition, the dentists who work in the districts often leave the job immediately after they start working. It has already been shown that as more and more dentists seek from the public dentistry to the private sector, there is a trend affecting the districts. This is a problem that will be reinforced if there are fewer dentists in total. According to the government's proposal for a government budget, there will be about 600 fewer dental years' work in 2015 if there is no training capacity, and a unanimous committee draws the natural conclusion: Education capacity should be increased as soon as possible. In the context of medical training, it is well documented that training doctors in North Norway is the best and most reasonable long-term approach to recruit doctors to the Nordic region. As reported by the Department of Maritime Affairs in St.prp. No 1, the sample commissioned last year to address future dental needs and any dental training in Tromsø has now submitted its report in August. This sample concluded that training capacity should be increased by 67 study places and that 40 of them should be established in Tromsø. In this report, there are two main reasons for setting up dental training in Tromsø. The first is that it's the most reasonable way to recruit dentists to North Norway and Middle Norway. Secondly, an establishment in Tromsø will provide opportunities to develop a model where public health issues are given dominance both in teaching and in practice. I would like to encourage the Minister of Health to focus on these two issues when the Ministry is going to present this matter to the Stortinget. The natural conclusion I believe must be that you follow the advice of the investigation and say yes to establishing dental training in Tromsø. Another thing that involves me very much is the offer to people who are affected by eating disorders. There are questions I have raised earlier in the Questionnaire, but I just want to reiterate that there is a need to make progress in strengthening both treatment provision and prevention in this area. In such an escalation it would be ripping wrong to start by building down the offer, but it would actually be the consequence if the Regional Hospital Board in Tromsø were to implement its proposal to shut down the competence center for eating disorders in Tromsø. That is why I am pleased with the decision that an overall committee is behind, that the government must take responsibility for maintaining the centre of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1491	The development of activity and efficiency must be closely monitored in hospitals. The representative, John Alvheim, gave relatively blatant opinions from this pulpit on increased activity due to input-driven funding. Analyses presented in the budget on page 237 do not show such a unique picture. There was an improvement in productivity from 1996 to 1997, i.e. the year in which an ISF scheme was put in place. From 1997 to 1998, productivity fell, and in 1999 the issue is open. I have not planned to kick bones under the ISF scheme, because it was actually the Workers' Party that proposed and got a majority for it in the Stortinget in 1997. But we have to think carefully about, evaluate the situation and then make the adjustments that seem necessary. We're not good at just believing, we have to know. The table on page 237 on the growth in the number of hospital stays from 1994 to 1998 shows an absolute linear development, totally independent of framework or effort-driven funding, also to reflect on those to assess the scheme. The budget agreement is firm, but we see the need to move forward, especially with regard to the economy of patient treatment, both in terms of assessing the elements of the ISF system and the level of government transfers to the operation of hospitals. Therefore, we have been crystal clear that the county councils today need to be given clear signals that more money is in sight after the Minister of Health has assessed the situation and promoted his proposals for action. When the Workers' Party is criticised for bringing this about too late, one thing must be quite clear: The majority must relate to the Government's numerical material and cannot properly take unilateral decisions on external recordings. In the case of regional hospitals, the negotiators caught the price increase from 1999-2000 in the budget agreement, but probably very much remains in the case of regional hospitals, among others. an analysis of the economy in relation to the problem of implants and relation to expensive medicines. This does not appear to have been captured either in the DRG weights or in the regional hospital subsidy scheme, as it is now. Finally, the community health service, which is the foundation wall of our health care system. Norway is unique in this context. It is a very important step towards improving the provision of services to the general public, and also for doctors to have good working conditions. So I'm surprised that the representative Ballo criticized the Workers' Party for leaning back when we actually do the opposite with the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14.ana.ud2439e1502	Storting continues its treatment of today's map at 1 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
