ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e15	The called alternate of Akershu County, Rikke Lind, has taken the seat. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e32	It is a very strange commercial policy merger we see today between the Progress Party and the Labour Party. This kind of state vision that we're getting leveled out today, I think we have to go back to before 1946 – when the Stortinget captured the idea of Norwegian Jernverk – to find something similar. The difference is that there owned the state 100 pst. of the shares. With regard to what we are talking about today, the ownership of the state is probably somewhere between 50 and 80 pst. It is only an open hearing that could have given an answer to this question, a question that no one has yet been able to clarify. So the leader of the Progress Party performs some sort of glan number that there is no one else here but the Investor Forum IT Fornebu that has presented concrete plans. It can't surprise anyone but Carl I. Hagen and Kjell Opseth. Here, Investorforum's people have been followed by Nils Totland, by Gudmund Hernes, by Grete Knudsen, by Kjell Opseth and by Torstein Rudihagen since 1995-96. Yes, they have even been paid to submit plans, the so-called visionary plans, which today are tailor-made for a solution that you now have to have in place before 1 June. In the horse language, which I have the impression that at least Opseth is comfortable with, you can't say it in any other way than that all the other potential stakeholders are equipped with a minimum of 40 m add-on to this huge rise. And if the warning lamp has not been lit earlier by the rural and educational policies of the Workers' Party, it should have been lit yesterday, when the Minister for Transport explained the additional infrastructure costs. In the case of the 7000-8000 students going into 90,000 m2 and also all the others going into the thousands of homes in the airport area, we're not just talking about an amount of 600 million. No, a figure must be added in front of these figures, which has so far been taken into account in Norwegian road and road traffic plans. Then I think it's going to be a bit of a travel letter that you send home to your people around the country of Norway, who are concerned about their business in higher education and, not least, in matters of transport policy. In the end, the way Kjell Opseth and Carl I. Hagen are closest to humiliating the Minister of Industry must soon make the Minister of Industry know where the pain is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e43	It is no more than fair and reasonable that there will be a long day's journey towards night when the Stortinge discusses the most expensive vision of Norway's history. Part of today's debate has made me think of the sacred writing, Acts of the Apostles, chapter. 2, 17: "Sons and daughters of you shall speak prophetic words, the young men shall have visions, and the old men of your dreams." It was Pentecost, and it was about tongues. It has also done much of this debate, with the substantial difference that the tongue number on Pentecost was understandable to all, while the heavy majority has been operating in this debate, is incomprehensible to most people – I have the impression of them too. It is and will be amazing that throughout this debate, the Group leadership of the Workers' Party has completely shone with its absence, considering that the leader of the Workers' Party has just proclaimed to the entire Norwegian people that the most important task is to isolate the Advance Party from influence in Norwegian politics. At the same time, the Workers' Party has sent out cooperationvits in the East and West, almost as unaddressed broadcasts. But the only party you're able to get into the bedside is the Progress Party. It's almost pathetic. Carl I. Hagen performed in his post today to use the Gardermo case as a model for Stortinget to make big decisions with blindfolds. As far as I understood, he presented it as exemplary. Then it may not be so strange that you experience the radar pair Carl I. Hagen and Kjell Opseth in free play to prevent the light from turning on, so people can see what really happened in this case. What we're facing is probably the largest state-owned business exposure relative to it since it was decided to build Norsk Jernverk in its time. But there are some significant differences. The time when the state did not engage to bind the most expensive plots in Norway on the west side of Oslo for private investor purposes. In addition, at that time, it was clear what it was like to produce. What characterizes today's vision, as it's made, is that it's completely empty. However, what has emerged in today's debate is that there is neither comprehensible educational policy justification, nor comprehensible research policy justification, nor comprehensible business policy justification, which is comprehensible to the state for injecting billions into a corporate structure that no one knows how to look. It is not appropriate to increase respect for the national Parliament of the country if decisions are taken on such a basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e59	The representative Kjell Opseth challenged me quite strongly, I thought, in response to my reply to Rita Tsveiten before today, when she asked what I meant by using the idea of ‘contact’ in the Official Journal of Bergen. I probably showed you the many other press releases and especially the Focus application, which at best left an unclear impression. None of this is in the setting, so it is not on the click, as I said. That this should be the worst thing that has been said from this pulpit, I wonder, because similar things are drawing up that to the bleak today, last in the post before me. I hope that there is nothing in the claims that has come – it would have been an advantage – but I don't understand why the Labour Party just thought that an opal hearing could have clarified all the ignorance and questions that remain unanswered. But the representative Opseth has to forgive me that I am surprised, surprised and a little frightened that the state will go in with a plus/minus two billion kroner in a property company with a number of unsolved questions. This will be a new giant state company. One must hope that the money will be spent, but it says to see. It is also incomprehensible to me how this can happen when the Labour Party has previously said that the realization of the property at Fornebu would co-finance the Gardermoen. Now nothing is sold. And furthermore, I don't like it being so hasty to get started that one doesn't claim the private economic part of the property company. One demands visions and plans and IT requirements, otherwise, but not the crown of the pot, the balance of ownership, the corporate structure. I think it's dissatisfying.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e68	The representative of Wages and salaries just made a very excellent contribution, which showed that there is neither a policy on education nor a policy on research nor a policy on industry for IT for Fornebu. There's no good reason at all, it was a vision – something that someone thought was a good idea, but that probably doesn't turn out to be it. But there's a problem here, and it's that the light of recognition came a little late to the Right and Center as well, and now I'm standing and feeling that this is kind of a ship that's been moving, and that you haven't quite managed to stop. I wish there were more people who said as clearly as wages did now, that we think this might be a bad idea. It would be wiser to spend this money in the education system in another way. But the fact that everyone threw themselves at the idea when it came has led to us being in the situation we're in today. Then I want to say a little bit about the story of Gardermoen. There are at least two decisions that we are now taking at the same time, which are related to the Gardermo. One is the establishment of shooting grounds in Hedmark. It's part of Gardermopaket. There, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party make a common case and ensure that there is a decision here. Others also seem to be involved. The second piece, which I remember very well because I was then the county food rapporteur in Hedmark, was that when we discussed this, the political rationale for adding the airport to Gardermoen was to draw development east and north. That was the reason of the Workers' Party. But once you've opened up this exciting, interesting area in the middle of Oslo, you've suddenly forgotten the goal you had, namely a political desire to pull a different road – not southward and westward, but northward and eastward. Could there be any disagreement that that was right? But that's the reason you had, and that's what you promised, and now you run from it, because you want to create a magnet that pulls very strongly the other way, and that pulls the competence out of an area that absolutely needed it. I also have a vision and an idea. I have a vision that Norway should use its possibilities and resources to expand Norwegian school and research in such a way that every student and every teacher could develop their creativity and competence to the maximum, and that the schools would be the most important and exciting and up-to-date collection and development houses in the whole country. In this vision, there is a cross-cutting cooperation between industry, research and education, and the state was to direct its efforts through funding for education and research and contribute to infrastructure by acting as sponsors and buyers of research. I hope that there will soon be more people getting this vision along with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e79	The President would like to remind Andersen's representative that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e82	It has sometimes been mentioned that this is a matter the Storting has dealt with several times in the past. What is in many ways the basis for today's debate is a follow-up to the decision taken by the Stortinget in June 1998. The majority of the committee then held the position of the Workers' Party plus the government parties. Through St. Meld. No 13 for 1998-99 the Government followed up the decision of the Grand Duchy in June 1998. This time, another majority, the Labour Party plus the Advance Party, have found that there is no immediate satisfaction with the follow-up made by the Government in relation to this decision. This is an honest matter. Nevertheless, it may be a point to point out that there is disagreement with the follow-up of the Government in relation to treatment in June 1998, while some have tried to produce it as if they had not followed up the treatment. There have been several references in today's debate to an entry in the NRK1 yesterday evening. In the current programme, several times, when expressed doubts about what the majority wanted, it was shown that this could be read to in the comments of the majority. There would be a clear answer. On this background I started with great expectations to read the committee comments one more time, it had to be something I had not got with me at the first reading. And I have to admit, I was disappointed. The majority of comments are, in fact, unclear and incomplete at many points. A good example of this was given by a clarification round here today, where the representative Hagen stressed that in the majority comments there was not one word about housing related to IT fornebu. That's absolutely right. There is not a word about housing in the majority remarks. What it says is the following: ‘The majority indicates that IT-Fornebu has expressed a desire to purchase 515 dekar comprehensively. Coke, Terminal Building and Santa to Telenor. The majority believe that this area is relevant to the IT and Competence Centre.’ In order to find out that in the area necessary for an IT and competence centre, there was also more than 200 covers for housing, one actually had to go to the attachment and read a response from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. There would have been a much better decision-making basis for Stortinget if it had been explicitly mentioned that it was also about housing. The state is making substantial contributions to Fornebu – whether it is 1.5 billion, 2 billion or 2.5 billion, can always be an open question. This means that considerable funds are being provided for development in central Norway. What means should be available to support the development of IT in regional Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e101	Today's debate, if one has listened to it and looks at the setting at the same time, must have clarified some of the information that has gone through the media so far. Firstly, there is a clear majority here on the Stortinget – in fact all except SV – that will have an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu of international importance, a knowledge centre consisting of the co-location of education, research and business that will interact with the regional development environment in such a way that they will not be sick of their resources, but on the contrary add the resources they need to be able to where they are and that will interact with the international environment. Quite rightly, someone says that it's an old-fashioned idea, and in fact, it's also over the age of the people behind it. But if you look around the world a little bit, you'll see that it's not right – I have some examples to point out: in recent years there have been several such bets, for example. in a knowledge centre in Austin, Texas, in cooperation between the authorities, the University of Texas and high-tech companies. Ein has recently created a knowledge park in Madison, Wisconsin, in close cooperation between the authorities, the University of Wisconsin and high-tech companies, and one at the University of Cambridge, England, has a corresponding investment to combine nutrition development and knowledge development. I'll stop there, but there's a lot of such examples that this isn't an old-fashioned idea. The second thing that must now be clear to everyone is that there is no government subsidy towards special stakeholders in what is to be done at Fornebu – in any case, the EEA rules will determine the transfer that may be carried out. On the contrary, it would probably be a very good financial management by the state to sit as the owner of the property and participate in the increase in wealth. The next thing that has emerged in today's debate is an insinuation about all sorts of strange interactions, mysterious things in the 'closed room', a hidden agenda – it has been repeated and repeated. But no one has documented the claims – and here I particularly challenge the representative Gabrielsen, who says that evidence is on our side. He hasn't even argued for it. All he does is show that I was a State Secretary at a time when the responsibility for Fornebu was transferred from the Swedish Aviation Agency to Statsbyggen. At that level, one argues to justify the insinuation of a so-called "contact". What is also clear is that some government councils are now protesting against all the world – but they have agreed to be on the move. And they will certainly have to do that, so they will have to keep their positions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e112	This is an extreme case of a table prisoner-case. As it has evolved, more and more questions, premises are changing, while the players involved and the support players have been given a height of fall which makes the mountain-wet rule ‘there is no shame in turning’ impossible. They don't even have the ability to ask critical questions. It went out strongly the alliance of power that gave the outside world the impression that it was inconceivable – this will be realized anyway. They created a network. To put it another way, with a Nordic rector, represented in Nordlys last February under the title ‘ Impossible to compete with IT-Fornebu’, which concluded with ‘If you can’t beat them, join them’. Many have clung to the hope that when it rains on the priest, it may drip a little on the clock too, and that it was important not to be disconnected when this is realized, not because they believed in the project, but they were afraid to be put outside. There will be more and more questions without answers. The role of the IT centre in education policy is very unclear. The IT industry has indicated that they do not have such an interest in this. The alliance or conspiracy is not an IT alliance. It is a power alliance of politics, trade unions, participating interests and lobbyists in the worst sense of the word. We may not be sitting with an IT centre in a few years. We can sit with the nation's largest business park as a result. Is that what we need in the press area down here? There are no impact assessments on the impact of rural policy in this project. In any case, this centralisation of jobs will require huge infrastructure investment. Someone would have come anyway, but they have to be taken care of. No one knows the investment needs and schedule. But those in this room who come from the districts and support the project should have the courage to tell on the way home: Sorry, IT Fornebu requires so much road and rail investment that we will probably have to scrap the budgets for the rest of the country for a few years to come. In other words, we're starting next millennium with the biggest centralization project in history, and the fact that it's a process is causing me discomfort. The majority in this room do not want the public to look at them in the cards. Why can't we listen to the educational institutions? It is not essential to know what role IT Fornebu should play in our future education policy. Why do they not want the industry to be heard? It may have something to add about information technology in future Norway. Do not the majority need to know what is expected of investors – how much are they going to spend on the project? What should be the basis for the participation of the State? And what could be the alternative use of the funds? We don't know the centralization effect either. There are so many questions and so few answers. It seems that the majority are deaf to objections and blind to the consequences of their decision-making. This unfortunate alliance of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party says they have nothing to hide. No, it's rarely recognized that they have it. But then it would not be so dangerous to put the search light on the project. And if you don't have anything to hide, that doesn't mean you can't need to know, that knowledge can benefit them too. But I guess the table's been too long.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e129	Information technology has grown to become a forward-looking giant industry. In this, Norway should be in the forefront. Now it seems that this is so urgent that you cannot do the preparatory work that is needed in such an important matter. Here it seems that power and reason no longer play on layers when it's up to it to decide. It may seem that the Investor Forum, which is behind the plans, has more money than IT competence. It also appears that this is a long-term approach to property development. On the weekend, the message was that nine out of ten IT and data companies have no plans to move, except Telenor with Hermansen, which you are one of the owners of IT Fornebu. Secretary-General Per Morten Hoff of the National Association of Business and Computer Engineering says after Stavanger Aftenblad on 22 February this year: ‘This is a political decision without understanding how our industry works. We don't have to stick together at Fornebu, we have the technology, what we need is capital that can be injected into new and exciting companies." It has appeared that in this case there is someone who knows very well what to do. And many have let themselves be run over by what Andreas Hompland calls a «teaching in skillful lobbyism and political seduction». We have not yet seen anything about the development costs and the re-priorities of billions that the Fornebu project will require in transport investment. But it'll be there. And who will be the losers in this? Yes, the public education system, District Norway with its wishes for university, for example. in Stavanger, and the taxpayers with their money, which a certain party here is so busy. The same party is also very much afraid of giving up subsidies. Now they're also afraid of competition. What has happened since they now go in to give Peace. Olsen and Co. a heavily subsidised land and buildings? It is also apparent from a statement to the Business Committee that central educational institutions such as NTNU and SINTEF in Trondheim warn against allowing a private developer to have such a strong impact on education. After being issued by NTNU and SINTEF, which are not anyone at all, this will weaken the public education system and serve as a centraliser. It is this and many similar obligations to use when we now say no to the plural proposal from the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e147	You can sometimes, when you hear articles like the last one here, ask what's the point of a big debate. I would have liked to be demonstrated where in the majority comments and majority voting and in the proposals there is something about subsidisation. It's rebutted time and time again. There is no subsidisation at all. Inge Wohnung brought a canonade to this vision. It might be interesting to hear why the Right really agrees with the vision, but will organize it in a slightly different way. The right is that there should be an information and knowledge centre at Fornebu. But instead of one company coordinating and organising it, the authorities on the education side are going to do it, and then you're going to invite companies to establish themselves separately. The final result is meant to be almost the exact same. Why is Right then part of the vision, but simply disagrees with the practical way of organizing and organizing it. And then we hear Inge Wage, which has a canonade for all that's on it. That's pretty remarkable. So it's talking about that there's going to be so much roads and transport, track and trains, etc. on Fornebu. The key is what Bærum municipalities regulate the area to. It depends on the number of jobs created there, not what these jobs may produce. It depends on how many dwellings are added to Fornebu. It is completely independent of the matter we are discussing here today. It has nothing to do with this matter at all. Nevertheless, it is argued that if you do not follow the majority's way of organizing it, and there is no other way than that the majority has pointed out, it will be nothing of it. There is, of course, no solution from the majority or from the Government on how this should really be done, so it is really a remarkable debate. Then it is said that enormous public funds should be invested forever, even more representatives of the majority have made it clear that later, when the business is going well, the state's shares in this company – at least we have said that, and I think the Workers' Party has also said it – may be sold again. The question is whether to sell their values now in the form of land and buildings, or whether to enter into something that is community building, social creation, creating growth for the future, and then withdraw the money at a later stage. We don't need the money, because it's almost 150 billion kroner in a foreign fund that this money goes into. It's not the money in itself you need, because it's the financial policy that governs what you spend money for in this country, not the lack of money as such. I must say I am very surprised at this debate and insist that we will support the position of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e161	I have to admit, I'm also a little surprised at the great commitment in this debate, because in reality, the whole thing is the Storting, unbecoming SV, saying that we're going to have an IT competence center at Fornebu. One thing that's not clear is how to point out those who are going to build this – whether it's going to be done through the bingo method, by selling it to the highest bidder, without having any plans in the direction of an IT competence centre in Fornebu, or whether to select private actors according to their plans for a forward-looking national IT competence centre of international format. And then I ask myself, why the very commitment of some? Then, to put it mildly, I get a little frustrated, because now we've been running on here for a whole day and discussing whether the majority's proposal is to subsidize. And no one can prove that there's any subsidization, but they're taking it up again and again. I think they're starting to wonder at me. What is the actual fact is that here there should be a rate, and the rate will be the determining factor for the value that the State places on this company. I just came from a debate with the State Council of Sponheim and representatives from IT Fornebu, who are like sitting on the big, ugly wolf, and they say that if the Stortinge has the intention that there should be 50-50, yes, that's the basis, among other things. IT Fornebu must stick to it. I now think we should try to get this debate on the path it's going to be, and it's that there's a relatively large deal in this room that we're going to have an IT competence center on Fornebu, but it's going to happen more or less randomly according to Right and Government Party's vision, and in more order conditions after the Labour Party and the Progress Party's vision. So to this with SINTEF and NTNU. Sintef and NTNU were for that in the first place. So the government part and government part gave us some crazy information, and then they turned around. But I know that today, when they have read the setting, which is completely identical to the one we had last June, as close as the decision is to blame, then NTNU and SINTEF are positive to the arrangement that is leading.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e178	Karin Andersen has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e181	There's one thing I agree with Hagen and Opseth in, because I'm also a little surprised at the intensity of the other parties that have been on the move here, but who have gradually realized that this was wrong. But that the questions come up again and again and there's no answer, so that's a reality. That's why we're so skeptical and we're fighting this so hard. I can't help noticing Hagen's judgment and critical sense of what he hears, when he manages to say that money we have enough of, we don't need it, while on the other hand he manages to argue that this project we give to Fred. Olsen and IT Fornebu, because they have so much money, so they have no desire in the world to earn more. When you hear such arguments about why you're negotiating, and want to negotiate directly with someone, you have to become skeptical. And finally, we haven't received a response to this 50-50 model, which Opseth was now up and talking about, and we haven't received a response or a majority assessment of how this project can bring the state's assets under control through bankruptcy. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e190	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e193	The ability to wonder is valuable and worth taking care of. I registered that the representative Opseth wondered about the strong commitment, in a very committed post. At the same time, he tried to present it as if there were no difference in substance at all between the majority's position and the minority's position in the Committee's position. It is truly amazing if the representative Opseth has participated in the long-term committee process and has not even discovered that difference. The difference is, of course, that the majority want the State to be involved here in the formation of a company with extensive obligations and extensive financial risks. And if there's no difference in position, it's very hard to understand what political differences are. The representative Hagen also wondered. He wondered that I should have shot guns on a vision. It's about the last weapon I'd find to use against intangible sizes like visions. But in my business, visions are usually free. The majority's vision in this case is absolutely not free of charge. It involves, as I said, a rather drastic state involvement with private participations, and at the same time it is fundamentally unclear what the project described by the majority actually involves of activities. The only thing that's clear is that the area you want to dispose of is many times larger than what can be used for what's claimed to be the primary purpose, namely education and research. I must be allowed to remind the representative Hagen – as I did in a previous line change this morning – that the Progress Party itself wrote with the Right in the Budget at least last year. S. No Article 2 is «These members believe that investors who want to develop an ITK centre on Fornebu must rely on paying market prices for the properties.» I assume that, according to normal Norwegian, it means that it is going to happen in the way that market prices are normally tested, that is, by leaving it to the market. Next, the Progress Party, together with the Right a year ago, wrote: ‘These members do not want the State to join the formation of companies with private operators in the after-use of Fornebu...’ It must be allowed for everyone to wonder, and what I'm wondering about, is what has happened after the time that has led the Progress Party to the exact opposite position, 180o around, of the party that took in a year ago.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e216	Having gone quite high in his first post, the representative Hagen, with the good result of the representative Opseth, tries almost to give the impression of astonishment that there should be both commitment and opposition to what the majority has proposed here, that is to say what is in the proposal of the Labour Party and the Progress Party. Would this proposal be so self-evident that all questions and objections would somehow fall to the ground? This is a project with a state involvement that is stronger than we've seen for quite a long time. And the representative Hagen said that if this goes well, the state can withdraw its shares of companies, and in that way this is also a long-term, sensible investment object. In other words, there's a risk in this, because Hagen said if it goes well – and there's every reason to take the reservation if, of course, there's a risk. If this was such a yellow suit as this one here gets the impression, of course private capital would set up for this whole project without any problems. But because the minority also sees that there is a need for state involvement because there is a risk, we agree that a state involvement is necessary. The point is that there is a sea of difference in the extent of the country's involvement. The areas considered necessary by the Progress Party and the Workers' Party to realise the vision of the majority proposal are identical to those presented by IT Fornebu as they deem necessary. And that's where one asks the big question: is it so that the vision of IT fornebu has, and that they've worked through, is the one that takes the best care of the valuable areas, which is the one that gives the best return of the very important and valuable properties out on Fornebu? It is 530,000 m2 of floor space that joins this vision, according to the majority proposal, of which 260 000 m2, approx. half, goes for purposes other than those related to the IT idea itself. It's these relationships, that's the way to use the state's properties and the state's values, that the minority thinks one should go through very carefully to get up alternatives, in order to make sure that what remains as the best idea, has really been tested, tried against other possibilities, and tried on the premises that the minority has based in its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e228	I think one has to prepare for the fact that we are now entering for landing in this case. I think we'll do it a little bit differently than what Opseth does when he tries to represent it as if there's a great deal of consensus here. Let's at least be so straightforward -- whether we're sitting on one side or the other side of the table -- to say that here it's a completely opposite starting point for how we're going to solve this. Grete Knudsen asked in his post whether the others have presented their visions. I think the time has come to put the visions a little aside now and start looking at the realities of this case. And let's just admit that there's a total disagreement about how to do this. This is very clear from the setting. And that's unnecessary insofar as some of the parties are trying to exaggerate this. But when you hear Carl I. Hagen say that in the end we can sell out here, one should at least be aware of one thing, and most people who have tried to sell: to sell one thing, it has to be a buyer who is willing to pay what is current. And I think this majority doesn't intend to start selling this out. But what has been good in this debate is that we have got a clarification on the absolutely vital question. I'm not quite sure, but I now assume – and those who represent the majority can correct later on if I'm wrong – that it's a 50-50 company owned by the state and private investors the majority think we should have. The assets to enter the company are the land of the State; it is in its ultimate consequence the land of Oslo municipality, they approx. 300 deckers, and parts of the Koksa void, i.e. 515 Decor as described in the setting. That means that we get an equity on the government's hand between 2 and 3 billion dollars. It might as well be 2.1 as 2.9, let's not worry about the details. What is at least certain is that we establish the largest company in which the state is a partner with private investors, and here lies the core of the disagreement. Right and SV and the Government want to establish a training piece within 8000 m2 and add some relatively loose leads, known as IT guides, which also reduce the value of the plot and which the State Council has estimated to be in the range of 200 to 300 million. kr. I find it difficult to understand the wound that Rudihagen brings to light by informing who was the Secretary of State and Council of the Ministry of Transport of the current autumn. If this was such a brilliant idea you'd come up with when you brought this into St. Prop. No 1, one should take credit for putting this on a track, and that today it is crowned with luck by bringing with it the Progress Party in the deciduous greatest industrial policy commitment of the state along with private.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e239	There are many who have expressed their amazement at this debate. That's actually me, too, but in addition to that, I'm startled. I am startled that it is possible to put words as some people do, if you look at the facts in this case. After Unn Aarrestad's contributions, it is necessary to quote once again what the Centre Party was doing in the budget configuration from the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs. There they said the following, and it was a long time ago: ‘This majority also sees it desirable for the State to take an active part in the realisation of the vision of an internationally attractive – internationally attractive – ‘IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu’. In addition, they said: ‘This majority considers, in this context, that, through a combination of sales, purposeful long-term fasteners and corporate formations jointly with private operators, it could facilitate participation...’» I then ask myself, how could the Central Party be involved in this formulation when you see how they act today? How could they contribute to saying that the State should or could participate actively, and with properties if necessary? At last they jumped off, and then they stabbed us in the back, to say it brutally, but that's what happens. I have no other explanation for that than that it is simply fear because there has been media noise about the matter. Then the courage failed. After this debate, we are also told to give peace. Olsen these properties. How is it possible to put words in such a way? It is this government, which, among other things, The centre party is involved, which will decide who will participate, which private actors will be involved. And I have to say, after all, I actually have so much confidence in the government that I think they're able to pick the right ones. Inge Myrvoll suggested that it would be difficult to defend this case in District Norway. I don't think I want to have the least problem defending what we're into today. For what is the alternative? What is the alternative for the state to enter actively and heavily? Well, it's that private investors can freely establish an IT centre at Fornebu, and then we have nothing to do with, nothing to influence, and then what about vacuuming the competence of universities and colleges and district Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e263	Carl I. Hagen has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e266	I thought this was a general political debate according to Section 35 of the Rules of Procedure. I'll ask the President to assess it. It has been said that in a way, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party have said yes to the area request from IT Fornebu. We don't. We have registered that it is a wish from one interested party. That's all we've said at that point. It is true that Inge Wohnning says that we have gradually gained a little more understanding that in order to achieve this, there must be some who have some kind of overall control with it. To get it on our legs, we've reconsidered our position regarding the state becoming a partner. So we also don't have the state terror that some people have committed to us, and especially not on the educational side, which is a state responsibility. However, market prices are to be paid, and they are to be established in the way that is perfectly normal, namely through an independent market tariff in accordance with the EEA rules. So we haven't turned around. And no one has talked about any risk in that these properties will be valuable. There is no risk at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e275	It has been said from many through the debate that the Government has not followed up on what was being done by Stortinget, when the Stortinget last dealt with this matter, and I will therefore try to take a brief look at what has been done in relation to what was being done. One has come back to the Storing with a government commitment. We even say that we should own what's educational and facilitate education. The question was either to own alone or with others. The part that relates to education, we say we should own, and that's what our party here in the Storting is still in favour of. So it's said that when it relates to the area, we haven't followed up. Among the stakeholders who have signed up, there is a request for 90 dekars, one in 200 dekars and one in 500 dekars. What Has the Government Followed? We have followed up on what is left of the state's property, approx. 200 dekars, which was the average of the stakeholders who had signed up. I thought it was also a reasonable way to follow up. So it's said that it's kind of not to take matters seriously that we're going to have an international center -- at the latest, the center party was due because they didn't follow up, and they dropped off and left the Labour Party with the problem. If you go back and look at what's done by leaders, the government has followed them up. The difference here is that while the government says that we take the financial responsibility for what's going on in education and research, the majority here today say they're willing to put in a share of between $1.50 and $2.90 billion. That's a pretty dramatic difference. And I should be able to assign a lot of other places where we could use the same money. In addition, at least the Workers' Party, which is part of this plurality, has helped to dispose of SEK 2.3 billion in this year's budget for balancing. They're taking away one now and thus weakening the budget by NOK 2.3 billion. I don't know who uses to talk the most about financial responsibility. I thought it's good to talk about it in every way, and here, a budget of 2.3 billion is weakening. I want to claim that the Government has followed it up as the order. The Minister of Economic Affairs, as IT manager, has presented this to Stortinget in this message in a good way, and therefore it is not possible that we have not followed up. And then there's a mess here today in relation to how hard a person should go into the owner's side, and the government doesn't see it as the task to drive housing development at Fornebu.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e291	No salary has spoken twice and is given the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e294	The leader of the party agreed that the party had a slightly different understanding. What I quoted instead shows that the party believes exactly the opposite of what you meant a year ago. If this is a slightly different understanding, it'll be exciting to see what happens when the party really comes to a different understanding! What you've decided to do is actually to think about a thought that you explicitly distanced yourself from a year ago, and it's not a single argument that it's necessary for the state to be part of such a company in order to get to the IT project that was initially agreed on at Fornebu. It is not during this debate that a single argument, as I have heard, can prove that this construction is necessary. Then it is quite high to play with the state's funds to go into the project that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party are in favour of. Finally, I note that the Group leadership of the Labour Party still excels with its total absence in this debate. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e301	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e304	The representative, Breimo, had a visit to the Center Party. If Breimo doesn't see the difference in the dimensions between the structure of the majority and the minority, yes, it's the Labour Party and the Breimo's own problem. With regard to the issue of State participation, it is likely that Breimo must also have recorded that the minority option is still a matter of state involvement, but in an area where it is natural for the State to engage. A proposal has been made for the matter to be referred back to the nutrition committee and for an open consultation to be held. It has been criticised as impractical because nothing new has happened. As I mentioned earlier today, it has actually – after the suspension has been given – come down with statements such as, among other things. shows that the parties which support the majority in relation to the role of the public education system in this matter have a widely different view of what is involved. It might have been interesting to clarify. In addition, it is also a reality that it is, for example: in the television debate last night, it was made clear that there is a great deal of uncertainty about what the private investors here are going to do, whether it is interesting to bet – as it has been suggested by the stakeholders for whom this arrangement is actually quite tailor-made. Let me also mention some other uncertainties that speak for more thorough treatment and consultation. These include: doubts as to the interest of the IT industry in the performance project established. The Minister for Transport has given some interesting and perhaps, in the opinion of many people, frightening information about the consequences of transport policy, so here there are actually quite a number of things that speak for this matter to be sent back, and that there should be an open hearing. And then I can't hold back a comment in the end, because I've gone back and seen what was the basis of the Storting's decision to hold an open hearing, and one of the arguments that was used most extensively and that is strongly underlined in the setting is the following: ‘Open consultations may help to make visible how specific interests and press groups seek to influence the political decision-making process.’ I mention for the record that Carl I too. Hagen was behind these remarks.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e323	I understand that people are soon getting naked from the debate, but it was the Council of State Lilletun who still made me ask for the word when he talked about that the Labour Party and the Progress Party will now spend 2.3 billion kroner on this project. I thought, first of all, that today's debate had clarified that this is about sitting on some owner parts of a time, instead of selling them now, and then maybe taking out a wealth of time. It's a long-term, good investment for the state. It's not about spending $2.30 billion. The second is the amount of $2.3 billion. State Council Lilletun's own government has come to Stortinget at several times and informed that it is probably too high a value estimate. It is said that municipality level 2 for the municipality of Bærum adds to such a low level of exploitation that it will reduce the value. It's in the government's own budget. Secondly, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has informed that an IT management sets certain limits and reduces the value. And thirdly, we're informed that there has to be a lot of cleaning up on Fornebu, which will also cost a lot of money. So the net value of the land that the state has on Fornebu is a whole other than NOK 2.3 billion. What information is correct? Are those that the Government has previously given, or are those with which the State Council of Lilletun is now operating?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e332	Since the Council of State Lilletun is not the Council of State for this matter, he has had statements twice before and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e335	It'll work out, too. I used multiple numbers. I didn't say there was NOK 2.3 billion in this project. I said it could be 1.5 - 2.9 billion, but it's 2.3 billion kroner the budget is aged with, and neither the Labour Party nor any other party had deposits against it was a figure for which it was realistic to sell at that time. Therefore, the budget is weighted at NOK 2,3 billion in relation to this Decision. When it comes to the other numbers, it's done well for earlier today by several from the Government and from the Government Party, and the same thing is done in other posts, that it's not easy to determine exactly what it's worth, but it's about entering a billion-dollar society to develop the whole area. And this is what I also said in my first post, and I think it's safe to say.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e344	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2165]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e358	In the previous case, there were questions of vision, competence and education. In the case we are dealing with now on the basis of a specific message from the Civil Ombudsman, something is going on that is so sad as the closure of schools. I'm not going to draw the parallels any further than that, I just want to stress that there is a unanimous committee that has examined and dealt with this matter, but that there are shared opinions in the committee on the procedure that have been in relation to the closure of these four schools in Skånland, Höjanger, Fyresdal and Gausdal municipalities, respectively, which the decision includes. The Committee agrees with the Ombudsman when he found it necessary to criticise the fact that the parents and students at the Breisstrand School were not informed of the various proposals for administrative decisions before the decision was taken by the Municipal Council, which led to major changes for school pupils. We also take seriously the fact that the Law of 13 June 1969 No. 24 § 32 nr. 1 has not been followed up. It is clear that each of the schools is to set up a cooperation committee with two teachers' representatives, one representative of other appointed members, two representatives of the parents' council, two representatives of the pupil's council and the principal as a representative of the municipality. This is for these matters to be dealt with in such a way that the different views are heard. The Committee would also stress that we agree, and it is unanimous, that the rules of procedure in such cases must be followed up better than what has been done here. It is unfortunate that later decisions have been contested. But it may not be so strange, as the parties that have not been heard in a thorough and serious way feel overwhelmed. Therefore, at least a unanimous committee emphasises that the rules of procedure exist for them to be followed in such cases before a decision is taken. Otherwise, I have to say that, according to the majority and minority of the committee, the big issue has been the majority of the committee's comments, which state that much of what has arisen in terms of the closure of these schools is about special legislation versus parts of the administrative law. We believe, on the part of the Progress Party and the SV, that these four issues clearly show that, under the law, democracy does not work in a way that we have served. It is a fact that there have been many discussions about the closure of schools. It is also a fact that when several have appealed to the county council in such cases, on the grounds that the procedural rules have not been complied with, the hearings of all those to be taken into consideration have not been carried out before the municipal councils have taken their decisions. I just want to refer to the position we have put forward, and it is at least a unanimous committee that is pleased that the civil ombudsman has once again pointed to an important area where, as elected politicians and local governments, we have to follow the rules that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e378	Since the Centre Party is not represented in the Control and Constitutional Committee, I would like to make a statement on this matter. It is good that we have bodies in our democratic system that can ensure that elected bodies respect the rights of individual citizens, even when they constitute a cooperative body, in this case the school cooperation committee. I know there are difficult balances that have to be made when school structures are to be assessed, and there are many feelings that are affected when one's own school is threatened. There are innumerable requests that flow to us big business representatives on such matters, despite the fact that this belongs to another decision-making body, namely the municipalities. These are things that really involve people in the communities. Today's position deals with the Civil Ombudsman's briefings and views on four specific complaints about school leavings. I want, like the committee majority, not to go into the individual issues, but, on a principle basis, to express some views. I note that the Ombudsman has critical views on the proceedings in the cases in question. I'm quoting from the setting's page 2, which is in the summary section: ‘The Rules of Procedure contribute to ensuring that matters are as well informed as possible before decisions are taken. By submitting the cases to the cooperation selections of the schools concerned, the implicated parties are also informed that the school can be closed, and they can thus express their views on the matter before the decision is taken. If parents/pupils had been involved in the process, it would have been easier to accept these decisions after the ombudsman – and here is a word missing, President – ‘and perhaps it would have been easier to accept these decisions’. I fully agree with that. Although the decisions are valid, the Civil Ombudsman points to a problem that has been the subject of several public debates, namely that the administrative law and other laws governing the functioning of the administration and the rules of procedure should help to give democratic legitimacy to the decisions taken. A fundamental principle is that interested parties should be given the opportunity to comment. That is precisely what is being pointed out, and it is an important reminder for local decision-making bodies. I'm going to stick to the majority comment where it says: ‘However, the majority emphasise that once local authorities have established cooperation committees to deal with such issues, it is very bad administrative practice, in the majority’s view, not to hear those bodies.’ This should be so obvious that it would be unnecessary to notice it, but the bulk of the population, including the centre party, thinks this is in place in this case. The Ombudsman has pointed out in his annual reports for several years that the rules of procedure are not properly followed in the administration. I hope this case can help municipalities that have some pigs in the woods – to say it like that – to tighten up in this area. We who work on school matters are especially concerned with getting parents more involved in school, both in terms of learning arrangements, in social contexts and in the development of the physical environment. The importance of cooperation with parents has also been underlined in the school laws and parental messages recently adopted by the Stortinget. I'm afraid that parents who have experienced being overrun in matters where they should have been told may lose the motivation to work on school matters in general. It is therefore important that we have an open dialogue with all stakeholders. This is an important element of local democracy – perhaps a timely reminder in a local election process. We who conduct politics must never lose sight of who we work for, namely the individual citizen of the city and the village. It requires that we have close contact with people most, and that we are willing to listen to our actual sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e410	Since the Left is not represented in the Control Committee, it may be useful to take the floor to make a few comments on the present position. The case concerns proceedings in connection with the closure of primary schools. I think it might be a point to consider the procedure more closely, to stress that students have compulsory schooling in primary school, and that a school drop-out and a change in the place of school can stand a little different than in high school, where it's just about a right and not even a duty. It is the local government that decides, in reality, which school each student is to attend and thus carry out his or her schooling duties. What you notice very clearly is that issues of school leaving often raise a significant commitment to the parents, and to the extent that those students, this concerns. I'm probably inclined to think that in many ways you should look at which school a student is going to attend, as a question of where he is going to fulfil his responsibilities in relation to the municipality, in relation to the public. On this basis, it is probably my opinion that there is an obligation here for the municipality to allow the interested parties to express themselves – in order to use an approximate wording. This means, in practice, that the individual school in question must be given the opportunity to comment before this happens. The parents, and to the extent that the students associated with this school should have the opportunity to express themselves before the school is closed. If you have a cooperation committee, you have a very good body there to get this done. If you don't have a cooperation committee, you should actually in other ways make sure that this was done. I must therefore say that I am not just pleased with the majority remarks on a few points, where it says: ‘The majority cannot see that the municipalities were obliged to put the question of school drop-outs before the cooperation committees prior to the handling of these cases by the elected bodies, so that decisions were taken without having obtained an opinion thereby invalidating.’ What is quoted here can be useful enough if you are very aware that you have to pay attention to the last thing that says – that is, if decisions are taken in such a way that they become invalid. I would very much like to stress that the procedural duty to present this to the cooperation committees is to be present, but another matter is the consequence of the fact that one has failed to fulfil an obligation in relation to the issue of invalidity. The other thing that I'm also not very happy with in the majority remarks comes down a little bit in the position where it's called: ‘The majority will therefore point out that it may be problematic when the rights of the specially appointed sample conflict with the overall planning and priorities of the top elected bodies.’ This can be good enough as a general statement. In the context of what is being said here, I think this is actually a little problematic, because this is a right in dealing with a matter, namely that you should be heard and have the opportunity to express your opinion and your views. There's one thing, something else is decision-making. It is clear that it is to be added to the local council or to another body to which the local council may have added it. As a summary: without doing any good for all the shades in the formulations – and with a very clear clarification that there is no big difference in the views of the majority and minority – I allow myself to say that I essentially agree with the views of the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e436	I am pleased that the Control and Constitutional Committee has not found any grounds for criticism by the State Education Office in these cases. It is important that that part of the administration works satisfactorily. However, I am serious about the fact that the municipalities have not heard more about their parents in the cases in question. The right parents have to present their views on schooling is a right I attach great importance to. Having a school in the community may have a lot to say for children and parents. The environmental sphere gives elephants and parents security and creates a close relationship between school, home and community. For me, therefore, it is obvious that parents should be able to give their opinion before the municipality makes a decision on decommissioning issues. In order to contribute to better procedures in the municipal proceedings, the Ministry issued an information letter on 10 February 1999 to all municipalities. In writing, the Department acknowledges that municipalities have to make sure that schooling issues are well settled and that the groups in question have the opportunity to make their views known. I also refer to the new training law, which I hope will help additional people to strengthen their parents’ right to express themselves. In the new laws, municipalities are given permission to regulate the admission areas of the individual schools. When such regulations are amended, administrative laws require groups to be informed. It also conforms to Input. O. No 70 for 1997-98 by the Church, Education and Research Committee, in which they stated: ‘Questions about school structure and possible school closures have a major impact on parents and the community. The Committee considers it important to give parents the opportunity to comment on these issues before decisions are taken. In this context, the Committee would point out that, in its comment on the second sentence of Section 8-1 of the first paragraph, the Ministry takes the view that Section 37 of the Administrative Act implies that, among other things, the Board of Parents or the Committee of Cooperation of the individual schools must be consulted before the municipality adopts the regulation.» By means of State supervision and guidance from the education offices, the Ministry will follow up the new training law so that parents and other groups involved in the school community are included and given their views when important decisions are to be taken. For the future, it must be a matter of self-evidentity to send questions of educational instruction to parents and other groups in the school community in good time before decisions are to be taken by the local government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e454	There is consensus in the Committee that municipalities should not have behaved in the way they did in the proceedings in relation to the question of the closure of these schools. It is clear that there would have been an opportunity to have a political process in these municipalities that might have calmed down after the decisions had been taken, instead of getting into a process where you had extensive complaints and great noise. However, what has been important for the majority to obtain through its comments is the distinction between what is a valid decision taken and what is an invalid decision. It is quite obvious that even though the municipalities should have heard the cooperation committees, they did not have an obligation to do so, and the decision on termination was not invalid. It has been important for the Committee to point out this precisely because there has been a wide range of complaints and some criticisms have been raised, among other things. against state educational offices around the counties, a criticism that we thus say has been unwarranted. However, it does not exempt these municipalities from the relatively strong comment that both the majority and the minority really fully agree that the municipalities have exercised very poor judgment and had very poor procedural treatment in relation to what they should have had. It is nice that the civil ombudsman has promoted the matter to Stortinget in such a way that there are opportunities to get this widely known and published. On the other hand, the Stortinget should also be reminded when dealing with issues relating to the development of local democracy and the right of individual local government to manage and organise the activities in their municipality in the way they themselves seem best to be, to be a little careful with specific legislation in some areas of the municipality’s activity. I do not consider this to be a problem if the Storting is always aware that special legislation must be adapted to the requirements of the Stortinget and the State provide municipalities with respect to good financial management, good long-term planning and good management of the resources available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e463	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2166]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e479	It's not the first time this question is raised in this room. It has been traveled repeatedly, and it has been traveled in various forms, among others. a Document No was promoted. Eight proposals by the then head of the Church, Education and Research Committee, Jon Lilletun, in 1995, suggesting that a separate selection be set up to investigate the problems of research independence. This case was dropped into another track, and as far as I know, it is supposed to come back in the research report that the Council of State and the Government will present to the Storting during the current session. So it is going to be an opportunity to return to the matter in the course of the discussion of that notification. Once I've traveled this interpellation now, it's because the press has had a series of headlines that have raised the question of what really happened in the so-called follow-up research that was initiated in connection with the implementation of Reform 94. However, the question does not relate to this case alone; it relates to a series of examples that we have had over the last few years, which have shown that departments and state councils have had a considerable will, sometimes also a certain ability, to direct research towards the results that the Council of State and the Ministry wanted. The newspaper had a full series of reports on this in the summer of 1997. And then you had two completely fresh examples. In fact, the current Minister of Finance Stoltenberg argued that the research managed by the universities and the Norwegian Research Council should be free. The research, on the other hand, initiated by individual departments does not have the same status and can be managed to a completely different extent by the grantor. In the same series of reports on the summer of 1997, the then Director of the Foundation for Societal and Industrial Research at the Norwegian School of Business, Torger Reve, today Vice-Chancellor of the BI, said that Kjell Opseth had made a quite clear and strong attempt to intervene in a research project commissioned by the SNF, and wanted to change the researchers' conclusions on crucial points before the publication of the research report. And when Reve said no to this, the Council of State instead made the peculiar feature that on the day before the publication of the research report, he sent out a press release from the department that polemized against the research report that had not yet been published and that the Council of State itself had ordered. I have had the opportunity to follow Norwegian research policy over a significant number of years. The attitude in the research environments has changed. In the 1970s, we had a wave where almost all the Norwegian research community was fundamentally skeptical of mission research initiated and paid by the private business community. It was related to the ideological waves that washed across the Western world in the late 1960s and 1970s. In the 1980s and 1990s, my particular impression is that attitudes have changed, and the general view in the Norwegian research community today is that private sponsors usually do not attempt to direct either conclusions, problems or methods in research. On the other hand, once again, government departments and governments are trying to do just that. Once I've raised this interpellation with a background in the discussion that started with a look-up at the School Focus, and that has continued in most of the daily newspapers in connection with the evaluation of Reform 94, it's because it's the first time that we've got an example that even the State Council that runs the Department of Research has had a hard time governing the urge to just override the research. Gudmund Hernes wrote in Dagbladet on 30 January this year an article in which he defends his own course of action in connection with this follow-up to Reform 94. This newspaper article is, to me, the clearest proof that the criticism addressed to the Council of State in this matter is fully justified. In fact, it confirms at all points that the Council of State has failed to recognize that he has mixed the roles in a way that is fundamentally very unfortunate. I quote from the article: ‘It may well have been so shocking if I had separated the roles — if I had said that I ‘as a professor’ sees a report not as a goal but as a ‘politician’ closes my eyes. It's doubtful whether the Storting, the media and people else would have accepted such a twin. There is neither a requirement nor a specific background to become a Council of State. However, whatever the background, a State Council must use all its competences when making decisions. I used my research experience every day — including from educational research — when research gave premise for decisions.’ For me, this is a rather disturbing finding of a lack of momentum – that a council of states that is a social scientist, and even started its career as a social researcher with a power investigation, does not see that there is a fundamental difference in the conduct of a discussion of the content and methods of research between equals, and that the sponsor who sits on the money bag and is thus in the power to give research assignments and withdraw research assignments, at the same time acts as a researcher and participant in the discussion. State Council Hernes' article of 30 January shows me that there is a rather urgent need for some limits to be set for how many hats people can perform at the same time. Education director Ivar R. Bjørndal wrote on 17 February of this year in Dagbladet, and this again highlights the lack of gait, at my discretion: ‘It happened this way’ — it happened this way — ‘that the Council of State itself was an experienced social Witness and researcher. He could demand that the research should pursue professional objectives and not least that it should be relevant, i.e. highlight specific themes. Since most researchers want to research what they themselves want and how it suits them, this has probably been an unfamiliar experience. But Hernes wanted to make sure that when millions of taxpayers were to be invested, the purpose would be to highlight important aspects of Reform 94 so that one could clarify both what is going well and what needs to be changed." What's said here is that the government council that manages money, that is. power, at the same time, shall act as the person defining the professional criteria for the research he commissions, in order to evaluate a reform which he himself has undertaken. In fact, it means that the Council of State then acts in three different roles: first it implements policies, then it acts as a sponsor in order to evaluate its own policies, and thirdly it is the one that dictates the issues to be addressed by researchers and how to answer them. It is not possible to get to a self-service shop of a political nature. It will be useful to get the current Council of State for Church, Education and Research to comment on this and to express how the Government basically views this kind of mix of roles in the relationship between political power and research. I look forward and listen with interest to the response of the Council of State Lilletun.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e511	The representative's salary addresses an important fundamental question. As a representative of big business, I, as the representative of Wohnning said, have even been busy with this, and I have been involved in making a proposal to set up an own selection that might evaluate the Norwegian research project from the perspective of opportunistic behaviour, freedom and self-esteem. This question will be addressed in a separate paper on research, which will be presented to the Stortinget in May of this year, as the representative also said. I find that it is either correct or possible to go into the details of the specific matter to which the representative on the payroll refers, until I know that very little about it. I have to stick to the issues in principle. What I can say with certainty is that after I took over the government in the department, there have been no instructions given to any researchers, but we look forward to the evaluation that comes. I believe the representative's salary, who is himself a researcher, with this interview wants a debate on something as important as how to get maximum confidence in the content of the research that has been made. Since this material on Reform 94 forms the basis of the upcoming paper on continuing training, it is important to state that the researchers themselves have clearly stated that they are responsible for the work they have done. The results published by the researchers have not been directed by the department, nor has the contractor asked the researchers to make specific conclusions. The material of researchers has been widely available to the public through the research institutes’ reporters. This was evident at the press conference that the researchers had been doing a little while ago. The government has been particularly busy with the problem of the representative's salary, and as a result, I have chosen, for my part, to give responsibility to the Research Council when it comes to the reform 97 evaluation. This means that we have provided the Research Council with information on what conditions we want to clarify, and a mission presentation, but the contact and selection of researchers and a project board is fully responsible for. Such an organisation of the research-based evaluation is chosen because an evaluation, independent of the ministry, is desirable and which can rightly or wrongly ask questions about independence. I, and this government with me, are very concerned about ethical attitudes in the field of research. We believe this is important because people's confidence in the researchers is a necessary commitment to the future of research. And what we need most of all today is free and independent research. Free research is a crucial part of the Norwegian knowledge system, and this government will be actively involved in defending freedom. But with freedom fulfills responsibility. And this responsibility includes, among other things: the ethical aspects of the research are taken seriously, by researchers themselves, by research institutions and by those who finance the research. Political overarching of mission research is therefore something I take a great distance from. When this comes up at more and more times, of course, it is because there are so many stumble threads in the road, and those who walk on this road are not always as attentive to them. Close links are easily established between the contractor and the performing party within the scope of the mission research, and this often occurs early in the process. The results of the research are closely related to the problems and the questions you focus on. Clients usually have clear ideas about what they want to get paid, and it can hire the researcher in a certain direction. There is a problem if the researcher is to be guided. Here, too, researchers must preserve their integrity and independence. Research institutions must also be careful. They should have a culture where ethical discussion is encouraged, and they should create ethical guidelines for research. Universities and colleges should ensure that research ethics is part of the education of new researchers. When it comes to contractors, between the public administrations, they have a self-evident right to define the framework for research missions, including the setting of themes. However, the contractor does not have the right to put pressure on the researcher to draw specific conclusions. This also means that the subcontractor should not affect the research process. The contracting entity also does not have the right to retain negative results that are contrary to its own interests. The keyword here must be as open a behaviour as possible centrally. With an open presentation, I think that cork content in the research or the context of subscription should be kept secret, as long as it is not entirely necessary, for example. for the protection of privacy. I would like to remind you that the Government has suggested that it be easier to see what is going on in public administration. The size has joined this with a wide multiple. Departments are major users of social research. For this reason, they need clear rules for postponing such assignments. In the discussions we have had with the other departments in connection with the research report, we have discussed this issue in particular. Several have said that clarification and some coordination can be in place. From this I want to take the initiative to create running rules for how public administration, for example. shall design research missions and the means of publicising the results. I would also like to ensure that the guidelines established by the National Research Ethics Committee on Social Sciences, Law and Humanities are spread to all those involved in some sort of mission research, not least to the ministries. A main problem that we face when it comes to ethical issues related to mission research may be that we know too little. We know too little about how and how much the funding source affects the research results. Nor do we have a good enough overview of who the clients are, how the funds are distributed and on what terms. There is a need to address this issue, and it will be done within a project under the auspices of the National Research Ethics Committees. When these questions are addressed, we will consider whether it might be appropriate to initiate other measures. I have chosen to go into this matter in principle and say something about how the Government thinks in relation to this. I look forward to this debate and the signal that I get here, and I look forward to having this discussed when we will discuss the research message later this year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e546	I thank the Council of State for a very positive response. There are, as the Council pointed out, two parties in this case. It's the research environments, and it's sponsors who can afford to buy research. As far as research environments are concerned, the work of the Council of State pointed to the need for, well in progress. As far as I'm aware, it's embedded in the organized research education at all our universities, a feature of just research ethics. And the most important issue in this context is, of course, integrity – how can one act so conscientiously and carefully on the part of the research community that there can be no suspicion that one can buy in a time when more and more of the research must be funded as a mission research? It is vital for the credibility and status of research in society that there is no doubt about the integrity of research communities and researchers. The most positive thing about the Council of State's response was that he said about initiatives to intensify to all departments the corresponding ethical rules for the conduct of the administration in this area, because there are equally high questions about the integrity of the contracting entities and about preventing the possibility of doubting exactly that integrity. I share the opinion of State Council Lilletun that it is natural and desirable for a specialist council to ensure a satisfactory distance between itself and the research environments from which he wants to order research. There should be at least an arm's length distance between them, avoiding any suspicion that the State Council is involved in designing the research project and then evaluating the same research project as he has commissioned. The experience with the case in question, which has led me to travel this interpellation, also shows that the closer a Council of States must be to be professionally involved in the research he is commissioning through – I had just said – its civil role and not its political role, the more needed it is to ensure that distance. It should then be ensured that there is twice as much distance as otherwise. I am very pleased with the response of the Council of State, and attends the cleaning work promised by the Council of State on the part of the administration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e561	I refer to the announced communication on research, which will then incorporate proposals on ethical driving rules for research, which I fully agree with, because research tends to be self-impressive in itself. Otherwise, the Council of State in its contribution avoids going into the specific matter which is the background to the fact that the representative Inge Wohnning has raised an entire interpellation here in the house. The Council of State says that after he came to the department himself everything has been fine – understood: there may have been something with someone else who was there before. I would say that if a Council of State is to use research results as a basis for subsequent decisions, any Council of State must at the same time decide on the emphasis to be placed on that research in comparison with other data that will also premise decisions. In Norway, there is, in fact, freedom of expression, so if a State Council believes that the research results or methods are too poor, then the Council of State, like all of us, must be allowed to express it. Claim No 1 from Inge Wohnning: Former State Councillor Gudmund Hernes drove with over-management of research in connection with Reform 94 – understood: he should have had arm's length distance from research. To this is to say, and it knows the Council of State Lilletun, that a follow-up group was set up under the direction of Professor Kristin Tornes, and with representatives from school, vocational training, students and departments. Consequently, it was the follow-up group that assessed the quality and relevance of the research. It was also this group that suggested that certain groups should not be allowed to renew their contract. It was just this group of Inge Wohnung asking. This should know Lilletun when he is in charge of the department he is doing. Claim No 2 from Inge Wohnung: Gudmund Hernes used couplike methods to get through reform decisions 94. That's pure spray, I must say. Reform 94 was a lengthy process. The Blegen Committee was set up in 1989 and gave its position in 1991. After that, three years went by with messages, propositions, budgets plus a very extensive work on curricula. Reform 94 was among the main features of the 1993 election campaign. The Representative for Wage assumes that none of those who followed the reform – not least the current Council of State, who put it in the committee that dealt with it, and I myself – understood some of what we were on. I had expected that the Council of State Lilletun had put this matter in place in terms of the criticism of Gudmund Hernes, precisely because he was involved in the whole process himself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e572	The President finds no expression as ‘purely sprayed’ about the speech of other representatives as special parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e575	Reform 94 was adopted by a solid majority in the Grand Duchy, but there was also scepticism on the part of the reform. The centre party has supported the reform, but many times in the last period we have called for a more flexible management of the reform, as the Stortinget stressed when the reform was adopted. I am sure that much of the criticism of the reform could have been avoided if the then department management had been somewhat more appropriate for greater flexibility in the arrangements. I do not have any evidence to join the statements made in the initial part of the interpellation. I believe that postings in newspapers and magazines are too uncertain a basis for claiming that government councils/departements have tried to influence research work carried out on behalf of the ministry. One of the statements, namely a leading article in the journal School Focus, has led to a complaint for the Press Professional Selection – Source: School Focus. I therefore abstain from further opinions on this specific issue. But on a principle basis, I would say that of course I clearly distance myself from such a possible practice. Free research is a prerequisite for legitimacy and credibility. It is very serious if the research is considered to be an order shop. Then the whole foundation of free research is powdered, while the need for more resources for research can be called into question. Against this background, today’s interpellation is important. It is also an important contribution to the control work of the Storting which should be taken seriously. Moreover, I am pleased with the clear and firm response of the Council of State to the interpellant. Although Stortinget is given ample opportunity to discuss reform 94 and its evaluation later, I would nevertheless like to take the opportunity to express some views on the part of the Centre Party. I agree with the statement that the reform was started very quickly. There was a lot of work that was not completed when the reform was started. In particular, there was training of staff, and this gave rise to some resistance to the reform. A whole new principle was introduced, namely target management of curricula and training. It was a new way of working that required a lot of teachers, students and school management. Target management requires a lot of feedback in the form of reporting to test target achievement. I therefore understand the teachers' claim about the so-called red tape of the school. In this context, I refer to the Adult Declaration, where the Government says: ‘The pace of implementation and the lack of willingness to engage in dialogue have caused great frustration among school staff and parents. A central government will restore dialogue and cooperate with stakeholders in order to ensure a good quality of teaching. It is important to avoid that evaluation and school control processes lead to increased red tape.’ Finally, I would like to stress that the most important work for teachers is to add to good learning processes where the student-teacher relationship is central. The professionalism of teachers must be respected and respected. It will create motivation for the individual teacher, who will again infect the students. I expect this, among other things, to be highlighted in the big message about reform 94.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e597	The interpellant has raised an important question and made some rather serious claims. Governments were strong and clear in some areas, but there was little clarification on the specific issues raised. And it would have been okay to get a little clearer answer just to these. With regard to the Council of State's response and the emphasis on free research, the Council of State is fully supported by the SV. But I want to say a little bit about the order role of a modern society in relation to research, because it is important, and it should be clearly followed by driving rules that are to be based on ethical principles. I'm very happy that the council says he'll do it. But you have to be a little careful so you don't depolitize the order role, in the sense that the person who orders research also orders knowledge that helps to develop society. It's a more general principle, but it doesn't matter who orders, and what's ordered by research. Then the research ordered is supposed to be independent and run by ethical driving rules, so you can't order the answer you want. But how this commissioning role in research is managed in the future becomes very important in my opinion. Now a lot of research is being ordered, which should not have been ordered. The public should have a much more active commissioning role to produce knowledge that society needs. With regard to reform 94 and its evaluation, there is probably also a bit of impatience in bringing about changes. SV feels like one of the people who was fighting for the reform and was strong at it, but, of course, also agreed to some compromises because we wanted to have the reform through, despite the fact that we knew there were some weaknesses in it. We have a great deal of impatience now to get some of the results of the research on the table, so that we can start a process of change, because there are parts of the reform that are not good enough. In particular, I think it's about students who have problems completing their skills. The second part of it is whether one has managed to find a system of cooperation with industry and vocational training that is good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e606	As the Council of State stressed, the interpellant addresses an important and fundamental question, which I believe does not just need to focus on the possible overactivity of a former research minister towards the work of researchers. It is clear that the Lilletun Council has taken this issue seriously, including: by adding the mission responsibility for the research work related to the evaluation of Reform 97 to the Research Council. It is very important that there is no doubt that research – whether on behalf of the public or private – is unhealthy and high quality. It is positive that the Council of State and the Government as a whole take this issue seriously. In particular, because the departments are both sponsors and for some research institutions owners, it is important that there are neat conditions around the assignments being given. Research institutes have become increasingly dependent on assignments. This is in itself a development that may seem unfortunate in terms of the general perception of the credibility of research – and I stress perception. There is no reason to believe that Norwegian researchers are able to ‘buy’ or press for results. However, in order to underpin the independence of research, it is important that the institutions themselves are independent. One element to ensure this is good and stable framework conditions for institutes and researchers. The government did something about this in its budget for the year, including: by strengthening the basic allocation of regional research institutes and by increasing the share of basic research in the research budget. I would like to stress that it is important to continue this development, and I expect that this too is something the Government will come back to in the big news about research that will come in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e625	I am pleased that the representative on the pay side has raised this issue, because it turns out clearly in the debate this evening that this is a timely and important issue. It was said here that you have to define the issues. Then it would be natural to think that the issues that the individual order considers to be a problem or a field that you want to clarify will be addressed, while other fields may be put a little in the shadow. In addition, let's think about it. 60 different research institutes in this country. The vast majority of them are freed and only get their basic economy covered from this house via the Research Council, while the others are fully funded by one department or several departments jointly. It's not always easy to see what these are doing, how free they are, and how basic they are. It should also be fun to figure out. Now we've read the page up and down in the Reform 94 papers. What we've read has not been as pleasant all along. But what we might hope to get out of this is that Reform 97 is not being evaluated on the basis of an overall desire to preserve the 'acquis' as the only right and prevailing in this country. For the Council of State said that the Research Council has received an order from the Department, and the Research Council is responsible for the management and selection of the individual researcher. It sounds a little lenient. But can the Research Council also, in order to draw the department, to some extent choose the researcher who is at least controversial?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e636	I have not raised an interpellation on Reform 94, and as I see it, most of the representative's Knudsen posts were an intervention in a completely different debate than the interpellation is about. What she polemed against, was probably, if I understood it correctly, a formulation that fell into a newspaper interview for a while back, but that has nothing to do with my interpellation and the debate here in the room today. That matter is not Reform 94. It is also not the Hernes State Council's management of follow-up research in the context of Reform 94, but it is an illustration of a general problem of public commissioned research. At this point, I quoted Gudmund Hernes himself in the January 30th issue of this year, as a clear illustration of the fact that the minister of church, education and research at that time did not actually want to separate the role of professor and the role of the Council of State, but on the contrary considers it exemplary that he merged the two roles and acted in both qualities at the same time. It is precisely what is disturbing to me, that such an intelligent person is unable to see the danger of such a merger of two completely different roles: the role of political power and the role of researcher. Then there's reason to think that there might be quite a number of people who are unable to see the difference. That is precisely why I am pleased that the Council of State answered so clearly that he sees the need to have a clear distance between the political authority and the research communities, and I particularly appreciated the fact that the Council of State said clearly and clearly that he would make a work effort to inculcate this in the internal culture of all departments in view of the future. Therefore, I am pleased to note that, with the exception of the chairman of the church, education and research committee, all participants in the interpellation debate have been 100 pst. agree with the views expressed by the Council of State in its first reply. That is why it is also with a number of expectations that I meet with the Research Communication, which we are given the opportunity to debate in this Chamber. I assume that the Council of State can confirm that the results of the work he initiates will be able to study in the Research Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e646	I am pleased that the interpellant felt that he got a response, and that there are so many who have ended up with the principles that I tried to express. I must say that I am somewhat surprised at the contribution of the leader of the church, education and research committee, because I totally avoided making any criticism of my predecessor Gudmund Hernes, who is the source of the interpellation as an example, and to whom the debate has now turned. I have no reason to say that he has intervened in this process. But it would also have been totally irresponsible for me as a minister, who has not followed the ministry's internal life in the period when Gudmund Hernes was a minister, to say that nothing could have been outside in meetings, etc. which could be seen as the debate has shown. It is also my response to the representative, Karin Andersen, that I thought it would be irresponsible for me to try to clarify some of those claims, because I have no basis for that. So I repeat: I have no reason to say that there is anything in that criticism, but of course I have no reason to say that there is nothing in it. It is in the nature of things – then I must have known the inner life of the department better. When it concerns the process of reform 94, I acknowledge the part I have been in. I will come back to that in relation to the staging message – of course I will. So to the question from the representative Evje – can we trust the Research Council? Nothing is perfect. But when one has such a system as we have, where there is someone who has a superior responsibility for Norwegian research, and they have their territory management – and the nerve, the quality assurance of all research, is also that one is independent – I have to say that at least it will be quite supervisory if we cannot rely on the expertise of those who give the assignment and look down the governing body for this follow-up research. I can also confirm that this will be described in a thorough manner in the Storing Message, without saying that we are done with all the processes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e660	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e674	The children are the parents' responsibility. There can be no doubt about it. But at the same time, it is society's responsibility to facilitate the situation so that parents can carry out this task in the best possible way. The need for kindergartens in Norwegian society came first after women entered the educational institutions and the labour market. But I think there is reason to stress that today's kindergarten is something far more than a state storage box when the parents are working. I would argue that today's kindergarten is built up around the children's needs for development, care, security and social learning. An important part of socialisation is happening in kindergartens. And socialization is growing into a social system. As stated in the framework plan for kindergartens: ‘Children’s culture has a intrinsic value that provides children with a background of experience, reference frameworks and their own identity as a basis for meeting a larger world. Therefore, kindergarten should also provide space for the forms of expression of child culture as a valuable contribution to the cultural dissemination of adults.’» The care of children has two reasons; a justification for care and a justification for development. I believe that, as politicians, we must also be aware of the values and professional qualities that are currently in kindergarten. I believe it is important that children are confirmed, developed and strengthened their psychological and sociological identity. It turns out that children in kindergarten often get a positive identity development with the experience they get from the social field in kindergartens. We are becoming increasingly aware of the importance of the first year of life of children for the later development of life. And we need to get a sense of the value of the development of social capacity and the development of language and communication skills. The kindergarten should be a soft area for learning, but at the same time it is important that children's leisure culture becomes an integral and important part of today's kindergartens. The challenge for kindergartens must be to strike a balance between the leisure culture of children and the culture of kindergarten. The kindergarten must be open to children's interests in leisure and leave them a natural part of the day-to-day in kindergartens. It is important that pre-school teachers identify the child’s assumptions and that content planning is carried out as closely as possible in cooperation with parents. This will be important for an interaction between the child’s growing-up environment and the content of the nursery. I think there is reason to draw attention to the importance of kindergarten for children with special needs. Kindergartens are an important aid in the work of child protection services with vulnerable children and their families. The kindergarten has the opportunity to detect care failures and to put in place measures. A place in a kindergarten is one of the measures specifically mentioned in the Child Protection Act. We have to make kindergarten something of course, and make it attractive also for those families where the ability or willingness to pay is low. Joint organisation of child-care and action to strengthen joint responsibility between mothers and fathers will be measures that move in the right direction for the vulnerable families. What characterises the single mothers with child protection is often a lack of efforts by men, lack of income and social isolation. We know that kindergartens also have an important role to play in our new countrymen. The view of kindergarten as a clean place of storage or supervision must cease. And I want to challenge the Minister of Children and Family in this field. What is the Government's view of kindergarten? In the government’s opinion, what are the values of kindergarten? Does it matter whether you use a kindergarten space versus a private day-old mother? The Labour Party believes that there are many reasons to invest in Community solutions for child care. I believe that kindergarten can also have a meaning for adults – who research Agnes Andenæs says it: as a water station in modern society – a place where you can share experience and get good advice. The kindergarten can, in a sense, be time-distinguishing for parents who could otherwise be at risk of working even more than the normal working day. With intern and private solutions, we know that we can pay for the afternoons with overtime, but everyone knows that the nursery we have to reach before it closes. I have to say, I'm seriously worried. I'm concerned that thousands of kindergartens will be closed in 1999. I'm sorry to have to say that, Councillor, but we've got a reversal in kindergarten policy here in the country after the central government took over. The goal of full child care coverage by 2000 is set to fall. We are far behind the timetable with the Government's arrangements. If we look at the situation of the largest municipality in the country, it is also very serious. 4 200 children are in line for a kindergarten. At the same time, we know that 76 million. kr is unused for investments in kindergartens. And city councillor Lae says that it is just the cash support that is the reason why the Right Town Council does not want to build more kindergartens in Oslo now. That's why I want to ask what the Minister for Children and Family can do with this situation. The signals from several municipalities in the country are very dramatic. With the government's policy – I'm sorry to have to say it – I feel that the children and the parents are becoming losers. We know that the freedom of choice has been the main slogan of the Government. We know that the cash support has now been legalised. Will the Government now also legislate the right to a nursery place? And how does the Council of State assess a municipal development obligation? We know what the Council of State has said in this Chamber about it earlier, and now we see the consequence for kindergarten development here in the country. I would like to stress that the Workers' Party is not talking about a compulsory kindergarten. We talk about a kindergarten for those who want it – with flexible solutions at an affordable price. And when this is done, we have to look at the possibility of getting to a free kernel time. The working party's policy towards the families of young children is to encourage professional relations also during the early childhood period. At the same time, however, we must take seriously what the time bracket of the families of young children feels. Through the Time Account Scheme, we have opened up the possibility to vary the professional relationship according to the needs of the families, without the parents losing their rights in the labour market. We want to make it possible to choose more time for child care for those who want it, while keeping their job. That's what we want to achieve by making the maternity leave more flexible. A combination of time-accounting and maternity leave will give families a real choice. The choice will not be either-or, but both-and-and. We need to help families to choose a shorter working time for a period of time. The only real thing must be that we're completing kindergarten development as soon as possible here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e719	The representative, Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, asks in his interview what measures I intend to take to ensure that all children who have a need, or who want to do so, are offered a childcare space by the year 2000, and whether I have looked at measures to stimulate the municipalities to a common promise to achieve the goal. I have previously announced that the Government will present a big message in June this year on kindergartens where one will come up with proposals for measures that are necessary to achieve the goal of full childcare coverage. In this message we shall also present the future legal, economic and professional framework conditions in the sector. That is why I will not answer the questions that the interpellant raised in his article. That's what I'll come back to when the message is sent. The government is also closely monitoring the situation of kindergartens. Of course, in the draft budget for the year 2000, we will also look at how we will achieve the target. A majority in the Grand Duchy had the same commitment to managing the 1999 budget. It is not possible to give concrete answers today to the questions that the interpellation raises, but as I said before, we will come back to it when the message is finished. However, it may be useful to take a look at the challenges in the kindergarten sector. There will be a signal I can use in the further work on the staging message, and I hope I get it through posts in the hall today. Let me briefly sum up the situation in the nursery sector and outline some of the current challenges that we are dealing with. There have been barely two months since the Storting managed the Government's contribution to the 1999 budget. A number confirmed the goal of full childcare coverage in 2000. This means that there will be a need for new kindergartens up to and including the autumn 2000 recording. The government has selected a conservative estimate for 1999, 2500 new places, divided by 1000 places for children over three years and 1500 for those under three years. I would like to remind you that there was a broad agreement in Stortinget about this target language. The background is the uncertain municipality has about the need for nursery places after the introduction of the cash support. At the same time, the cows in the municipalities notice that a year old, 6-year-olds, are now away from the kindergarten. Several municipalities also report that they are in the process of reaching the target of full needs coverage. A majority agreed with this assessment, but asked that the government follow closely the situation in the nursery sector. Of course we will. The need for kindergartens will vary from municipality to municipality. Many municipalities have good coverage, especially for children over three years of age. Others still lack spaces for all age groups. On a national basis, 60 pst. of all children aged 1 to 5 years, place in 1997. It is a major challenge for municipalities to identify the real need for places built on their own research. I have encouraged the municipalities to carry out such needs and user studies. This has been facilitated by developing a guide for such studies. In national context, we still need many places, not least for the smallest children. About 30 pst. of the 1-year-olds and 50 pst. of the 2 year-olds had their place in kindergarten in 1997. The introduction of cash support may reduce the need for childcare facilities for these smallest children. By increasing the fees in the year's budget, the graduation for partial cash support and the propensity for kindergartens are adapted to each other from 1 August 1999. I hope this will lead to increased flexibility for parents who want to combine space in kindergarten with partial cash support. Increased demand for part-time places will also affect the total need for places, i.e. reducing queues. Childcare needs will vary from municipality to municipality and may change over time in the same municipality. The requested location will be used, among other things. relate to the professional activities of parents with small children, the labour market, the facilities for kindergarten provision, the price of nursery facilities, the quality of supply and alternative care solutions. Local authorities therefore need to consider changing needs in the planning and operation of childcare facilities. Local variations may make it less likely to have clear national standards for full child-care coverage. We have so far used a percentage to express it collecting the need for places in national contexts. It is necessary to calculate the total costs of the country. For municipalities it can easily be wrong to build on national norms. For some municipalities, such a norm will not give enough space, and for others, it will give too many places. The need for new places will lead to increased costs for the state and municipality. It will cost to reach the goal of kindergarten for everyone who wants it. The government is working on these questions, and it will present proposals in the main message and also in the annual budgets. I would also like to mention that the introduction of cash support means that the State is involved in financing care solutions for all 1- and 2-year-olds. In the budget, the appropriations for operating expenditure for kindergartens are seen in conjunction with the proceeds of cash support. Another key challenge is to ensure greater economic equality between municipal and private kindergartens, where these are part of the overall childcare provision in the municipality, and where the tasks and duties are the same. There are differences between municipal and private kindergartens in many municipalities, but there is also a great difference between private kindergartens. We need to find schemes that can ensure private kindergartens realistic conditions for operation and good cooperation with the municipality. At the same time, we also need to consider the faithful community to plan a comprehensive supply based on real needs. These questions will be central to the main issue of kindergartens. There is no reason to say that the construction of kindergartens has stopped. There are no final figures for 1998, but figures are currently showing that there were 5 000-6 000 places created. I would also like to remind you that, when it comes to child care, the Bondevik government actually included in the 1998 budget on the basis of the Labour Party Government's budget proposal – we put in the same proposals. However, it is clear – despite the efforts – that we did not reach the goal of 13,500 new places. There may be many reasons why fewer kindergartens were built in 1998. I'll name some of them. Many have already achieved the goal of full needs coverage. More places were built in 1997 than the target figure, and there was a need to see if the introduction of cash support reduced the need for babysitting places for the smallest children. However, with 5,000 to 6,000 new places, it is wrong to say that the expansion has stopped. We have a common challenge in assessing what measures are needed to speed up the development of unachieved municipalities and at the same time to ensure that existing sites are maintained. I mentioned in the introduction that I cannot give more specific answers to the questions asked by the representative Bekkelem Orheim. This will be done when the message is ahead of me. I still want to listen to the signals that come here today, and I want to include them in the further work on the message. I also want to add that the representative, Bekkelem Orheim in his introduction, said some about the value of kindergartens for children, and I can fully agree with the formulations that Bekkelem Orheim used in relation to the value of a good childcare facility for our children.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e768	I would like to begin by saying that I am pleased that the Council of State emphasises the same values in the content of kindergartens as the Workers' Party does. The council says that we will be presented with a kindergarten message in June. That means that the Storting's treatment of this major case will not take place until next year. In her reply to me, the Council of State says that she cannot provide specific information on the content of the message. But the situation of the country's kindergartens has become dramatic since the Bondevik government took over power. That is why I believe that the Minister for Children and Family now needs to address the problems she sees in Barnehage-Norway, and do not push the issue ahead of a kindergarten message will come during the summer. Yes, I would say it so strongly that the government simply does not do its job if it does not now wake up and address this problem. In the last few days, we have become familiar with the change that has taken place through the redeployment of the grant scheme for kindergartens. First, I would like to say that I am sorry that the Workers' Party was not aware of those changes when we dealt with the state budget last autumn. This is something we will come back to in the revised budget, because these changes mean that kindergartens get less to do. This means that all children in kindergartens receive less government operating grants. Once again, it means that parents get an even higher price in their nursery. I want to ask the council if she doesn't think there's a limit to how much it should be acceptable to charge for a nursery. We have been based in Norway on getting full kindergarten development by the year 2000, with the help of the private kindergartens in this country. They stand for 45 pst. of the total nursery provision we can give. But it can't be that the private kindergartens are just an offer for the most resourceful parents, who can afford to pay for very expensive kindergarten solutions. Then we can't give the freedom of choice that parents are going to have. Yes, the Council of State also says in its statement that there is broad support for the 1999 target, but it is true that if she is based on the view of the Progress Party in kindergarten policy. I have to confirm again that there is a defensive bet with only 2,500 places in 1999. With this we can really state that we don't believe the government wants us to have a full kindergarten expansion here in the country. There is no reason to believe that kindergarten expansion is stopping, says the Council of State. But what is the situation in Barnehage-Norway now is that we get weekly, yes daily reports that the situation in Barnehage-Norway is dramatic. Kindergartens are being demolished. I am seriously concerned about what this degradation of Barnehage-Norway will mean. If the trade union starts to get away from the kindergartens, we're going to have a massive decline. I think it will take a long time for us to build up a sound and good educational offer again. Therefore, the Minister for Children and Family now needs to respond specifically to what she intends to do with the situation — where the municipalities of the country are sitting quietly and do not make development plans that they have previously adopted, due to the introduction of the cash support scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e781	I'll try to address some of the issues that Bekkemelm Orheim raised. First of all, I would like to say that we are getting daily reports that the situation in kindergarten is difficult: I think that those who have the best information about the situation in Barnehage-Noreg are probably in the department. We follow this closely in relation to the signals we get. But I'm also aware that the antidotes are big. These include: many people who work in kindergartens – who also want to reach out with their positions – who are against the full amount of cash. They use it as an excuse, among other things. for not having children’s home provision is good enough. I feel that the cash support in several municipalities is used as a basis for e.g. discontinuance of kindergartens. If we discuss the specific issues, we often find that none of these children should have received cash support. It doesn't really have anything to do with cash support. What I admit is that the paycheck we had last year is a big problem for a lot of kindergartens. It's a big problem for the private kindergartens, because the municipalities don't follow up on what we said in Stortingen in relation to the payment when it comes to kindergarten. As the representative is aware, Stortinget has said that the state has to pay 40 pst., the municipalities 30 pst. and parents 30 pst. When it applies to the state's 40 pst, at least we're not far away. But when it comes to the municipalities' 30 pst, it's very bad, especially for the private kindergartens. There are considerable differences between municipalities, but it is obvious that if the private kindergartens had received the municipal allowance they would have had in relation to the 30 percent, they would not have had the problems they have today. Is it, then, cash support that they have to be laid down? By the way, I thought we were going to discuss kindergartens today and not cash support, but it is taken up, so I am forced to mention it. But since we have kindergarten queues, it can't be cash support debt. The only cash support that can result from the provision of babysitting facilities is that the queues become smaller because there are more than one alternative solution. There are several parents who want to spend time with their children, and there are several parents who choose alternative solutions for the smallest children. We in the department follow the situation very closely, and of course we will do and propose what is needed in relation to the budgets that we have ahead of us. I am interested in a good babysitting service for the children. It's also the Government's goal, and I hope that the representative trusts that when we present the Storing Message, we will address these issues. But I hope it's not right, as the representative says, that it won't be handled until next year. I very much hope that you will handle that crash message to your home folder.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e794	I have often considered whether it has ever suggested to the council that she can actually spread negative attitudes about women, children and kindergarten through her commitment to cash support and a similar lack of bet in the kindergarten sector. Sometimes I actually see a hidden index finger that gives people a sense that children are actually suffering because their mothers choose to be active. I'm afraid this is not only about the Christian People's Party's somewhat old-fashioned, outdated attitude towards women's professional participation, but also about an attitude that reduces kindergartens to a place of residence for children where they supervise while their parents are at work. After the opinion of the Council of State, as I have seen it through the media and through the proposals for appropriations in the budget for kindergartens, this supervision can in fact be carried out equally by random day-mothers or a young intern. In 1970, 2 pst went. by children in kindergarten. We were then actually quite a few women who activated us in municipal policy to build kindergartens. What scares me is that it's taken an incredibly short time to bring the kindergarten expansion back to the level it was at in the 1980s. And that is the responsibility of this government. First amanunensis Ivar Born at the University points out that politicians’ views on kindergartens are linked to the lack of kindergartens in their own childhood. It is well known that the Ministry of Kindergarten has used kindergarten to a small extent for its own children. If she's gone to kindergarten herself, I don't know. But I think we would get another answer to what kindergartens were worth if we asked, among other things. Swedish youths had experienced what they had experienced in kindergarten — as was done in an interview. They remembered good friends and play, they remembered adults who had time, and they got a lot of positive attention. We know a lot of the kindergarten's advantage, and we're still getting proof of it through research. It should be said that the nursery minister not only recommends kindergartens in the warmest, but also does something about them in the budgets. The council said in its statement that she followed the situation carefully, and that it was not the cash support that was responsible for us getting so few babysitting places in 1998 and that we might also get in 1999. But it was actually the employees' wages that were due – the wages that the government itself has negotiated. I believe that the Minister for Children and Family will soon have to take responsibility for kindergarten development and take on his own shoulders what this government is doing with kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e807	I agree with the inter-pellant that safe and good childcare arrangements for children are important at the time when parents are involved in working life. However, it should not be that kindergarten development is an important and essential objective in itself, and that full coverage means kindergarten space for all children under school age and is not a means to meet the needs of children’s parents and children. The point must be to organise a family policy in which parents' choices are extended to include natural diversity adapted to each individual. This is best done by accepting and accepting several alternative approaches to childcare. I would like to stress that the Norwegian welfare state has largely undertaken the family's traditional tasks, thereby weakening the family's importance in society. This development will strongly warn the Progress Party against, and in particular warn against the transfer of the family's mission to the public. Today's society has evolved, in my view, it has been increasingly influenced by the so-called institutional society, where children are usually kept in the hands of mother municipalities and father state from two to three years of age until they reach 18 to 19 years of age. Packing the children into a so-called A4 format will, in my view, be the safest way to inhibit the children in a natural and creative development. It must also be remembered that it is the parents who know the needs of their children and want the best, not the public. Therefore, it should also be for parents to decide what is the best child passport scheme for their children, and not for the state and politicians, by specialising in individual offers rather than others. I must honestly admit that I am a little disappointed when some parties point out that public kindergartens are the only right pedagogical and developmental childcare system. The Progress Party considers that it is not a public task to hold child care, but that it should be exercised as far as possible by the private person. The role of politicians, as mentioned earlier, should be to facilitate a wide-ranging and genuine choice of parents, without politicians condemning one solution rather than the other through laws, rules, regulations and other special arrangements. I think it's a little interesting, when the Workers' Party is drawing up the situation in Sweden and pointing out that young people there thought it was positive that adults had time and opportunity to deal with them, while they don't think it's important to give biological parents the same opportunities here at home, by going against cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e828	When I hear the post of the representative Grethe Fossum, I almost wonder if there's anything wrong with the sound here in the staging room, for the representative Fossum will obviously not be right after what the Minister for Children and Family says. Gong is coming to the Labour Party and says that the Christian People's Party has an old-fashioned attitude towards family policy – to women, children and kindergarten, we have an old-fashioned attitude. I don't know how many times we have said from this pulpit that we don't have it, but it's clearly best for the Labour Party to try to imagine ourselves as if we have it. Grethe Fossum said that behind the Minister for Children and Family, she sees a hidden index finger. Does the Labour Party have a hidden index finger if they want to double the paid maternity leave? This will lead to a lot of people staying home longer. I think it's a rather unlikely measure that comes from the Labour Party when it comes to family policy. It has been received very positively by many in relation to cash support, and we have an offensive stance in child care policy. The representative, Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, highlights the importance that everyone who wants to do so will have a babysitting facility in 2000. We have been busy having safe and good kindergartens for a long time. We have, together with others. The Labour Party, our agreement on the objective of full needs coverage in the year 2000. Some municipalities have already achieved the goal of full needs coverage, while others still have a great job to do. There is a great chance that the cash support reduces the need for nursery places, for some people want to stay home with their children longer, and some want part-time space. This gives you just the opportunity to be both active and at home, as the representative of Karita Bekkedmelm Orheim pointed out. But it is very important that we continue to develop new kindergartens where demand is greater than access. The working party is still trying to represent it as if we're not engaged in achieving the goal of full child-care coverage. Now I hope for once they can right what we say, so they get it, so we don't have to answer the same claims multiple times from the pulpit. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to remind the Labour Party that when they joined the government, the Christian People's Party actually suggested that more bets bets bets bets in the kindergarten sector than the Labour Party. Several times the Christian People's Party proposed more money to the kindergartens, but the Labour Party voted against. Once, in 1996, we actually got together with the Center Party, Right and SV plurals to allow more money for the kindergarten sector. But after all, they've forgotten, or at least they've been pushed, when they're in opposition. The private kindergartens are responsible for many of the new kindergartens we have recently received, and it is important that we take seriously the challenges facing private kindergartens. As the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, the Government will deliver a big message. We are pleased that the Government is working offensively when it comes to kindergarten policy, because we think it is important to have a good childcare provision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e847	The development of child-care coverage is a very interesting debate. Over the course of several years, the size has determined that there will be full childcare coverage in 2000. The working party criticises that their plans for kindergarten expansion have not been followed up. Of course, what the Workers' Party had not included in its plans was the effect of the cash support. It goes without saying that when cash support is now a fact, the need for new nursery places for the youngest children is reduced. What this means for the need for kindergarten places, it's still too early to say anything exactly about it. But when said, it is important for the Right to stress that the kindergartens in this slightly uncertain period must have good framework conditions. We are concerned about the development of the economy of private kindergartens in particular. The last element of uncertainty that has been created, I have mentioned earlier and asked the Council of State about it in the spontaneous Question Time. It was not easy to give an answer at the time, and the question was perhaps not so well formulated either, but the main point is that the calculations regarding which children qualify for too high and too low a grant in kindergarten are changed on 1 August 1999. This is apparently referred to as a table in the State budget. There's nothing there about the economic impact on the kindergartens of this conversion. I would like to ask the Council of State today, as she was unable to answer in the spontaneous Question Time: What economic impact does this have on kindergartens, what is the Council of State's assessment of the consequences, especially for private kindergartens, and what action will the Council of State take if it turns out that this has negative consequences? The government has announced that they will be bringing the kindergarten message in June. I am very concerned that we are going to deal with it as soon as possible, precisely because we now see that there is a severe negative discrimination against private kindergartens. For the right, it is a prerequisite that the conditions for private and public kindergartens become almost the same. The most important thing for us is that the children get a kindergarten, not if they get it in a private or in a public kindergarten. I hope that the Government will also assess some form of price financing, as far as we have today in terms of grants to kindergartens. But unlike the system we have today, we want a system where you see the total costs in context, and I hope that one gets this in the new message. If we are to achieve the goal of full coverage next year, we must not risk the disappearance of a number of private kindergartens this year, in 1999. The Council of State may say something about the development of private kindergartens in the last year, for example: how many kindergartens have been closed down and how has development been in terms of number of kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e860	I think it is nice that the interpellant takes up this theme. The center part is concerned that we will have enough kindergartens for everyone who wants to do so, and similar to the goal of full kindergarten coverage by the year 2000. There will therefore be a need for new kindergartens up to and including the autumn 2000 recording. Some of this is what we are talking about in the context of the budget, but a lot is happening in this sector, and it is important to follow suit. I was involved in and supported the introduction of cash support, but it has always been a condition that it should be a real choice for parents, either cash support or nursery. Then you'll need enough nursery places. Of course, the need for new kindergartens will vary from municipality to municipality. Some municipalities have good coverage, especially for children over three years of age. Other missing space for all age groups. It goes without saying that it's a big challenge for municipalities to come up with the real need. I myself have had thoughts for the district children and their care. I am aware that some of them have had to cancel, or have not started, perhaps as a result of the introduction of the cash support. At least there have been a couple of my neighbouring municipalities on Jären. This may be good enough for those who benefit from the cash support, but those who had not thought of it, and for many reasons would like to have their child in kindergarten, will then have no real choice anymore. I therefore expect that the evaluation work on cash support places a lot of emphasis on these pages, and also that measures will be taken to prevent closure. I agree with the Council of State that local variations may make it less likely to have national standards for full child-care coverage. Our country is so diverse when it comes to age, spread construction, type of jobs and population concentration, that too many municipalities would be wrong to build on national standards. We also need the private kindergartens, which have so far covered a lot of the supply for the small ones under the age of three. Withdrawals of this type will also be able to contribute to the absence of a real choice for parents. That's why it's so important to watch out. That is why we all need to do our utmost to put in place the right measures to speed up unachieved municipalities, and at the same time to ensure that existing sites are maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e875	I share the view of the Labour Party that the situation in the kindergarten sector has evolved to be dramatic – both in terms of the closure of places, that there is not enough space being built up and not least the growing parental payment. I've read, and I believe that in Hedmark, the parental payment for municipal spaces has increased by 7 pst. And that's pretty dramatic. There are two things that weaken parents' choice of child care, and there is a shortage of kindergartens and expensive kindergartens. With strong growth in parental pay, freedom of choice does not become very great for young children’s parents. We have repeatedly said that the cash support scheme makes the nursery facilities more expensive than any other supervision system, and it prevents the government from putting its whole heart into full kindergarten development. And evolution shows that we've got it right. But in addition, there is one element that is important to develop and that only SV has taken seriously, and that is the importance of the weakened municipal economy. Both the poor municipal economy and the cash support stand in the way of more and cheaper kindergartens. I am very pleased that the interpellant has addressed this question, and it is great that the Workers' Party is engaged in increased kindergarten development. The working party will receive full support from SV in it, but the commitment will only be fully credible on the day the Workers' Party joins in order to improve the municipal economy. And the next milestone for it is the revised national budget. For us, kindergartens are an important prerequisite for women's participation in employment and for gender equality. But kindergarten is important for children, and this nursery we want to strengthen. Children have a good time in kindergarten, and those who receive this offer are often better rusted when they start school than children who have not been admitted to kindergarten. Children's playgrounds for all those who want them are therefore important to prevent differences in society. The childcare community shall be accessible to all and shall not be hindered by the poor economy of the parents. Therefore, SV will later propose free core time of four hours and maximum parental payment at the level of Finland, on the way to free kindergarten for all children. And then we want to legislate the right to babysitting. There I heard positive signals from the Workers' Party, and I am very pleased about that. Should the right to kindergarten for all children who want it be real, we need to improve the local economy, and we need to increase the state subsidy in order to get more and cheaper kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e889	It is reassuring to confirm that the Minister for Child and Family Affairs is working to achieve the goal of full child-care coverage by the year 2000. There must never be any doubt that this government is working to provide children and parents with a better childcare facility than what is offered today, because some workers’ party representatives obviously have problems understanding that there are two thoughts in their head at once – both kindergartens and increased parental freedom through cash support. As others have noted, kindergartens are important for the development of children. There's no disagreement about that. After the 6-year reform is completed, more and more parents are dedicated to establishing good friendships and social relations for their children before they leave the home for school – the youngest from the age of five and a half. Parents are concerned that children should not fall outside the learning environment at school. It is our duty to facilitate that parents and children get the offer they are asking for. But this is about more than the number of places. I am very pleased that the Council of State will present a big message that will address the legal, economic and professional framework conditions for kindergartens. In this way, Stortinget will have an opportunity to go into the issues more thoroughly than just counting the number of nursery places. The left is particularly concerned with the need for childcare services to meet the real needs of parents and children and to a greater extent than has so far been the case with the Labour Party's policies, we want the childcare provision to be more flexible and varied. Parents and children are different and have different needs. For many children, some time in kindergarten with pedagogical arrangements and association with other children will be the right thing to do. Others need a full-time offer. The state framework conditions for kindergartens must reflect this varied landscape. Finally, I would like to point out a group of parents who, in the case of kindergarten, are treated specifically, namely the students. It may seem a bit funny that the lowest rate for student parents living on loans and scholarships is at the base of NOK 1 116, while the lowest rate in municipal kindergartens in Oslo is NOK 683. I would like one by a review of kindergarten policy to address these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e906	That's about. One year back to the year 2000, and it is obvious that we have a problem. The Council of State responsible for ensuring full child-care must move inwards. We have promised that all those who want to do so will be accommodated in kindergarten from the year 2000, and now we are writing in 1999. The Workers' Party has had a clear set-up for this since we started the huge expansion of kindergartens, but the small children's parents are now experiencing a severe setback with the central government's proposal for further development. It has to happen almost miracles the next year in order for us to be able to get to the goal. In this context, it is also important to focus on the staffing of kindergartens. We have standards for how it should happen, and we are not yet in the goal of the kindergartens we already have. At the same time, we are now receiving reports that traditional people's workplaces will experience a decline in the future, among others. as a result of the Government's policy. It is a problem in itself, but at the same time a challenge for the Minister of Children to seize the opportunity to do something about one of the major problems that the kindergartens face today. It's almost impossible to get men into kindergartens. A few years ago, the Workers' Party launched a proposal to open up kindergartens to new professions, primarily to ensure better provision for children. Then the proposal was met with ridicule, but I think most people today realize the need for new interventions to get men into kindergartens. That is what the children need, and I think that will also enrich the working environment in kindergartens. It's often focused on pay in this discussion, but I think the problem is more complex than that. There is little help in providing better pay if men are not allowed to bring their experience background into the environment. This applies both to the working environment and to the offer given to children. Therefore, this is not a problem that can be solved only by political decisions, but something an entire industry must be able to focus on if we are to target. I think the children deserve so much that we do that job. Moreover, I have to point out that only women will find themselves downgrading men to monetary Greek struts who are only concerned with profit, and nothing else, in a working relationship. It's probably an example of how important it is to get more men into kindergartens. I have recorded that there is an increased focus on this, not least in the nursery settings, but I still miss a stronger commitment from the government offices here. I also think it is important to remember that kindergartens were never meant to be clean storage places for the children. Therefore, it is important in the future to focus discussions on both flexibility and operating modes. This should be an offer that takes children's needs seriously, including those needs that are not met well enough through the way we have organized our society. But the most important thing in this debate is that the Workers' Party has a scheme that would have secured us full child care next year. Governments can only rely on their belief in miracles to achieve this. The plan is still missing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e925	After the debate tonight, there may seem to be broad consensus and excitement about an offensive bet on the kindergartens, but in reality, after the agreement between the Government and the right parties, the opposite is happening. Then I'll tell the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad that it's easy to say that the center parties can't compete with themselves when they get in position. It's easy to be the best in the class when you have $4 billion more to spend, but we all know the reality that the center parties met when they experienced how the economic laws work for them as well. We have heard the Council say that the impact on kindergartens of introducing the cash support is equal to zero. I just have to say that it's going to be very exciting to follow this development further, and we'll see if the evaluation gives the same answer. I have also noticed that the centre party and Unn Aarrestad are clearly of a slightly different opinion in this matter. Cash support means something far more than what can be included in party political victories and losses. In Norway, even though we compare ourselves with many other countries, most children are doing very well. The reason for the cash support was that it was unfair for some adults to receive a financial subsidy from kindergarten subsidies, while others did not receive it – so the adults who did not have children in kindergarten could receive cash support instead. With our constant need for cash, it was no surprise that a lot of people agreed to this gold-edge arrangement. I want to say that society affects children's lives and growth. We all know parental responsibility is great, but what society offers of attitudes, activities and services will greatly affect children and young people. I would like to stress that the Workers' Party believes in a society where there are little differences between people, and where we are all equivalent. And maybe as politicians, we should be quality-proofing our decisions, so that we were sure it was good for our children. This would, in turn, provide a certainty that social development would be good over time. I will close this interpellation debate by saying that Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik said in the VG on July 6th this year that the cash support would not go beyond anything. ‘This is a hesitant issue’, he said – and further said, ‘No one is being misjudged because of the cash support’. I believe that many of the country's young children's parents today will agree with me when they feel that there are fewer kindergartens, that kindergartens are becoming far more expensive and that the school leisure system is becoming more expensive. I regret to say at the end that the Government and the central parties base their support in family policy on the support of the Progress Party, which believes that kindergartens are only an institutional measure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e940	I would like to use it to say that we accept someone from the Progress Party when the matter is reported. I can only mention the debate they've had in this house before today. I am required to give a complete introduction to the matter. I must honestly admit that the level of Grethe Fossum let itself be put on in its post, shocked me. I have not ever witnessed such an attack on me as a person. First of all, I would just like to inform you: in relation to this debate, I didn't think it had anything to do with whether I had gone to kindergarten or whether my children had gone to kindergarten. But to reassure the representative – I do not want to ask her the same questions, because I am not interested in knowing that – I can say that my children have actually gone to kindergarten for many years. One of them started when he was three, and the other started a little later, they started in the park when they were two years old – so that's what they said, so I didn't meet those claims from the representative Fossum several times. She's used it quite many times against me. When it comes to an old-fashioned parenting and that the mothers are not going out to work, I can tell you that I have been out of work all my time, had my leave and returned to work. But I didn't think that had anything to do with this debate either. They are probably noticing to me that the way in which the debate was conducted on the part of the representative, Mr Fossum, is upsetting me. So this also became a cash support debate and not a debate on tomorrow's kindergarten. I'm disappointed in that. I had hoped that the representatives from the Workers' Party would have made representations – it came in some of the other posts here – but the Labour Party was not concerned with being constructive in relation to the kindergarten message we are going to present. I'll take note of that. So I'm going to try to answer some of the questions from the representative of Greece. The representative first asked about developments in the nursery sector in relation to the closure of kindergartens in recent years. To put it that way, every fall will be put down some kindergartens and some will be created. In particular, family-daughters are very variable, because they have very personal relationships with those who drive them. But if we're going to look at numbers – we're going to say from 1992 to 1996 – then the public kindergartens have increased from 2,850 places to 3,057, and the private kindergartens from 2,415 to 3,352, so that the biggest growth is in the private nursery owners, which we're also aware of. This must also be taken into account in relation to the support schemes that municipalities do not provide to private kindergartens. We have to find a solution that is so good that we can ensure the further operation of the kindergartens. When it comes to the conversion of bets, from this year onwards, kindergartens have to have two censuses in relation to children who go to kindergarten. I see that the time has come, but I should rather explain it to the representative on a two-man basis. It's mixed up. But the vast majority of municipalities will actually win on the scheme that we have proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e957	Then the interpellation debate was over, and there was the last of the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e963	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e970	During the debate, Mr Gabrielsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. We vote first on the proposal and then on the vote. The proposal from the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left reads: ‘The matter shall be referred back to the Food and Agriculture Committee for review. The Committee shall be called upon to hold open consultations.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e1013	Here the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e1048	To Case No 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25-2.ana.ud1970e1057	There is no record.
