ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-04.ana.ud1467e23	The representatives of Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, Carl I. Hagen, Thore Aksel Nistad, Ann Helen Rui and Øystein Hedstrøm, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. They called for alternates, for Telemark County Gunn Marit Helgesen and for Vestfold County Ellen Gjerpe Hansen and Anders Anundsen, have taken their seats. An application for leave signed by the Head of Delegation, President of Stortinget Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, has been submitted from the appointed Grand Duchy of Estonia. The application concerns the leave of President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl of the United Kingdom on 6 October and the representatives of Modulf Aukan, Jan Johnsen, Laila Kaland and Per Ove Width. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Third alternate for the Vestfold County, Kari Mo, is currently abroad and for that reason prevented from meeting at the Stortinget. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave:For the County of Buskerud: Frank Willy LarsenFor More and Romesdal counties: Ottar Kaldhol and Anne Lise LundeFor the county of Rogaland: Bent HöieFor the county of Vestfold: Knut Anvik2. Frank Willy Larsen, Ottar Kaldhol, Anders Anundsen and Knut Anvik are elected to the Lamentations for the time they meet the representatives of Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, Laila Kaland, Per Ove Wide and Per Erik Monsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-04.ana.ud1467e116	The representative Per-Kristian Foss will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-04.ana.ud1467e119	I allow myself, on behalf of the representative Ansgar Gabrielsen and myself, to propose to the Government to take action to reduce the form field and the number of laws and regulations that business needs to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-04.ana.ud1467e124	The representative, Jan Simonsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-04.ana.ud1467e127	I am delighted to present a proposal for a strong increase in criminal punishment for criminals by introducing a system that automatically doubles criminal punishment for second-hand criminals, triples third-time criminals, quadruples for fourth-time criminals, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-04.ana.ud1467e132	The representative Steinar Bastesen will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-04.ana.ud1467e135	I would like to put forward a proposal that the SND should be allocated as soon as possible to capital earmarked for loans and grants for fishing activities that are threatened with closure as a result of the hygiene requirements of the EEA Agreement. I also have a proposal to amend the Vergemålsgesetz so that fishermen who are 16 years old and are on page B in the number of fishermen can register in the company register.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-04.ana.ud1467e143	These proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-04.ana.ud1467e153	During the last year, the Norwegian economy has been significantly strengthened. Trust has been restored. Thus, it is also with boldness and a good feeling that I can present today the government’s financial arrangement – a good central budget – for the first year of a new millennium. One year ago, the Norwegian economy was in a critical phase after five years of recession. The economy was overheating. After the income statement last spring, the growth in earnings in Norway came out of line with the growth in wages and salaries of our trading partners. At the same time, the oil price was almost halved in a few months. The foreign economy was in deficit after several years of high profits. There were economic and financial crises in Asia, Latin America and Russia. These conditions contributed to the Norwegian krona’s fall in value. The Bank of Norway found it necessary to increase interest rates by 4.5 percentage points in a short period of time. The mood in the media and in professional and political environments was marked by seriousness and crisis. The government’s economic policy was criticised. There were gloomy descriptions of the outlook for the Norwegian economy. Many predicted a crash landing for the economy in 1999, with a sharp increase in unemployment. That's not how it's done. The Norwegian economy now seems to be able to land softly after the long boom. Employment is record high and unemployment is still low. To date, developments this year indicate that average unemployment in 1999 is estimated to be as in the national budget last autumn. The exchange rate is back at about the same level as before the euro last summer, and interest rates are going downhill. The government interest rates of the Bank of Norway have been reduced by 2,5 percentage points since the year-end. The additions to the year's income statement became moderate so that the annual wage growth this year is significantly lower than last year. A tight budgetary framework and enhanced income policy cooperation have provided a good basis for this development. The oil price increase this year has also contributed to a stronger dollar rate and lower interest rates. Norway is one of the richest countries in the world. We have good public services and a comprehensive social security network. Most people have good incomes and experience social protection. We have to keep track of the good results we have achieved. At the same time, we need to develop the welfare society further. The weakest groups in society should get better living conditions. Sick and elderly people need to be given greater security of care and care when they need it. Young people need training to enable them to meet the labour market of the future. Adults must also be given good opportunities for new competences. We have to get better at taking care of the environment. It is a fundamental prerequisite for future generations to have a good life. We also need to maintain a scattered settlement. It is important for the environment, well-being and diversity of Norwegian society. Public finances are sound in Norway. Many European countries are struggling with large deficits and high debt. It has forced them to cut down on welfare arrangements. In Norway, the public sector has huge profits, and we have money on book, which former Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen used to say. At the same time, we build out welfare schemes instead of cutting them down. Norway and most other industrialised countries are facing a sharp increase in the proportion of older people in the years to come. There is concern about the increased burden of dependability that must be borne by future economically active workers. This presents us with great challenges. However, Norway has better conditions to deal with this than most other countries in the same situation. If we are to succeed, however, we must set aside a substantial part of the petroleum revenues and keep track of the mainland economy in the years to come. There is a need for increased public efforts in many areas. However, efforts must be stepped up gradually and in a way that does not undermine the economy of the country. In isolation, the receipts of petroleum give the country considerable financial autonomy in the short term. Many people may find it difficult to understand why more oil money cannot be used by the state to solve public sector tasks. However, spending too much oil revenue on the State budget contributes to increased price and cost growth, which weakens the competitive part of business. The reduction of the competitive sector would eventually undermine the mainland economy and hence the long-term basis for well-being. The Norwegian economy is coming to a better balance. But it's too early to blow the danger over. The main challenge in economic policy now is to bring price and cost growth down to the same level as in our trading partners. This is necessary if, in the years to come, we are to be able to maintain high employment and low unemployment and to avoid a peculiarly high interest rate. From 1997 to 1998, wages and salaries in Norway increased by 6.2pst. average. This was twice as high as our trading partners. The average annual wage growth this year is estimated to be 4.75 pst. It is still significantly higher than with our trading partners. The high wage growth contributes to the loss of cost competitiveness of Norwegian industry and other competitive activities. From 1994 to 1999, the loss of competitiveness of industry is estimated at more than 7 pst. It is therefore very important that the growth of wages should fall to the same level as with our trading partners as early next year. In the government’s financial arrangements, an average salary increase of 3.25 pst is taken into account. from 1999 to 2000. This makes great demands both for the authorities and for the social partners. The next year’s government budget must help to ensure that demand for goods and services is not too strong. The monetary policy is firm and shall focus on stability in the value of the crown measured against European currencies. The social partners must continue the moderating line from the income statements in ours. If this is not achieved by the social authorities and social partners, there is a significant risk that the high economic cycle in the Norwegian economy will still lead to a severe setback. We can then have a strong increase in unemployment, as we experienced after the economic boom of both the 1970s and 1980s. The government's draft government budget is adapted to take account of a balanced development in the Norwegian economy. At the same time, there is room for increased public efforts within, inter alia, education, research, health care, care for the elderly, energy and the environment, development assistance and district policies. In order to provide room for this within a sound budgetary framework, the Government has found it necessary to propose certain tax increases, with a focus on a good distribution profile. The Norwegian economy has grown strongly since the boom began six years ago. From 1993 to 1998, the gross domestic product of mainland Norway increased by about 20 pst, or 3,7 pst. on an annual average basis. Employment increased by over 226 000 people, or 11 pst. during the same period. Capacity utilisation in the Norwegian economy is now very high. This is supported, inter alia, by: by labour force surveys of the Central Statistical Office. The figures for the first eight months of the year show that growth in employment is coming to an end. At the same time, the figures show that unemployment remained low during this period. Employment is therefore restricted by access to labour. The high wage growth last year was also a sign of very high capacity utilisation. Therefore, we have to expect significantly lower growth in the mainland economy over a limited period than in recent years. The GDP of mainland Norway is now estimated to grow by about 0.5 pst. this year and about 0,75 pst. Next year. On the demand side, lower investments, both in the oil sector and in parts of the mainland economy, are expected to contribute to lower growth. Households’ demand, on the other hand, is expected to generate significant growth impulses. Overall growth in gross domestic product is estimated to rise from 1 pst. in the year until at the lower edge of 3 pst. Next year. Higher oil and gas production is the main cause of increased growth. Labour force surveys by the Central Bureau showed seasonally adjusted unemployment of 2.9 pst. in the three-month period June to August. Although unemployment is expected to be lower than we saw in the revised national budget, one has to count on slightly higher unemployment in the future. Developments in registered unemployment in the last few months also indicate this. The average AKU unemployment is now estimated to be about 0.25 percentage points lower than estimated in the revised national budget both this year and next year. The national budget estimates the average AKU leave to be 3,2 pst. in 1999 and 3.6 pst. in 2000. The availability was for the comparison 4.1 pst. in 1997. Unemployment may in particular increase in the oil-related industry. In other parts of the labour market, high labour shortages can still be expected. This applies, inter alia, to: in the health and care sector and other parts of the public sector. Investment on the continental shelf grew sharply between 1996 and 1998 and contributed to the pressure problems in the Norwegian economy. These investments are significantly reduced both this year and especially next year. This isn't going to happen unexpectedly. Already in the 1997 national budget, presented by the then Labour Party Government, a sharp fall in oil investment was foreseen in 1999 and 2000. The fall in oil investment will contribute to lower activity in the oil-related part of Norwegian industry. This is due to structural conditions and cannot be countered by a more expansive economic policy. However, the government proposes some measures in the State budget that can help mitigate the fall in oil investment. Among other things, a significant reduction in the CO2 tax is proposed on the cap. As announced in the revised national budget, a gradual phasing-out of the production levy is proposed. It is also proposed to allocate 100 million. kr to project-oriented technology development in the petroleum sector. This is a cooperation project with the industry, with a third contribution from the State. The overall framework conditions for the industry will be assessed in the oil notification submitted early next year. Furthermore, appropriations for the construction and maintenance of ships are proposed, which may help to mitigate the fall in activity in this part of industry. The yard aid is continued at a level corresponding to the maximum allowable aid in the EU. Appropriations for the construction of a new marine research vessel and for the replacement of the fishing fleet are proposed. In addition, the defense aims to build a new coastguard vessel. The Government will facilitate the contract of two new fast-haul carriers by the fast-haul companies during 1999. The shipbuilding industry and other oil-related activities have a high level of competence. Many workers in these enterprises are in demand in other parts of the labour market. This will make it easier to deal with unemployment problems that can be reported. Active use of labour market measures and intensified dissemination efforts will also remedy the situation. In close cooperation with industry, the Labour Market Act will implement training measures as part of a necessary transition. The allocation of labour market measures in 2000 is estimated to accommodate around 7 500 action sites on average for the year. The level of action for the second half of 2000 will be further assessed in the context of the revised national budget for 2000, in the light of developments in the labour market. The government attaches great importance to continuing close cooperation with the social partners. An income policy cooperation based on a common understanding of the functioning of the economy and the assumptions for employment and value creation have been a pillar of economic policy in Norway in recent years. All in all, this has produced good results. In the early part of the economic cycle of the 1990s, income policy cooperation contributed significantly to maintaining strong economic growth and falling unemployment without substantial growth in wages. In many other countries, it has proved difficult to achieve this. However, towards the end of the boom, fiscal policy was not tight enough to avoid pressure problems and strong wage growth. Prior to the year’s income statement, the Government maintained close contact with the social partners in order to strengthen income policy cooperation. Among other things, the Arntsen Committee was set up to prepare the income statements. In the sample, where both the authorities and the social partners were represented, there was a broad consensus on important assumptions ahead of settlements. The parties demonstrated moderation, including: in the light of the Government’s contribution to a reform of training and competences. Moderate additions in spring income statements contribute to a significantly lower wage overhang in 2000 than in 1999. If the moderating line from the spring settlement continues, we have good opportunities to get the annual wage growth next year down to the same level as with the trading partners. However, employees will be able to have a favourable trend in purchasing power. The growth in consumer prices is estimated to be 2,2 pst. this year and 2 pst. Next year. This gives an estimated real wage growth of about 2.5 pst. in 1999 and about 1.25 pst. in 2000. The moderation must apply to all, including business leaders and others with high incomes. Without the most lucrative contributors, it is difficult to achieve a general consensus on moderate income settlement. Oil is a non-renewable resource. The oil wealth must therefore be managed in such a way that our children and grandchildren also benefit from it. Economic policy must be based on the gradual decline in petroleum revenues. At the same time, increasing numbers of older people in the population will lead to significant increases in pension expenditure and an increasing need for care services. The active part of the population will decline. To meet these challenges, there are in particular two important elements. The State must add a significant part of its oil income to the State Petroleum Fund. Furthermore, professional participation must be maintained at a high level. The cash flow from the petroleum activity is estimated at 85 billion kroner in 2000. Of this, the Government proposes that barely 72 billion DKK be set aside in the petroleum fund. The oil price has more than doubled in the last few months. Last week it came over 190 kroner per week. barrel. The budget assumes an average oil price of 125 kroner per year. This year and next year. We can't assume that the high oil price we now have is going to last. It's not more than eight months since the oil price was less than 80 kroner per year. barrel. If we allowed the fluctuations in the oil price to take place at the cost of the country or at the level of taxation, fiscal policy would help destabilise the economy. Retirement schemes have a major impact on professional activity. The national budget discusses key pension policy issues. The discussion includes, among other things: based on the investigations carried out by the samples which have considered issues relating to the funding of public funds and early retirement schemes, respectively. Recent developments towards lower retirement age from work cannot continue. The government therefore sees good reasons for legislative changes to counter the trend towards increased early retirement. Financial policy has a primary responsibility for stabilising developments in the Norwegian economy. Economic growth is expected to be low this year and next year. However, the use of capacity in the economy will remain high, with significant labour shortages in large parts of the labour market. It makes the Norwegian economy vulnerable to new strong demand growth. Financial policy must take this into account. There is therefore no room for an expansionary fiscal policy next year. The government's proposals for the government budget are neutral. This means that the oil, interest rate and activity-adjusted budget deficit is growing in line with the mainland economy. The government budget deficit before oil revenues is estimated at DKK 13.3 billion. The total surplus on the State budget and on the State Petroleum Fund is estimated at DKK 79.2 billion. Thus, by the end of next year, the total capital of the kerosene fund will reach just under 300 billion kroner. The government will expand the list of countries and areas in which the petroleum fund can be invested. Work is being done on the establishment of an environmental fund within the petroleum fund. A real underlying growth is estimated in government budget expenditure of 2.5 pst. Next year. It equals $10.3 billion measured at 1999 prices. A significant part of the next year’s expenditure growth is due to increased expenditure under public security and other regulatory arrangements. Among other things, the cost of health benefits, disability pensions, old-age pensions, rehabilitation and medical and technical aids actually increases by a total of DKK 4.3 billion. Of these, the health benefits amount to NOK 1.1 billion and disability pensions to NOK 1.8 billion. The government has chosen to protect the welfare systems of significant intensities. In addition, the Government wants to increase public efforts in other important areas, in particular in the health sector and care for the elderly. In order to make room for this within a sound budgetary framework, the Government has found it necessary to propose a slightly higher level of taxation next year. Taxes paid are estimated to increase by just over DKK 1.9 billion in real terms, while a real increase in taxes and taxes incurred is estimated at just over NOK 2.9 billion. Changes in child welfare are then included. The increase in taxes and charges must be seen in the light of the fact that private households have had a significant increase in purchasing power in recent years. In addition, the Government proposes some other increases in income. Among other things, a return of SEK 1.4 billion is proposed from the Guarantee Institute for Export Credit. The government submits a draft budget giving priority to allocations to areas which the three government parties regard as particularly important – a good central budget. It is proposed to increase the appropriations, inter alia: in the following areas: The assistance frame is increased from 0.88 pst. of GNI in 1999 to 0,89 pst. of GNI next year. The action plan for the care of the elderly is followed up. Operational earmarked appropriations are increased. Furthermore, the commitment framework for investment grants is increased to 5800 new hospital and nursing homes.The psychiatric plan, the cancer plan and the plan for equipment investment in hospitals are monitored by increased appropriations.The hospital treatment activity is increased by input-driven funding. This includes, inter alia: the development of secondary education and the implementation of the reform of continuing education and skills. The bet is directed, inter alia, at: against information and communication technologies. Teacher training and experimental and development work will be given priority. More is allocated to research and innovation. The returns from the newly created research fund are channelled for research purposes. The government intends to raise the capital of the fund by DKK 1 billion to NOK 4 billion during 2000. The government proposes to introduce an autonomous right to birth grant for fathers. Furthermore, measures are proposed to help establish 6,000 new kindergartens in 2000. Among other things, an incentive grant of NOK 10000 is proposed for each new kindergarten. The rate of cash support is increased from NOK 2 263 per year. month to NOK 3000 per month. a month for one- and two-year-olds.The age limit for family allowances is proposed to be extended from 16 to 18 years. At the same time, it is proposed to remove the tax deduction of dependants. The restructuring represents a simplification of support schemes for families with children. With a view to producing knowledge-based, forward-looking businesses in the districts, the government will facilitate the start-up and operation of enterprises. The appropriations for the action plan for small and medium-sized enterprises are being increased. Higher appropriations for SND are proposed.Appropriations for transport purposes are being increased. This includes, inter alia: Priority objectives of the Road Budget, the purchase of postal services by the State and compensation for domestic air route services.The Government proposes to increase the appropriations for energy and environmental measures in the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Environment. This appropriation is intended to cover, inter alia: measures for more efficient energy use and increased renewable energy production. to the courts and the police.The analysis in the Government’s anti-dumping notice shows that income disparities have increased. The government will counteract this development, for example: with measures for the weakest in society. This is followed by appropriations in the State budget. The government's tax regime also contributes to cohesion. It is a goal of the Government that everyone should be able to dispose of a good dwelling in a good living environment. In order to stimulate increased housing construction, it is proposed to increase the mortgage framework of the House Bank by 2 billion kroner to 11 billion kroner. The need-tested loan arrangements will be strengthened. Municipalities are responsible for a large proportion of the services that the Norwegian welfare community relies on. It is therefore necessary to ensure income and framework conditions that enable the municipalities to perform these tasks satisfactorily. At the same time, the local economy must be seen in the context of economic policy requirements. The national budget estimates that the income of the local government sector in 2000 is higher than that of the municipal economicproposition, although growth from 1999 to 2000 is downgraded. This is because, in 1999, the income of the local government sector in the national budget is estimated to be just under DKK 2 billion higher than estimated in the Community financial perspective. These revenues are retained by municipalities and county councils. At the top of this table, real growth in municipal income is estimated to be about 0.5 pst, or about 1.1 billion from 1999 to 2000. After the end of the work on the State and National Budget, new information on the equation and the tax settlement for personal taxpayers has been provided for the 1998 income year. Last year's tax settlement affects tax revenue this year. The new figures may, in isolation, lead to a downward adjustment of the estimate of municipal tax revenue in 1999 of some 800 million. kr in relation to the estimate in the national budget. The downward adjustment is largely linked to lower gains and higher losses on share sales than before. After the fall in share prices last year, share prices have risen again this year. Higher share prices this year will help to increase net income from share sales from 1998 to 1999. Therefore, there is no current basis for adjusting the tax estimate for 2000. In the preparation of the tax system, the Government has focused on environmental and energy considerations, a good distribution profile and simplifications. The government’s tax bill for 2000 represents a real increase in taxes incurred of just under DKK 1.3 billion. Changes in child welfare are then included. Taxes paid are estimated to increase by approximately 750 million. kr. The tax scheme includes, inter alia: the following elements: It is proposed to increase the peak tax entry point less than the projected wage growth. The minimum and the minimum deduction is increased more than the estimated wage increase. The equalization rates of real estate other than forest property are proposed to be increased by 10 pst. The proposal must be seen in the light of the strong increase in housing prices in recent years. The tax deduction of dependants is proposed to be removed. This must be seen in the context of the proposal to increase the age limit for child welfare from 16 to 18. In addition, slightly lower sibling supplementation is proposed in the child-restraint kits. The income tax on pensioners with low income and wealth is reduced. Deduction rights are introduced for quotas and contributions to non-governmental organisations. There is a net real increase in the level of fees of almost NOK 1.7 billion on an accrual in 2000. Charges paid are estimated to increase by just over NOK 1.2 billion. The fee scheme contains the following main elements: A number of simplifications and structural changes are proposed in the fees. Among other things, it is proposed to reduce or eliminate customs duties and excise duties.It is proposed that the production fee be phased out and that the rate of the CO2 tax on the base be reduced from 89 to 70 øre.The electricity consumption charge is proposed to be increased by 2.5 øre per. kWh, and a base charge is imposed on fuel oil of 19 øre per. liters. Three-quarters of the proceeds from an increased electricity charge are matched by the tax charge as a result of increased minimum deductions and deductions. The proposals give a good distribution profile to the overall arrangement, according to the Government’s assessment. The increase in energy taxes is part of the government’s efforts to limit the growth of energy consumption. In addition, energy saving and alternative energy sources are being increased. Among other things, taxes are proposed on some health and environmental hazardous chemicals and increased taxes on diesel and combi cars. Increased revenues from environmental taxes have provided room for relief in the context of the proposed simplifications of the charging system. The National Budget refers to the Government’s work on reforming the VAT system. The Government considers it desirable that VAT should cover several services. At the same time, the VAT on food should be reduced and the investment levy removed. In order to implement this within a province-neutral framework, the Government adopts that it may be necessary to increase the general VAT rate. The Government aims to present a proposition for the reform of the VAT system before Easter next year. The government is also aiming to provide a big message on a number of tax issues during the spring. Initially, I described the challenges we are facing. Norway has a solid economy. We have a good starting point for keeping high employment and low unemployment and further developing our welfare systems. Through cooperation, we have to take good care of these opportunities. In the last years of the boom, there have been pressure problems in the economy. The Norwegian economy is now strengthened. The task of restoring balance must be continued. The government has put forward a proposal for a government budget that provides a good basis for this. The government's draft budget is based on the government parties' policies and thus has a good centre profile. The Government acknowledges that it is a minority government dependent on cooperation with other parties in the Storting for the adoption of a responsible budget. On this basis, the Stortinget is invited to constructive cooperation on next year's government budget. I trust that the Stortinget in its work on the state budget shows great responsibility and will seek solutions that benefit the economy and are in the best interests of the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-04.ana.ud1467e363	The President will propose that the Minister of Finance's statement on the State and National Budget for 2000 be submitted to a subsequent meeting for consideration. – This is deemed to be adopted.
