ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e89	Representatives John Dale, Ivar Østberg and Gunnar Schaug, who have been on leave, have again taken up seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Hordaland County: Gard Folkvord For Uppland State: Kjell Ivar Fossnes For Oslo: Sissel Dagslet For Southern Tribute County: Bjørg Bruset and Michael Momyr The representative Steinar Bastesen shall apply for sick leave from 13 December until further notice. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first and second alternates of the Nordland County, Arvid Falch and Karl N. Meløysund, there are applications to be exempted from meeting under the leave of the representative Steinar Bastesen from 13 December until further notice, due to disease. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The third alternate of the Nordland County, Benn Mikalsen, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e146	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e151	I propose Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e156	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are considered unanimously elected presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e173	At the request of the family, culture and the Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate on the budgetary position be divided into two, so as to deal first with Framework Box 3 and then with Framework Boxes 1 and 2. – This is deemed to be adopted. At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that each debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group of parties and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes, and these speeches should be common to the two debates. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e186	I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Budgetary Cooperation. There are a lot of people who want our committee to talk. It's positive, and that's how it should be, but it leads improperly to a hectic interview, also out in the bright morning hours. When we get to the budget debate, I'll quote a little poem by Olav H. Hauge, perhaps to the inspiration of all of us: «Today I knew that I made a good poem. The birds chirped in the garden when I came out, and the sun stood gentle in the mountains. Every party will argue for its point of view, so I'll spend the rest of my time taking up SV's point of view. There is no lack of celebrations for Norwegian art and culture, the importance of art and culture for the whole of social development, for the ability of society and individuals to develop identity and creativity, for participation, to get challenges and experiences. Festive speech is important, but there is so little to it when large parts of cultural life live almost by buttons and gloss pictures. Requirements for profitability and growing self-income may threaten diversity and pave the way for innovation. SV believes that art and culture are the very yeasts of society, not just glazes when everything else is in place. By giving art and culture space and armsstrokes and guaranteeing everyone the right to participate in cultural life, this society can be secured in the future by curious, creative and creative people, a society in which there is room for innovation and diversity. For SV, art and culture are central to tomorrow's green knowledge society. SV will help raise the art and culture from the celebrations. That is why we are proposing today a stepping-up plan to increase the allocation of art and culture through Framework Area 3 to at least 1 pst. by the State budget and that this objective is to be achieved by 2005. It's a modest and realistic goal, it definitely doesn't create overheating or inflation, and I'm sure that all culturally interested politicians agree with the intention. Swallow if the proposal should be defeated now, we in SV will do everything we can to get through it. In our primary budget, we proposed an increase of 300 million. NOK more than Regieringen, SEK 345 million. kr more than the agreed framework. This too was a proposal for a modest increase, but it would trigger a lot of creativity and good work. Local cultural life is an important pillar of Norwegian cultural life. In municipalities with a tight budget, culture often becomes a balancing position, as it was in the municipality where the head of culture went to political strike. Therefore, and because there is a need to stimulate better cooperation between school and culture, kindergarten and culture, health and culture, SV proposes a pot of development funds for the local cultural field. From here, municipalities should choose from local circumstances. The local art and cultural life depends on artists being able to live and live from their work. The cultural schools will be stronger with local artists as teachers. Therefore, SV is concerned that artists can actually get work assignments and scholarship schemes that enable them to live outside Oslogryta. We are pleased that we have had the advantage that the decoration arrangements for municipal and municipal buildings must be stepped up. But at the same time, we are impatient about the development of work grants for young artists and the guarantee income scheme. We welcome the debate on the stage field that is coming, and we welcome it. I would like to stress the importance of all actors participating in this debate. But a future debate must not prevent the Storting from doing anything more offensive for the professional, free-stage groups here and now, because it is really those who have the most distressing unions of all. Only 3.7 pst. the means of the stage arts field go to these groups. I am convinced that it is in the meeting between the institutions and the free groups that much of the development and innovation potential lies in the field of stage art. It's by tearing down the walls between the free groups and the institutions that we can get to a development. I think the budget is taken up in this area, and I recall that SV has proposed a strengthening of the allocation to free groups, Networks for Scene Art and Dance and Theatre Centre. We did so in our primary proposal. I take up the proposals SV has under all three frames. I would particularly like to refer to the proposal we have on the development and reorganization of the dissemination of art and culture abroad. There is a need for a boost here, and that has also been shown in recent debates.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e216	The representative Valle has taken up the suggestions she herself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e221	As the representative Valle was in, probably SV has a good cultural policy if we measure it in crowns and ears, and that's probably how you have to see it. Because despite the fact that SV is adding 300 million to the cultural budget. kr, it spread fairly evenly beyond, and I find it difficult to see some clear profile of SV's cultural policy in addition to the fact that there is more money for everyone. Is it really that the SV's cultural policy is the same as that of the Workers' Party, plus 10 pst.? It fits perfectly in this case. Another thing that surprises me a little bit is SV's remark about artists with a multicultural background. We fully agree that it is a problem that they do not participate in Norwegian art life at the level we wanted. However, SV’s solution is to set up a form of multicultural artists’ documentation grant, so that they can be documented as possessing the skills needed to become members of Norwegian art organisations. Does SV really think that there are these artists who are going to adapt to the art life, and not the art life that must be so open that there is room for artists with this background?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e228	It's probably not like SV is following the Labour Party's policy and then adding 10 pst. The Workers' Party has a good cultural policy in many ways, but I think it's been too tight and bets especially on the innovative. I mean, if you look at what kind of proposals we've had, that we've invested especially in the innovative field. I also believe that our proposal to provide the municipalities with development funds is a particularly good proposal that will lift up the local culture field. But – and I have argued with that too – there are almost only buttons and glamorous images of art and culture, and there are very strong demands on profitability and self-income for the entire field of art, so I believe that the whole field of culture should be given a boost. That is also reflected in our proposal. Then to the artists with a multicultural background. They should not only be allowed, they should also have the opportunity to enrich Norwegian cultural life with their peculiarity. But being able to participate in the Norwegian artists' organisations is in a way an important springboard to be able to participate in and deliver their art on their own premises. Artists’ organisations also require a certain form of evidence of qualifications. There are a lot of artists with a multicultural background who may have traveled from their works where they came from, who need financial help to prove what they can, so that they can be allowed to become members of the Norwegian artists' organisations. It will then give them the opportunity to give their art on their own premises.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e235	I was right to say in advance that I was not going to take a line on the representative Valle, but I feel that it is right to confront her with what is the main issue of SV's cultural policy, namely the very wealth of money that they spend on beyond Norwegian cultural life. I don't have anything negative to say about SV's desire to give more money to Norwegian culture, we should have done that all together, and I'm pretty sure there's a broad consensus about that in Stortinget. But the problem is that SV throws blues in the eyes of people across the country when they now wave as many dollars as there are no realities behind. I asked this question to the representative Valle in the cultural debate last year, and then I was not really given a very good answer as to why SV is doing this, and whether SV sees the impact of its policy in this area. Does not the representative, Valle, think that, when you're struggling with increased appropriations for all kinds of good purposes, you're creating false expectations beyond the country, which you're going to have trouble catching up with? Or does the representative Valle think that the institutions beyond the country are seeing through this game?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e242	I think everyone here sincerely believes that art and culture should be better conditioned – perhaps not all of us, but most of us. What we're proposing from growth is very modest, it's very affordable, but there's no means that triggers so much creativity, so much work, so many measures that benefit the entire community, as well as just cultural means. Does SV give false hope? As a matter of course, art and culture are so awake that they see what is going on in the Stortinget, but I think the artists and cultural workers are happy that there are some people who speak their case in the Stortinget as well. And now when we put in a proposal to increase the share of the cultural budget in the state budget up to the 1 pst message, I invite the other parties to see what kind of opportunities lie in it. This is not an offer, it is very modest, there are opportunities for redispatching within the framework to which we invite. I also had hope when I heard the record of the debate on the defence budget. Then Anne Enger Lahnstein said that culture could both work as a peacemaker, increase tolerance and bring down the violence of society. It's not that I want an instrumental explanation of why you're going to bet on art and culture, but this shows that if you wanted to, you could take over some of the defense money, and they would do the same benefit, that is, lead to greater hopes for peace.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e249	The SV representative, Ågot Valle, commented that the market is not sufficient to ensure the quality of cultural life. Therefore, measures must be taken by the public to enable art and culture to play their social role. Did this pray that the SV do not believe in the individual, as the Progress Party has, that man has his own thoughts and opinions on what and what culture each individual wants, instead of being pushed into the cultural concept of the politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e254	The fact that the market cannot secure all culture should be seaworthy for most. But is it that we don't believe in the individual? Now, of course, we do that. It's to give all individuals the opportunity to participate in and experience art and culture that we want the public to enter. It's not about any management of art and culture. Art and culture must be guaranteed their free space, but that must be done by not having the huge demands on profitability and self-income that art and culture are exposed to today. With the policies of the Progress Party, there would only be even greater demands for self-income, even greater demands for profitability and even greater market space, so that fewer opportunities to experience art and culture were given to participate in art and culture. I have often wondered when the Advance Party praises local cultural life. That's what the Advance Party is doing in terms of amateur culture, etc. That's good. But the Progress Party should realize that local art and cultural life needs professional artists, both as employees and to help them and inspire them for further work. What, for example, would happen to us? a revision was without a professional actor as an instructor? What would the festivals have been without both professional artists and amateurs? That's what creates wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e261	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e265	Cultural policy is not only about the production and distribution of art and culture, but also about society's management of quality of life and values. Supporting or choosing not to support certain forms of culture is a choice of value. Cultural policy in a country will also often reflect the basic values of society, and therefore it is important to see cultural policy in a broad political context. From a historical perspective, it is relatively new that governance actively supports a cultural life. Before the Second World War, it was actually quite common for the arts and culture area to be left to private initiative, and the state, which had no independent cultural policy, became involved in cultural issues by initiative and pressure from idealist individuals and organisations. Some political parties have a choice of value that modern cultural policies should be left to the market and that the market should decide what people really want. So easily one can make cultural policy. Thus, the choice of values and priorities will be made by market forces, as the Progress Party is the foremost party to propose. For the Workers' Party, trades include: modern cultural policy on the role of state, regional and local governance in supporting the production and distribution of art and culture. It is about distributing the goods that art and culture in a broad sense represent for the citizens of society. The question then becomes not only who will benefit from art and culture, but also who will pay for these goods. Cultural policy, like so much else, is about prioritizing. In this area, unfortunately, scarce goods and burdens have to be distributed. In this process of prioritisation and distribution, fundamental values in the various political parties become very visible. Right wants to maintain the collective memory and grants a lot of money, which they have left – apparently – to the museums, and the Progress Party is against fine culture and large, state institutions and will not push on the individual individual any kind of culture, but will therefore not facilitate any form of common culture. Cultural policy is part of welfare policy, and those who want to tear down the welfare society often start with cultural policy. The question we have to ask ourselves at the beginning of the year 2000 is: Will modern cultural policy survive as a social programme, or will it disappear, as the extreme liberalist forces desire, and the market take over? The working party is of the opinion that in a changing world people don't just have to know where the roots are, go back and keep what was, but they also need to know that change is of the good. Innovation and creativity are not an attack on what was, but a way to survive in the new, modern world. The question that the Workers' Party must then address in cultural policy is: can we in any way use culture for this? But that's not the only question we're asking: can culture give us a better understanding of ourselves and our own society and of the societies of others and their way of living together? The answer is again: culture can actually help us to better understand life and how the others and we do it ourselves. And last, but not least, we ask ourselves, does culture have its own value? Does it provide quality of life and meaning for a large part of the population? And the answer has to be yes again. The Workers' Party asked for a new cultural message at the turn of the year 2000. It will give us the opportunity to design a cultural policy for a changing society. A message of culture must be general and in principle and take up our multicultural society, and that culture and art should be made available to everyone. It is important that we look at whether the instruments we have now used in the cultural sector have been used correctly – whether we get the maximum out of all the cultural crowns, or whether more money may have to be allocated. Is the structure correct? Do we have too few museums, theaters, festivals, or do we have too many? Have the expectations of the node institutions, of the regional and sub-partial theatres brought about a boom in cultural life throughout the region? The working party wants this to be reviewed. At the same time, the theatres and the theatre structures we have set up in Norway need to be reviewed. That is why we have also proposed a theatrical message. Another area that is constantly changing is the film sector. When the Workers' Party proposed to increase the commitment mandate for films from 20 million to 50 million. It was certain that film preserves and strengthens both Norwegian language and culture, but also because it carries in itself the cultural media of the future. Movies and images are a language perceived by most, and can expose both values and attitudes in society. It was therefore important for us to have a future guarantee that the filmmakers could continue to produce just Norwegian films. It is not to be concealed that the debate on the Council of Culture and its position in Norwegian society will continue. The Cultural Council is one of the marriage children of the Workers' Party. The establishment of Norsk Kulturfonds and Norwegian Cultural Councils in 1964 was really about defining culture as a separate policy area and placing cultural policy in relation to the other policy areas. Both the artists and the politicians were active in the debate, especially the authors, and when the proposition on Norsk Kulturfonds and Norwegian Cultural Councils came up in Stortinget in December 1964, the Workers' Party's proposal was adopted against 46 votes. The Workers' Party had thus won an important cultural policy case, and through it had been accepted that the State has a political responsibility for cultural life. We must continue to have this responsibility, both through a strong and manageable Ministry of Culture and through a Cultural Council to capture what is happening in Norwegian cultural life. The aim of the Workers' Party is to clarify the tasks, roles and expectations of the Cultural Council and the Ministry. Similarly, you have to know what rules of play the Storting has in relation to the Cultural Council. I look forward to a review of the tasks of the Culture Council in the spring session in 2000. I am sorry that, in the cooperation agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Government, we were unable to reach an agreement on an increase in press support. Fortunately, there was no cutting in that area that was of significant importance either. I hold fast to what I said last year, and have, in fact, also received support from the Freedom of Speech Commission, that the press support is one of the most important instruments we have in relation to freedom of expression. I hope when we discuss the position of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, and when we decide what means we should use, that it will be done in such a way that we retain the freedom of expression that we have in Norway. Press support for newspapers and the media will enable them to be critical, up-to-date and independent of market forces’ requirements for financial profitability. Let me make it clear that the voluntary organisations are very important in relation to Norwegian cultural life. Within sport and in other areas, the people who, on a voluntary basis and in their leisure time, run music orps, amateur theatres, history teams, support groups for museums, film clubs, choirs and everything else exciting that runs throughout Norway, are an important source of quality of life for themselves and many others. Therefore, I am pleased that the activities of children and young people will be followed up in the revised budget and that the distribution key of voluntary organisations will be clear from day zero when the revised budget is decided. Sport is part of the expanded cultural concept, and after yesterday's World Cup victory in handball – congratulations on the winner, by the way! – we all have a sense of how important sport is as entertainment, but also as a source of national community experience. Winning a World Cup is great both for the practitioners and for those who watch. But one must never forget the work behind such a victory. The work of the sport is done by parents, sportsmen and firefighters travelling around the country to participate in tournaments, matches and events. Thousands of duty hours are used to make football courses, sports halls and sports events, and to hold cake bazaars and to distribute advertising. It was actually a victory for all of these fires of sport we saw the result of yesterday: says in the World Cup. But sport is also changing. Many young people fall from organized sport at the age of 12. What can sports and society do to give young people an offer they want and want to take advantage of? The Labour Party, through the budgetary agreement, has allocated 9 million. SEK for multi-purpose halls. The idea behind the multi-purpose hall model is that the interest of children, young people and adults in sport and culture can be brought together in a relatively small area. A multipurpose hall may consist of football courts, handball courts, leisure clubs for young people, libraries, possibly a commercial betting centre, a skater, climbing walls and the ability to operate activities that are not yet thought of by us adults. So the Workers' Party has gone in for $9 million. kr will be used for multi-purpose halls, and we hope that in the coming years there will be an opportunity to build more, including. in the big cities, which will make us catch up with some of the unorganized kids. Finally, let me underline the importance of culture having to be available throughout the country. It is not surprising that those municipalities that have a good cultural offer are perceived by the population to be good at living in. The Workers' Party's proposal on district operas is an example of such a way of thinking – transformed into a way of organising. The District Opera will never be able to compete with the Oslo Opera. But it can be a good supplement, it can be what produces interest in opera in the district, and even the smallest places in our pig-grown country can have a lot of culture to offer even the capital population.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e307	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e310	There's always a lot to be caught up in when the representative Fossum has made an article about culture. I know a lot of that, too, especially with regard to the modernisation of culture. That's why I noticed what's interesting about the post of the representative Fossum about what's going on in a new structure, and that we're now going to look at where the means of culture are going. I suppose this could be drawn up against the Document No. The 8th proposal that the Progress Party has promoted, which is being discussed – which is also going on in this area – to see what we are really using cultural resources for. I also notice that the representative Fossum is very concerned that they will receive 9 million through the agreement. SEK for multi-purpose halls. I have a question in relation to it: the representative Fossum believes that 9 million. Do you want two multipurpose halls on your feet? Or are we also going to have municipalities and county municipalities in order to contribute the funding? And when we know what the situation is for the municipalities and county councils, does the representative Fossum share my view, that here it becomes problematic to get full funding, and that the municipalities here have to make a priority in relation to other primary tasks they have, in the direction of these multipurpose halls? I also see that the representative spends some time on voluntary teams and organisations. Then my question is: was it not possible for the Workers' Party in this cooperation to get money in the budget for the voluntary teams and organisations as of 1 January, and not to wait for the revised national budget? The representative of Fossum is initially using his intervention to try to introduce the Right Party and the Advance Party's cultural policy. I must first be allowed to say that when the representative Fossum says that the Right has gone in to support the museums, the representative Fossum has well studied the budget of the Progress Party poorly, because at least we have prioritised the museums. We've also done what Fossum's representative is dedicated to concentrating a lot of money on the regions, municipalities, voluntary teams and organisations. In fact, in our alternative budget, subsidiaryly within the framework of course, we have prioritised the two areas by 700 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e321	The only reason why the Progress Party has a cultural policy of some significant importance is budgetary reform. The fact that they've had to spend money on culture is because we've changed the routines of the Stortinget, if not they'd have the naughty cultural budget for everything that was worth, and everything that was under development in Norwegian culture. I would like to say that the multi-purpose halls that the Workers' Party has put in are in no way fully funded. Clearly, this is a spice layer: what is on the state budget is 4.5 million. kr to each hall, and something will go from the municipality, something from the tipping tools and something from the county. This means that the municipalities and the places that will give priority to this must ask for the funds. There were two places that were in the cold to get such halls, and it was the Mjøndalen – the Workers' Party and the Right decided in common that there was to be a hall – and Oslo. The multipurpose hall has a wider meaning than sports alone. Those who build such halls simply want unorganised youth to come together with organized youth in order to improve the structure of their leisure activities, and the plans such as: The Mjøndalen report shows that this is absolutely possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e328	I want to include two of the Workers' Party's "children" in this line – whether they are married, I don't know. The first is the Council of Culture. Grethe G. Fossum spoke a lot in his speech about the debate that had been associated with the transfer of tasks to the Council of Culture. This was a transfer that came into the budget, and which was not debated at all in Culture-Norway in advance, and which at least provoked split reactions. Can Grethe G. Fossum say that we are now free to discuss this in the context of that matter the Stortinget will be presented before the revised national budget, so that we know that there is a majority in the Stortinget that has not already committed itself through an agreement, for example. between the governmental parties and the Workers' Party for what the result will be? Because if that's the case, we kind of don't have any reason to discuss this any more in Stortinget. I hope that Grethe G. Fossum can clearly confirm that this is a matter we are free to discuss in the Storting regardless of budgetary agreements. Then there's a child who hasn't grown so big yet, and it might be just as good when you look at the comments that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have come together – a rather eye-catching remark in the field of rhythmic music, or rock, where the majority, like last year, will instruct an organisation, the Norway Network, about how it should operate, who should sit on the board, etc. In addition, the Workers' Party's rock political spokesman Jon Olav Alstad states that the money from the tour, transport and festival support scheme is to be transferred to GramArt, which has recently been in the media's searchlight. Does the representative Fossum feel that it is unproblematic to govern a voluntary organisation in this way, and does the representative believe that it is wise to set up a system that allows new rock bands to perform at venues throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e337	The Cultural Council is and has been a very important institution in our cultural policy, and what they do is important for the development of a modern cultural policy. It is therefore important for the Workers' Party to constantly look at their responsibilities, their responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Ministry. The representative of Greece was very concerned about whether there was a binding agreement between the Government and the Workers' Party, whether or not the conclusions had been reached with regard to the Cultural Council. If we had come to the conclusions, we would have transferred the miscellaneous items directly. What we've done is to ask for a message about what kind of authority the Council of Culture is going to have, what kind of authority we're going to have, and what kind of department we're going to see when the Council of Culture gets more management tasks. And when we in Stortinget have come to an agreement here, I see it as a matter of course that the council follows up what Stortinget has agreed on. It is a very important democratic principle, and the Labour Party will at least ensure that it does. With regard to the second question that Greece raised, I would say that the most important thing for the Workers' Party in that case has been to strengthen the position of the practitioners, both those who are new and those who are established. It's important to get a rock music in this country. Otherwise, I leave the answer to Rockepolitic spokesperson Jon Olav Alstad.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e346	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e349	At first, I would have liked to comment on the response of the representative Fossum to the reply from the Progress Party, but it will be on her own account when she better than the Progress Party can say what the Cultural Policy of the Advance Party consists of. Enough about that. The Progress Party has a fundamental view that culture and cultural life should be free of political governance as far as possible. Culture must be based on volunteering and personal commitment, so that the individual, i.e. You and I, with our imagination and creativity can create something new if we want to. The role and task of the State and the politicians in this process should be limited to maintaining a legal framework for individual choices. The Progress Party believes that the political goal management of cultural life as practised today could lead to passivity and stagnation, and this is the opposite of what cultural life deserves. The Progress Party believes that culture is a very broad concept that each individual gives special characteristics. What is perceived as a positive culture by one person can be perceived as a vulgarity by another. A round of pub with a show night can be the maximum for someone, while others have to take a tour of the opera to experience their culture. Others once again have their concepts of what is good and right culture for them. Therefore, this must be a voluntary choice without too much interference from the public. The dividing lines in Norwegian culture do not refer to the individual perception of the concept of culture, but to the culture supported by public funds and to the culture not covered by such support schemes. The Progress Party believes that culture is something that is cultivated on a different basis by a society. Culture can be something completely personal or something that is perceived as all-manhood. Culture must be popular, so that the people's perception of culture will govern cultural policy and cultural development in the country. It also states that state aid schemes such as guarantee pay, artists' grants, ticket subsidies, for example. the opera and similar arrangements should be reduced or removed. If an artist wants to live from his artistic productions, he should produce art that is available for sale without state aid. Transfers to art, culture and leisure activities are particularly important in Norway. The Progress Party sees a problem in the state being able to dispose of the funds and thus difficult to achieve a fair distribution. It is unrealistic to believe that the public cultural effort in Norway will ever be able to do justice, in the sense that everyone gets their share. Public as private contributions are and will be selective and made on a subjective basis. In reality, therefore, there is no practical logic in public cultural bureaucrats making choices on behalf of individuals. It must be expected that in an independent market there are people who are fit to renew and further develop common cultural values. Therefore, the Progress Party wants a much larger share of public support to go more directly to those who are going to spend the money. The Progress Party believes that the voluntary teams and organisations can make this distribution much more targeted and properly for the benefit of everyone. The cultural policy of the Progress Party is based on the fact that each individual pays more for the cultural offerings he wants to avail himself of. In this way, any existing discrimination between cultural services will disappear. There are no differences in principle between, for example: an opera performance and a rock concert or country festival. What we mean by this is that good adults, well-established people with a good economy to a greater extent than today should and must pay for their experiences. We have heard about subsidising e.g. Opera tickets of the order of NOK 1 000 to NOK 2 000, and now finally a subsidisation of some of our regional theatres with a total of NOK 721 per year. Ticket. Here we have to keep our tongue straight in our mouth. The party wants and will strive to protect children and young people, as well as the elderly who have problems for different reasons — unlike those who are well established. Against this background, in its draft budget, the Progress Party has put forward proposals for significant reductions in individual items, while at the same time giving priority to others. In some areas, the objective will be a total reduction in support schemes over time in order to obtain a fair and proper use of our cultural resources. At the same time, the Progress Party will refer to the tax relief of the Advance Party, which also gives individual better advice to pay for the cultural offerings they wish to participate in. The Progress Party generally wants to spend cultural money on some important national buildings and actions. In addition, we will give priority to ‘common culture’ rather than ‘fine culture’. Children, young people and the elderly, as mentioned above, will be given priority over well-established people. Sports, music, etc. amateur theatres will be covered by these proposals. The Progress Party is of the opinion that the funds earmarked for cultural purposes above the State budget should be channelled more directly than at present to those closest to each individual user of the individual cultural actions. The Progress Party is very sceptical about the strong leadership of state authorities in how cultural resources are to be disposed of. We are also sceptical about the construction of large state cultural institutions, because such a structure can hinder the individual's free choice as to how to use the funds, and because such institutions are largely removed for most people. An ideal development of cultural life in Norway will, in the view of the Progress Party, be achieved if the funds are channelled substantially as closely as possible to the individual user and important decisions are taken in accordance with democratic principles in these paragraphs. In this context, the Progress Party will refer to Document No. 8:6 for 1999-2000 which respects these principles. The Progress Party has in its budget reduced the original budget by just over 900 million. kr. A lot of money, which the Progress Party wants to spend in other areas with a greater need for money than the majority may think. Although the amount may seem large, the Progress Party is convinced that cultural life in Norway will flourish rather than wither. The Progress Party has generally cut operating costs, where we believe it can both be reduced and rationalised. We are still in favour of a public expenditure item for 2000 of just over 60 million. kr in connection with the millennial change. We've halved artists' scholarships, but said that the remaining half should be available for young and new artists. We have removed the guarantee income in its entirety. The party believes that artists should initially be able to feed themselves on what they produce on the same basis as other self-employed workers. The decoration of public buildings with a fixed percentage of the construction total may seem to be more beneficial to artists – regardless of the economics, characteristics and wishes of the building. We have reduced some in theatre and opera purposes, but we also want to benefit children and young people here. The chapter Film and Media aims have been reduced and the Progress Party will, among other things, reduce the entry Film production, etc. Substantial. When you look at some of these films and how large they are, you have to wonder if this can be the proper use of taxpayers' money. Another major item The Progress Party wants to remove is the item Production grants to the press. Here it is used approx. 164 million. kr, where the 10 largest newspapers take large parts of this sum of money. A free press should also be free of economic dependence on the State. Nor does the party wishing to discriminate between Sami newspapers and others want to reset this entry to 8 million. kr. So you can ask yourself, what and where does the Progress Party want with its cultural policy? In its sub-proposal within the new framework, the Progress Party will propose to approx. 372 million. These are allocated to voluntary teams and organisations, based on the number of individual members, and that they are approx. 372 million. kr. distributed as cultural resources to municipalities, broken down by number of inhabitants. The Progress Party believes that such a distribution of cultural resources will result in the vitalisation of culture and the strengthening of the work of non-governmental organisations in Norway. It is precisely the case that the Progress Party wants Norway to use its cultural resources, which is to the extent possible to distribute them down to the point closest to its users. That's how you want to get the most out of the money and get the most out of it. In rural areas, the concept of culture often has a different dimension and content than it appears to have for some other politicians, except for the Progress Party. Here have words like broad culture, virtue, harmony, etc. a tall star. When e.g. My home municipality only has 439 cultural crowns per year. person per person years to travel with, although politicians, including the Advancement Party, want to use more, and when you know that this municipality is not in any particular position and has a rather orderly economy, this is dangerous both to cultural life itself and to how this could affect the settlement. There is no doubt that in order for the districts to survive, we must also have a living broad culture. Then it is not enough that this exists in the big cities, with the transportation and accommodation costs involved, as well as other practical things that need to be solved in order for people in the districts to get just this experience. Nor should it be or become the parent and voluntary contribution of others to maintain the spear, the sports team, the corps, 4H, well-being, the choir, etc. etc. only on the basis of cake making and distribution. Then the fire cells will gradually lose their glow, and the positive effects of this important work will be gone. In addition, the Progress Party has registered that the Council of State and the Ministry of Culture consider that more of the State aid for sport should go to activity and less to administration. This is completely in line with what the Progress Party believes, and we want to say welcome after. In the subsidiary budget of the Progress Party, we have, as mentioned earlier, earmarked large sums for voluntary teams and organisations, approx. 372 million. kr. In addition, I would like to mention the commitment of the Progress Party to our museums with a new post that we have chosen to call the upgrade of the country's museums, at 145 million. kr. Too many places our Norwegian cultural treasures are lying and falling due to lack of money and organisation. In addition, the Progress Party wishes to earmark a significant sum for, inter alia: our children and young people. Of these we can mention grants to the Young Riks, Norwegian Amateur Theatre Association, various projects such as the Norwegian Forest Museum, the Women's Museum, etc. In addition, the Progress Party wants to take care of our three proud sailing ships, as they need significant maintenance repairs. Here the Progress Party wants to spend 10 million. kr. Finally, I would like to say that for the Progress Party, our cultural effort is characterised by a so-called broad culture where the users are the ones who get the funds. In this way, we will have a fairer distribution and thus a growth in our overall cultural development. Finally, I am promoting the proposals of the Progress Party for Frameworks 1, 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e402	The representative of Bredvold has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e407	I want the representative of the Progress Party to elaborate on what he means by political governance. How is it that politicians here at Stortinget exercise political control over cultural life? Is it not also true that we provide opportunities for individuals to evolve? How do we control the National Political Theatre by giving them money? How do we control art and culture by giving money to the Molde Festival, for example.? What we're doing all the time is giving the possibilities, and there's these possibilities that the Progress Party will tear away. My second question is that the individual should have the opportunity to choose. Then I have to ask, can the representative explain to me how the individual can choose when things don't exist? When there's no theater, but instead there's a gambling salon in the National Theatre when you want to go to the theater, how can you choose? Isn't it so that the Progress Party adds that those who are going to have the election are the ones who have the most money? Then the election became as it was 200 years ago, that those who supported the art were dukes, kings and queens who lured the artists by means, it was the market forces of the day, and there was no cultural policy for the little man. How will the Progress Party safeguard the rights of the little man to culture? Or do they have no right, is it just the market that is right?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e414	Although you may initially know what the representative Fossum will ask about, it is always interesting and exciting to hear what she has to contribute to the cultural policy of the Progress Party. Sometimes it sounds like she knows more about it than the Progress Party does itself. Enough about that. Freedom of choice is one of the highest priorities of the Advance Party. I may not think the Labour Party and other socialist parties agree with that. Because with the high level of taxation we have in Norway, there is no freedom of choice to pursue cultural policy or to spend money on what you want to use yourself in the cultural offer we have. Restriction of freedom of choice is what it will be when we have a tax and tax pressure as high as they want. When it's prioritised so that 80 pst. is crashed and only 20 pst. back to volunteers, there won't be as much of the volunteer as the Workers' Party and others say they want. In addition, the party of progress will complete the profit of approx. DKK 2.5 billion of public games will go to voluntary teams and organisations. When I look at the state budget that the Workers' Party and the Government have gone in for now, it's detail management down to the smallest detail, NOK 13 000 I remember they reduced an entry by. And then I ask myself, where is the freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e424	Regional and local cultural construction is an item under the heading. 320 General cultural purposes. We know that the pressure on the post office is great, and many approved constructions are waiting. The batch progress does not support the Government proposals for this entry, but has a proposal to reduce it by 6.1 million. So it's going to be $34 million. kr. I would also like to point out that the Committee's members from the Progress Party have put in a new post, the upgrading of the museum, and it will be 145 million. kr. When the Progress Party says that it will support the culture of width and specific measures aimed at children, young people and the elderly, my question is: Why can't the Progress Party support the Government's proposals to the 2000 framework when it comes to state support for regional and local cultural buildings, but comes with a reduced proposal to the framework?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e429	The Progress Party is of the opinion that the state, municipalities and counties have a rather laborious economy. In this context, the Progress Party is skeptical that the State, municipalities and counties incur even more expenditure on such buildings. The point of view of the Progress Party is that we have to take care of what we have, we have to maintain it so that it does not deteriorate, rather than take new expenditure items that the municipalities and the counties cannot afford.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e434	It's always a little wonderful and a little fun to hear the Progress Party present its cultural policy – I have to say it. Now they want to earmark all the cultural resources and send them to the municipality. But the question is, does the Progress Party really need municipalities? We're going to label all the means from here. All health products shall leave here, all school funds shall leave here, and all cultural resources shall leave here. So what the Progress Party really says is that the Storting should sit down and decide what everyone in the individual municipalities is going to use cultural resources for. So if they just go straight to the municipalities and nothing is used in Oslo, that's okay. The progress party also has a strange double dialogue with the voters and with us the others here in Stortinget. This summer they made sure, by negative vote, that we got an opera that became very millions more expensive than it had to be, by putting it in Bjørvika. Now in the harvest they will take away the operating base of the Opera. So what is it really going to be in this opera building? Should there be bingo rooms there too? I wonder that, especially since the Progress Party puts an equal sign between showwrights at pub and one night at opera – that there are equivalent forms of cultural expression. Then they would like to have a claim on the same environment – what do I know? So I noticed that the representative did not answer the very interesting question from the representative Fossum, which is what choices will remain if the Progress Party realises its cultural policy, if they succeed in removing the state resources for operating all the cultural institutions that cannot survive without. You can't run symphony orchestras with regular musicians, for example. without a fixed operating basis. You can't run a national theater, not the Norwegian Theatre, not the Opera. You can't run museums without a fixed frame. I have noticed that the Advance Party will increase the allocations to the museums, but what about the living culture besides that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e443	I think the representative from the Right took a bit of a hard time comparing cultural resources with health and social resources. Meg bekat is not so many municipalities that have their own hospital, which is spending their budget on hospital expenses, but I think all municipalities have their own cultural budget. I read an article about the cultural director of the Eid municipality that went to political strike because the politicians had put a strain on the means that were on the cultural side. That's when we, as big-time politicians, have to question whether it's right to spend a lot of money, for example. on opera, which the representative Stolt-Nielsen had in mind, when the individual municipality has no money at all for its cultural budget. When you have problems with survival, what's the result? Is it perhaps because it's not the audience that wants to be there and see or hear? We also need to look at how many we can reach with our cultural policy, how many we can enjoy with the means we have on our cultural budget. That's where the Progress Party believes and is sure that we can do that by channeling our cultural resources down to voluntary teams and organisations, those who are closest to the users, those who know the market, those who know the wishes, those who know where the shoe prints and know what the money is going to be used for. The Progress Party has faith in the individual human being.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e452	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e455	One of the main goals of the Government at the turn of the millennium is to contribute to a cultural upliftment for the country. The most visible result of this relatively ambitious objective within the relatively tight budget line of the year is a nominal increase in the draft cultural budget of 4.8 pst. The budgetary agreement between the central parties and the Labour Party reduced this somewhat, but despite this, a number of areas within the Ministry of Culture budget will receive real strengthening next year. In this context, we also take into account the fact that a majority of the Financial Committee, through the financial means, has ensured that the planned grant scheme to strengthen voluntary teams and the local activities of organisations will be implemented in the context of the revised national budget for spring. Measured in crowns and ears, the real strengthening of the cultural budget can be modest. It would have been desirable that it be bigger. Nevertheless, we know that even small amounts above the cultural budget are important because they trigger new resources in many other places, both in terms of money, activity and creativity. This also applies, in particular, to the funds allocated to the company Twentieth-year shift Norway 2000 AS, which also includes the grant for the church thousand-year marking. From the Christian People's Party we see it as important to facilitate a worthy marking of the transition to a new millennium. It is desirable that the millennial shift can be a fine opportunity for us all to stop thinking and try to figure out a little bit about what it is to be human in time, ask for purpose and context, try to gather the threads and perspectives in front of a future that none of us know. Art and culture do not least have their place in this context. Recognising that more than a year's cultural budget is needed to bring about a real promise, we dare to see that the subsequent budgets will also add their own length as far as appropriations are concerned. More money for art and culture is important to achieve a cultural boost. But the government has also made other proposals that are important, and then we're talking about taking action that can create a cleaner and more efficient management of the resources we have at our disposal. It is in this light that we need to see the proposal to transfer a greater share of responsibility for grant management to the Norwegian Cultural Council, from the Ministry of Culture, the Rikskonserten and the Rikssteatret respectively. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that there is a majority in favour of this proposal, which will provide more comprehensive grant management. With regard to the transfer from the Rikskonzert and the Rikssteatret, this happens, as the Ministry of Culture suggests, from 1 January 2000. The transfer of the Ministry of Culture’s administrative tasks comes in a slightly different position. A broad majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Centre, have asked that this transfer be carried out with effect only from 1 July 2000, in return for a preliminary review of the future role of the Culture Council, including, inter alia, the following: the composition and mandate of the Council. However, there is reason to believe that the proposed reform will contribute to a more tidy grant management, firstly by relieving the administrative tasks of the Rikskonseries and the Rikssteatret and, instead, concentrating on its primary task of producing and disseminating music, theatre and dance. Secondly, a similar transfer of the administrative tasks of the Ministry of Culture when it comes will help the Ministry to take greater care of its overall policy design. A result of the budgetary cooperation between the Centre Parties and the Working Party in the Committee is the proposal to start work on the provision of basic material for the preparation of a new cultural message, and this is a communication that draws up the broad lines of cultural policy. Taking into account the fact that sectoral notifications have been carried out in several fields within the Ministry of Culture’s remit, a communication addressing the large and cross-sectoral perspectives is now primarily needed. It is almost ten years since the last time a communication on culture was promoted, and the work on a new communication will open up an overall and fundamental discussion of the cultural policy challenges we face. The majority of the comments state that, in the context of the notification, it should: ‘It places particular emphasis on the pressure on Norwegian culture and languages as a result of increased globalisation and technological development, but also on the benefits that Norwegian cultural life can achieve in a more open international society and the contribution that Norwegian cultural life can make to cultural institutions and users of cultural goods in other countries’. There is reason to meet the work of such a message with interest and anticipation. The government in the draft budget announces that it will launch a comprehensive review of the field of performing arts, explaining the premises it intends to base. The majority of the Committee is also in favour of such a review and sees that the outcome is presented to the Storting in the form of a communication, with particular emphasis on the theatre policy. In this context, we will point out that the Ministry is already preparing to start work on a future model of opera placement in Norway. This shall be carried out, as previously adopted, in parallel with the establishment of a new opera house in Oslo. Today we see an increasing interest in opera throughout the country, which has led to the establishment of opera activities in a number of places. The models chosen for this activity are partly different and there has been no escape from conflicts between competing environments in the same area. This requires a thorough consideration of the strategy that the public should pursue in the further work to avoid such conflicts being locked down. We've also noticed this autumn that cultural policy decisions can excite strong emotional responses. This time, the noise level has been most noticeable in terms of the Government's 1-million-dollar grant proposal. kr to Tronderopera and cut at 20 mill. kr for cinematographic production in connection with the budgetary conciliation. We have to be happy that we're getting reactions. It's a sign of health, while it means that cultural policy engages people. In the case of the cuts on the film chapter, the reaction is understandable because of the impact this could have on Norwegian film production next year. Due to the existing two-way distribution of film aid between so-called production aid and ticket support, there is a vulnerability in film production when Norwegian films go well at the same time in cinema. In order to maintain activity and ensure the stability of production over time, the cooperating majority of the Committee has found it necessary to introduce an undertaking authorisation of 50 million. kr. The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre parties did not give any major re-priorities in relation to the Government's proposal, but we are pleased that it was possible to find room for some additions to important measures. There is a small grant to several district operas, increased grants to both the Landspartsmusikerordnung and the Festspielen in Nord-Norway, and an increase in support for the multilingual library. Furthermore, the Christian Press Office has entered the state budget, and we found room for a donation to the Bragettheater in Drama of 1 million. kr. A decision that will have a significant impact on the jazz environment in Norway is the decision to turn the Molde International Jazz Festival into a national focal point institution. The Molde festival has long wanted such a status. On the basis of the significant opening up of the festival, the majority found it appropriate to give it a status in line with the Bergen Festival Games, the Nord-Norway Festival Games and the Olav Festival Days in Trondheim. Otherwise, we mention that there was also an agreement to make the Youth Centre in Ålesund a separate foundation, just as the Mining Museum in Folldal becomes a semi-public foundation. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are also satisfied with the budgetary cooperation between the centre parties and the Labour Party. However, as this list has shown, very few measures are being met by the Committee, taking into account the large number of requests we have received. Let's just admit the regrettable fact that beyond the country there are artistic businesses that keep a very high level of quality, even on an international scale, but that hardly receive crumbs from government appropriations. It's very impressive, whether it's for orchestras, ensembles, choirs or single artists who, despite this, are standing year after year. Much would probably have faded much easier for these if they had been more satisfied with financial resources, but the joy of creating is great enough for them to keep going. However, this must not relieve us of the responsibility we have to create a framework in which even more people can have a chance to expand their talents. One of the Committee's many responsibilities that currently weighs heavily is the museum sector. The state of many of our museums needs to be characterised as very critical today, both in terms of safeguarding large cultural values and in terms of the lack of administrative staff. However, I am pleased with the increase proposed by the Government in the grant scheme for museums and national institutions. However, there is reason to look forward to the soon-to-be-presented ABM message, where the museum’s situation will also receive considerable attention. The museums are important because they teach us about history. This historical knowledge is an important ballast even when we're going to meet the unknown that's ahead of us. I started my post by mentioning the millennial change, and I want to end it. When we are about to write in the year 2000 after Christ's birth, there must also be room for a reflection on what this really means – what kind of event it was that led to the story being divided into two, in before and after, and which we are now going to mark also in our country. There is no denying that this very event has been an inexhaustible source for artists and cultural creators at all times, perhaps precisely because it has given us a measure of what we are as human beings. Professor Berge Furre said the following at a cultural conference in Oslo in August this year: "What makes us human is our ability to reflect beyond the goal of food, to reflect on our lives. In a society in which we allow the public space to become a market and subject this reflection under purchase and hall, society withholds as a community, as a temple place." Yes, even a budget debate could give rise to such a reminder – perhaps just a budget debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e505	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e508	The representative Lånker opens and closes his post by pointing out that we're going to have a cultural boost for everyone. In the past, different representatives have been involved in this with the priority and profile of cultural policy. We are well aware that the representative Lånke is a great supporter of the opera – he must have been when he has made sure that we will build an opera and spend 500 - 600 million. kr at the opera every year until 2008. We also see it through the fact that the representative Lånke has spent a lot of time and resources on getting 1 million. kr to Tronderopera. I hear the representative Lånke talking very hot for jazz, symphony, opera, party games, orchestras, ensembles, etc. My question to the representative Lånke is: Was the Christian People's Party when they came into dialogue with the Workers' Party, at all, concerned with the idea of diversity in the context of the conciliation? Just to give some examples: the youth's cultural model, which now has young people up to 18-19 years of age in a violent engagement outside the municipalities and county councils in order for the final to take place in Lånke's hometown, Trondheim, in May next year, applied for 1 million. kr. Were there any thoughts of perhaps granting some funds to the Youth Culture Girl? I think of the Norwegian Amateur Theatre Federation, which is actually a national organization, but which receives far fewer funds than the regional organisations operating under the same conditions. I am thinking not least of the breach the Government has made in relation to the agreement regarding voluntary teams and organisations. So my question to Lånke is, have there been any thoughts about prioritizing differently from the agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e517	Yes, the Christian People's Party has thoughts of prioritizing. We have been presented with a priority through the draft budget of the Ministry of Culture, a joint proposal by a government that we are behind. It is a good proposal, where a good priority was put in, considering that we have scarce resources to distribute. It really surprises me that the representative Sandberg and the Progress Party are at all daring to make proposals or suggestions that we should give priority, as they are dealing with the cultural budget in their own arrangement where they cut hundreds of millions of dollars, and which, if it had been adopted – which fortunately is not – would have taken away the reason from most of what exists of active institutional and cultural life in Norway. They mention a whole series of events and organisations that we do not have the power to support, and specifically mention Youth's cultural model, which, of course, I know very well. If it had been up to me, we should have had one million for them too, but we haven't found room for that. This is the political everyday life – it's about priorities. We'll see what the future will show. I hope that youth's cultural model is not a diurnal, but something that will last, and that we can get to be with them and inspire them to continue doing a good job for children and young people. The same applies to the other examples mentioned by the representative Sandberg. Of course, there are many examples – which I also mentioned in my article – of good, qualitatively high-value measures that deserve public support, but for which no room has been found to date. We'll take that later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e526	There is reason to congratulate the representative Lånke on a well-functioning budgetary settlement with the Labour Party. There will be fewer and fewer re-priorities on the cultural budget. It shows that the representative Lånke appears to be a good and effective defender of the government's arrangement, although it involves a strong cut in film support and a need for cheese in the rest of the cultural budget. The representative Lånker was involved in this with the reorganization in relation to the transfer of tasks to the Council of Culture, and gives the closest impression that what the Stortinget now agrees to, that is to say, to wait until we have a review, is to be seen as a postponement, and that this will come into place from 1 July. Does this mean that the representative Lånke and the centre parties are now in a way stuck to the scheme outlined by the Government? Or will they go freely into a discussion about this when we see the motivations the ministry has had to propose such a massive transfer of tasks from its own department to the Council of Culture? Of course, the representative Lånker was involved in the ongoing debate on the district operation, a concept introduced by the Right and the Labour Party two years ago, which has gradually gained broad support. There has been a certain battle in Loan's own town, Trondheim, about this. The only comment in the budgetary position on which the representative Lånke and the Christian People's Party joins the Workers' Party is a note that says in a way that the Music Theatre in Trondheim is really the institution that should have been welcomed, because it has the support of local politicians and local music life. What's the reason why this is the only comment where the center parts separate layers?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e535	The representative of Trond Helleland addresses two points that I will briefly comment on. The first is on the transfer of the grant management to the Culture Council. The main issue for us and for the Government has been to establish a principle that this should be done. How to implement, what composition the Council will have in the future, how to describe the responsibilities between the Council of Culture and the Ministry in concrete terms, the relationship with the Stortinge, etc., will be reflected in a communication. But it goes without saying that a government must have certain points of view for the work it is going to do. In the cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties, we have a unified understanding that this will be done, with effect only from 1 July, after we have discussed what is coming in the notification. I refer to the Roman Numeral proposal in the vote, where this is quite clearly formulated. There should be no reason to travel any more doubt about it. So to this thing with opera: it's especially asked about the comments that go to the Music Theatre in Trondheim. I have a very great sense of the Tronder Opera, precisely because they run opera production in a slightly different way from everyone else in Norway. They create themselves, based on local and regional forces. In the case of the Music Theatre, it represents a completely different model, a model consisting of existing institutions and people with an interest in opera. Both parts are legitimate and both are positive. In fact, the comment that is being asked here does not say that in the future operation in the trøndelag area, we want it to be invested in the Music Theatre. No, it says "also," and that's exactly the point: we want to force a solution for the opera project in the Trondheim area where you have a common platform for the Dream Opera and the Music Theatre.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e550	I sincerely believe that the last exchange of lines between the Right and the Christian People's Party regarding the opera shows how important it is that we get a plan for the development of the opera and the dissemination of the opera as soon as possible, and do not wait until the opera building stands there. I hope Lånken can move in that direction and see that the SV stood for the treatment of the opera message, was correct. But that's not what I was going to say. There are many beautiful words in Lånk's articles, words about the importance of art. He emphasizes several times that here there is a need for more funds, and we will not avoid talking about money in this regard. He says something like it deserves support, but we'll take it later. When his? Will this be the case, with the initiatives taken by the Christian People's Party and Ola T. Lånke, that culture still has to live on buttons and gloss pictures – or ‘the joy of creating’ and keep it going, as Lånke also said? Doesn't Lånker see that there is a need to really set a goal to get art and culture up at a decent level here in Norway? Does Lånke think that if there is something more to be done or if there is more to be done to art and culture within the agreed overall framework, it will lead to overheating of the economy? I just want to draw attention to the fact that the cultural budget only represents the fluctuations in sick pay payments. It shows at all how little space the cultural budget has, and it also shows that there is a need for a lift. I hope that Lånker sees that a stepping-up plan for the cultural budget up to 1 pst. would be the only sensible thing, at least a very sensible measure, which also supports cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e557	The discussion about money is not excluded," said the representative, Valle. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to also see the cultural budget and the allocation of cultural actions in an overall perspective covering the whole economy. We're together with SV in wanting more for culture. And it could be as soon as possible. SV asks when we are going to get more money, for example. Youth’s cultural model. Of course, I cannot answer that question. But the goal must be to raise the appropriations for culture over time. None of us can answer what's coming next year, it gets the time and the economy to show at that time. But we have to be allowed to have visions and views about this. And there's a little difference between what I'm saying here, and what Ågot Valle is doing in the SV's draft budget where she's proposing concrete sums -- that's allowed, of course, and that's part of making what she wants visible, but at the same time she's taking money from other sectors without deterring whether this is money that it's realistic to be able to spend in this context. As I have said in a previous line to Ågot Valle, this is to throw blues in the eyes of Culture-Norway. If it has something to do with overheating the economy to give more to culture, it's hard to answer. I think we're going to take overheating, which was a phenomenon some time ago, very serious. It could come back. We have to have a holistic view of the economy as well, and we're going to be able to get more funding for culture, it's not going to be against me raising the cultural budget to 1 pst. of the total budget, but no departments – and I have to include everyone – can get some guarantee that they will rise to a certain level of total within a certain framework. It is a budgetary policy that is at least not realistic in relation to the economy we have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e564	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e567	The right is a supporter of an active cultural policy and emphasises the crucial importance of art and culture for the development of the individual's personality and quality of life. Anchoring our national cultural heritage is an important counterweight to rootlessness and pressure against national traditions. Active cultural policies are therefore important for maintaining the national collective memory. It is these recognitions that underlie the priorities of the Year's Cultural Budget. The debate around this year's cultural budget has been focused on the organisation of Culture-Norway. After a large majority in the voluntary service provided funds for voluntary organisations, thousands of teams and organisations were expected to reach a state budget where they believed that at least 70 million. kr was to be distributed to the ground plane. The disappointment was great in Freedom Norway and in the majority of the Stortinget when the state budget came and not one penny was to be transferred in 2000. When, in answer to a written question from me, the Council of State replied that the money would come gradually from the year 2001 and after every step up, it was no wonder that the large organisations reacted with protests. After much over and over, provision is now made for the voluntary organisations to be allocated funds in the context of the revised national budget. The right is strongly critical of the manner in which the ministry has followed up the voluntary service. The fact that extra money has been obtained for sport, but not for local cultural organisations, shows that poor willingness to follow a decision by the department itself is difficult to swallow. I am therefore pleased that, after massive pressure, this matter has now been put on the right track, even though the money will not be in place until the second half of the year 2000. In its draft budget, the right-hand side proposes to allocate 50 million. kr now, until this is all right. The second major debate in the wake of this year’s cultural budget has been on the new and enlarged role of the Council of Culture. I've been through this in a couple of lines and won't say much more about it now than it's important that we now get a prejudice-free review of the role that the Council of Culture is going to play, and what is to be transferred. So to a recurring theme in the cultural budget – unfortunately: the Workers' Party's attachment to instructing and detailing the use of funds in the rock field, or within the rhythmic music, as it is so well called. This year, too, the Workers' Party has received support from the Advance Party for a comment that goes very far in imposing on a voluntary organisation, organised as a foundation, who will sit on the board and participate in the organisation. This is quite strong when it is known that the Norway network organisation has held elections and set up the board legally. Why does the Workers' Party have such a huge need to control these appropriations in detail? Are you afraid that the ‘rockebaby’ of the Workers’ Party is about to grow up and will stand on its own feet? Fear that the close links between the Workers' Party and the Rock Bureau are being cut over? My claim is that the Workers' Party has moved into a life-threatening line. A desire to govern the organisation of Culture Norway through the mass intervention. I think it will be safer for all parties to allow the organisation life associated with the coat to develop freely and independently. The fact that the Progress Party is once again committed to securing a majority for such an eye-catching remark should concern both the rock and the Workers' Party. I would well guard myself to engage in cultural horse trade with a party that sees it as one of its most important tasks to remove the quality-oriented culture Norway from the state budget. The right is to note that the appointment of directors and advice in the field of music is to be made by appointment of the organisations of the performers. I need to make it clear that with the performers, the Right believes all the actors in music life: those who arrange, those who produce, those who organize, and those who act. That is what the Right refers to as the ‘organisations of the performers’. The right in this position is very loyal to the Government's draft budget in all areas except one, namely press support. It dares to be a well-known case that the Right on a principle basis is opposed to all state press support, and for this reason, within the agreed framework, we have designed a ‘free cultural budget for press support’. A cultural budget without press support has room to maintain the budgetary framework originally laid down by the Government, and in addition allocates $170 million. kr to other good measures. Of the smaller appropriations that are proposed, I will draw out some. We're going to give Youth's Culture Fair 1 million. kr extra next year. Youth’s cultural model is an impressive genre-crossing event that reaches out to all parts of the country, which brings forth new talents and gives children and young people a unique opportunity to present themselves at the same time as they become acquainted with other genres and shapes. In the case of investments, the need is great. This year, the right will focus on further planning and design of the new Hålogaland Theatre. We've done $4 million. to this end in the budget, which is necessary in order to keep the progress plan of State-building in the budget. Hålogaland Theatre is standing without its own theater building. Now it's time for something to happen. We've also done $10 million. kr in funds purchased from the national gallery. This is necessary if the national gallery is to be able to purchase valuable Norwegian works of art in competition with private purchasers. In the field of music, we point to the goal of expanding the symphony orchestras in the largest cities. The right notes that the Tromsø Symphony Orchestra has become heavily involved in this expansion, and we suggest that they add 2 million. kr next year to pay for this. In addition, we want to raise Stavanger Symphony Orchestras at the same level as Trondheim Symphony Orchestras, thus proposing an increase of 2.4 million. kr. We also support the proposal that the Molde International Jazz Festival be a hub institution. This is a fine recognition for a festival that has evolved for 40 years, and so much a recognition of jazz as a musical form. I am also pleased that the Bragettheater in Buskerud now seems to be getting funds to enable the development of a professional theatre offer in Buskerud, a theatre that has a children's and youth perspective and the multicultural perspective as the main guideline. Since the introduction of the concept of ‘district opera’ two years ago by the Right and the Labour Party, more positive measures have been introduced in this area in the State budget. In addition to the operas already in existence or proposed by the majority, the Right believes that the West Norway Opera in Bergen should receive a 2 million grant. kr, and that the music theater in Trondheim should receive 1 million. kr. In our second largest and third largest city, there is a great interest in opera, and it is strange that the priority of local authorities is not given more importance when looking at which operas are supported. The archive, library and museum messages will be submitted on Friday. The right will not take forward the notification, but will nevertheless state that the conditions of the National Library Department in Oslo are alarmingly poor. That is why we are proposing a budget increase of 5 million. kr, and request that the design of the new warehouse building in Oslo be based on the original plans for a building of 9000 m2. Our museums have great investment and operational needs. The right has put off a total of 93 million. in addition to the Government's draft budget for these purposes. It would mean a necessary lifting for many of our museums. I am particularly pleased that the Stortinget now provides the Vassdrachsmuseet Labro 300000 kroner in operational equipment. This is a museum and a center that has great perspectives in it. At Labro, a symbiosis is developing between museum operations, technology centres and general power plant operations, which I believe should be a model that can be used in the handling of the museum message. This year's cultural reconciliation between the Centre and the Workers' Party implies something new. First, you cut one with 45 million. SEK, of which 20 million. kr for film. A commitment mandate then extends to films by 50 million. kr. It is possible that the majority is proud of what they have been given. The right is of the opinion that the reversal operation shows that the cuts in the budget agreement were poorly worked out and poorly thought out, and therefore a poor basis for a consistent cultural policy. I will deal with the right's proposals under frames 1 and 3.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e613	Trond Helleland has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e618	In its alternative cultural budget, right-handers a total of 349 million. kr – and not all are taken from the press stand. The amount is more than a tenth of the total cultural budget. One aspect of the sector budget is striking. Most budget lines, not to say all, that the Right will either screen or want to increase, are items that take care of what has been, like museums, sailors, etc. It's in and of itself very good. But what is Right cultural policy in terms of innovation and creativity, and in terms of activities outside the traditional institutions, etc. – at all, what can be a bit borderline? That the Right is a so-called value conservative party, I have great respect for. We need forces that will take care of our history. But neither in the cultural sector can we just look back. So my question to Greece is: What is Right Policy to Promote Development, Innovation and Innovation in the Arts and Culture?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e627	The representative, Mr Breimo, referred to our primary draft budget, and that is in line with the budget proposals we have advanced earlier: we are removing the support for the press. That's the big cut. In addition, we cut the operating budget a little. In addition to that, I think the reply from the representative Breimo was a little strange, because I would like to see the comments from the Workers' Party that point so much more forward than what the Right's proposal does. I think we agree on a lot of the comments that go into the development of Culture Norway. One of the things that is important in this context is the proposal that is now about a new cultural message, and that is the time for us to get it. I don't have enough time to give a discussed version of what is the cultural policy of the future. But when one says that support for the museums is to look back, then I think it's good that we now get a museum message – if that's what the representative Breimo and the Workers' Party's view of the museums, that they're looking back. I showed in my post a concrete example, Vassdrachsmuseet Labro, which is just a symbiosis between different elements. It's a museum that looks backwards, that shows evolution, a technology center that looks ahead -- it's at all a combination of different elements. I think that's the way to pursue museum policy in the future. As regards the commitment to untraditional and innovative measures, the Right has a number of items. We are among others busy that Henie-Unstad Art Centre at Hövikodden will have opportunities to develop. We notice that the Workers' Party is the only party that does not want to participate in a relatively innocent remark about Henie-Onstad Art Centre, which is an exciting museum of contemporary international art. I therefore think in many ways that Mr Breimo's reply was not adapted to the real situation shown by the budgetary remarks.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e638	The representative of Greece continues, in so far as his intervention against his colleague Stolt-Nielsen in relation to the Cultural Policy of the Progress Party is concerned. I would just like to say briefly: at least the Advance Party has a profile! And even though the representative of Greece is trying as hard as he can to draw a profile of the Right Cultural Policy, I really must be allowed to ask the representative: Where is the freedom of choice, and where are the priorities of the Right here? I see that the Right in its budget picks out some institutions to which they grant funds, but some are not. Every year in the cultural budget, they pick out individual institutions for which they want to provide funds. I don't know if anyone is doing a pretty good lobbying to the Right in that context, but it seems a little suspicious. But back to that representative Helleland and Stolt-Nielsen were in relation to the fear of counties and county councils, and this with the fact that the Progress Party now wants to transfer 372 million. kr earmarked for municipalities. We know that the Right is a very warm supporter of node institutions, also in this budget. Then my question is, what is the difference, when the Right in its State budget grants a certain number of millions to the municipalities with premises saying that the municipalities and county councils must also give their funds? It is a stronger and higher earring than the Progress Party has. At least we want to transfer free funds to the municipalities, instead of instructing them to use their cultural resources in certain areas. So there's a slightly interesting question -- I see that the representative of Greece spent a little time on it -- that's about Youth's cultural model. My question to the representative of Greece is: Did the Right prioritise Youth's cultural model in its alternative budget?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e656	The answer to the last question, if the Right had given priority to Youth's Culture Girl, I gave it in my post, and it also says in the proposal – we do. With regard to the freedom of choice on which the representative Sandberg is involved, it is interesting, for our part, for freedom of choice in the field of culture means that one must have a bundle of established, good institutions dependent on public support, whether state aid, county aid or municipal aid. These are also earmarked appropriations, so that the support that goes to the institutions is absolutely crucial to having a qualitatively good cultural life that gives people across the country an offer of a high professional level. That's where we're clearly separated from the Progress Party, which says that this only gets scours and goes as it pleases without us adding any leads on how to use the funds – only it comes out to the municipalities, it's probably going well. What surprises me is that when we were working on volunteering, the Progress Party was at least as high on the barricades as the Right and said that this money should not go out via the municipalities, they should go directly to the volunteer organisations. Now in the budget, the Progress Party will come back with an adventurous pot that will go directly to the municipalities. So now, the municipal cultural bureaucracy is good enough to distribute the funds, while when we discussed volunteering, it was profitable enough for the volunteer organizations to do this. I believe that we need good cultural settings in Norwegian municipalities, but it is primarily the municipality's own responsibility, and then we need a wide range of non-governmental organisations that get funds through their central organisations. Then we get it together with established cultural institutions, which give us the necessary freedom of choice in both being able to participate in cultural activities and being able to be a listener.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e665	President! There's an obvious misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e673	Then the representative Sandberg must be very sure that there is an obvious misunderstanding he wants to comment on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e676	I think it should be ready. My question to the representative of Greece when it came to Youth's cultural model was whether the Right had prioritised it in its budget in the Financial Committee, and not in what happened afterwards under new frameworks.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e681	The President believes that the representative Sandberg now addressed was not entitled to speak in connection with the request for the floor of a manifest misunderstanding. But since the President allowed the representative Sandberg to speak, the President will also allow the representative of Greece to reply.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e684	The answer to that is very simple. The right does not include detailed priorities in the Financial Committee. We'll do that afterwards in the trade committee. I hope it's the same in the Progress Party that it's not the finance committee that rules everything.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e689	I think it's right to characterize the Right and the representative of Greece this year for the cultural friend after all the good suggestions about additions, which in many ways reminds me a little of SV's strategy – they have in a way become a little bit similar to SV. But they're not just cultural friends. I have also noticed that the representative of Greece, and to the extent that the other representative of the Right in the Committee, is also the best friend of the Government. They have joined the Government's proposal for appropriations on – I made a very quick count and came to – 28 posts where the center has had to give some less money cut in connection with the deal. But what's my point of appeal to Right Cultural Policy is that they're cutting whole hoods. 335, the press support, with skin and hair, to say it like that, and to use it in other cultural areas – in other words, sets the free word up against other cultural activities. The progress party seems to me to do it a little differently and better in a way, because they're going in after all to give some money – they're supporting positively some of the things that are granted to culture. The members of the Progress Party say, inter alia: in a note: ‘These members consider it valuable to society that there is a pattern of free independent local, regional and national newspapers.’ Isn't that right? I just have to ask. So the right smears thinly beyond the cultural budget, these things set up against each other. Isn't that free word culture? As far as I can see, the Right's proposal will mean that a number of newspapers, such as the Nations, Our Country, the Day, a number of local viewers, not to mention important publications such as Day and Time, New Time, The Morning Paper, Sami newspapers, Nynorsk Press Office, etc., are deleted. What does the representative of Greece have to say in his defence? What kind of cultural policy is this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e705	I thank you for the introduction, where I was mentioned as both a cultural friend and a government best friend. I don't know if I'm going to take it as a compliment, but when it comes from the representative Loan, I have to do it. It is clear that the cultural budget without press support is, of course, a real cultural budget. So the representative Lånke asks, isn't right-wing followers of the free word? Isn't it wrong to set the free word against cultural appropriations? In our opinion – and that is why we are principled in this area, as opposed to the Progress Party – we cut the post and say zero because that representative Lånker calls it a free word, in reality there are strong state subsidies to group newspapers around the country of Norway. The differential daily press can soon be referred to more as the fact that – what to say – the differentiation consists of the number of newspapers issued and the amount of state aid they can obtain through the press support. It doesn't seem to have anything to do with the free word. When you see that the groups, whether the A press, Orkla or Schibsted, buy up newspapers regardless of previous political affiliations, it shows that much of the reason for the press support you have today is gone. So I don't find any reason in any way to put similarities between the free word and the press support – because that's what we're talking about here. Then the representative Lånke refers to a comment from the Progress Party on the free and independent press. Yes, I am also a member of the free and independent press. Our main reason for going against the press support was that we were afraid to be familiar with the representative Lånke. Indeed, a press dependent on State aid is not a free and independent press. I hope that we will soon get more representatives in this room to understand, so that we can get rid of this subsidy scheme and rather use the funds on the cultural budget in a sensible way, for art and culture.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e714	The cord change is therefore changed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e717	Alfred Hauge wrote in the 'Eternal Second' in 1970 a prayer for the year 2000. That's where it's called.\t\t You can change the settings ‘In the year 2000, they were allowed to seek wisdom rather than knowledge, love rather than wisdom, more concerned with each other than their own.’ Yes, the thousand-year shift now gives us a special opportunity for reflection and awareness of what values we're facing, not least where culture is involved, and it's mostly. The draft budget is at least a good basis for cultural innovation at the beginning of the next millennium. The most important part of the proposal has now been the conversion of the Council of Culture, where administrative tasks are to be transferred from the Ministry of Culture to the Council of Culture. I'm glad that there are now multiples for this. The discussion about this has been going on for about 20 years now, and it is not hard to imagine the need to do anything here. In the first row, too many tasks will be charged to the department. Similarly, it will make the work easier for Stortinget, where I have often had the impression that we have been sitting on the cultural side with so many small detail questions that we have easily lost the overview of the big lines we are going to last. The background for the conversion is, among other things, that there is today a very inconspicuous youth of applicants to stay with those seeking support for different purposes. Now you will also be able to see things more easily in context. We will receive a message for the spring, where there will be a wide review of functions and tasks, and how the Cultural Council will deal with the new tasks for which it is responsible. Film support has also been discussed this time. I think it's the fleet film industry that's about 50 million. NOK extra in 2000. This is something there is now a multiple at the back of the Stortinget, and this is what the majority will do. Norway is a small language area. Movies as forms of expression are therefore important in order to maintain and promote our cultural identity and our language. Most European countries provide proper film support, and see the value in this far beyond their own borders. The ESA is now in contact with Norway about the level of film support relative to the EU. The movie support limit should not exceed 50 pst. It could be dramatic for the film production in Norway where the supported is now located at the top of 70 pst. I can't help thinking that we can't even control the film policy in relation to the EEA Agreement. When it applies to the museum, it has this time taken a good lift. Here, children and young people are an important target group where museum services are to be developed in order to reach a wide audience. The centre part looks like this to be discussed in full width when submitting a mail about it. Another important area is what happens within languages, literature and libraries. It is important in these times to promote increased interest in reading, ensuring good language use and Norwegian as a cultural language. In this, the libraries and public information are the rootstock of the local work here. By using new technologies, libraries can be developed as meeting places and information centres. A big message about this is coming. Special access to new technologies will be drawn up here, while the role of the school libraries will be assessed in this context. In order to ensure good coordination of language technology efforts, there must also be a clear commitment for government involvement in the representation of both nine Norse and book targets. I'm glad there's now a clear plurality for this. It is also important that you have your own permissions to the Norwegian Goal Team and the Norwegian Association to make visible the work of new culture and font culture, since Norway has two script objectives and a variety of dialects to take care of. It is also important to provide readers, both large and small, with a wider range of books published in nine Norse. I am also pleased that we are now getting better solutions when it comes to the National Library Department in Oslo. Missing maintenance over many years in a small time building has created very difficult conditions for all parties. It is otherwise a crutch of thought that a state institution, once administered by the University of Oslo, can then be let down when it is in charge of maintenance. I am therefore happy that this work is well started.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e752	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e755	After the presentation of the third state budget from a central party council, there is one thing I miss, and that I have also called for in the past, namely the profile of bets on culture and dissemination other than our major centres. To the extent that there has been some commitment to this in the last two years, it has been when the Workers' Party has received support from the Right, not from the Center Party. So I want to challenge the Center Party a little bit. When are they going to get on the road to develop a policy for a stronger commitment to culture and dissemination in our districts too? Then I would like to congratulate the Centre Party on the allocation to the Dream Opera. Nothing wrong said that you now also get on the track in relation to the idea of a district opera, although I might not have imagined that Trondheim was the first place you would have chosen in that way. But that's it. What I'm asking is whether these appropriations are an expression of the desire that this be the future platform for the development of an opera in Trondheim, and thus completely outperform the local and regional priorities, or do you see that the local authorities should also have a role, with the priorities they have endorsed from their point of view?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e764	The representative Alstad asked where the Center Party is when it concerns the dissemination of culture other than the large centres. Yes, there are so many ways to communicate culture. I only want to name the message that is currently coming, probably this week, about libraries, archives, and museums. Future library operations are a great way to communicate culture. That's one of our areas. Otherwise, I also assume that Alstad is aware of what we are doing locally to get this done. When it's about the Trenderopera, I mean that allowing money to do this now, is the start of the money pledges to the district operas. I would also like to say that I believe the Dream Opera is innovative, and it can, of course, also become a starting point for professional opera and complement this part of the country's cultural offer on the professional level. But we also have other areas that we will give priority to when it comes to regional operations. We have also discussed this. It's in our draft budget, but this time we're going to allow the Thrønderopera, which is the beginning of the greens for the district operation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e772	Customs to shut down regional theatres, says the representative of the Center Party, Unn Aarrestad. It may be, but when you look at why this question has come up, it's probably justified to ask it. Unfortunately, it is administratively rooted and miserable economic governance in several of our regional theatres. In addition, when you see tickets subsidized by up to NOK 721, the question to the representative Aarrestad is this: How much will the Senter party actually contribute to subsidising each ticket to the regional theatres with? Then to the movies. A newspaper article in Dagbladet on 9 December reads: ‘Not one single Norwegian film has been sold to foreign cinemas after five years with the New Nordic Films film market, organised at the annual Haugesund Film Festival.’ In addition, when you can read in another newspaper, Nordlys, December 4, that it is James Bond who saves this year's cinema budget in Tromsø, and certainly elsewhere, you have to ask yourself what is the cost of Norwegian film, which is supposed to be so-called cultural. Does the representative think it is right to use the taxpayers' funds for Norwegian films, which very few want to see and experience? It may also be interesting to hear from the representative of Aarrestad how much each ticket to Norwegian films will cost in the form of subsidisation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e786	First of all, regional theatre. Yes, I mean that the claim that we were going to lay down regional theaters because they didn't have a high enough standard was nonsense. I have to say that if everything is going to be just like what's in Oslo, and operate just the same way, then we can lay down quite a lot here in the country. But we're going to look at the quality of many regional theatres, and build it up, because we need these theaters around the country. It is clear that some places need to look at this in order to do better, both in terms of economics and other ways of operating theaters, but not all of them at the top, should not be good enough for one to put it down. We should rather try to do everything better than what is now. When it comes to Norwegian film, I think it's been producing many good Norwegian films in the last year. I want to see the country that doesn't support its film production. And I know that in some countries in Europe, there is a really big income from film production, so I have a very good conscience that we support this kind of production in Norway. It has something to do with what I said in my post, that it gives Norwegian language, Norwegian culture and Norwegian identity to show Norwegian films, both in conjunction with ourselves and in conjunction with others outside our borders, by showing the films that we've got really good at. We'll be happy for that, and then don't criticize.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e793	I support Unn Aarrestad's indignation that others will go in and try to determine what kind of support level Norwegian film production should have. There is reason to warn, as Kåre Willoch did in the previous issue of New Time, against a view that is so that culture becomes more and more a product to be exported, and that eventually it becomes American film, art and cultural industry that will serve. So there we stand together, and I hope we can stand together in such a vision. But I want to go to the library service. I am pleased that we have finally got an impact on the multilingual library. It shows that it is useful to take things up, for we have taken this up several times in SV, and I am, as I said, happy that it can now be ensured a decent level. Then it's the IT bet, which it's cut down to from $5 million. NOK 1.8 million. kr this year – i.e. not more than one year, but that is the level to which it has been cut down over a few years. And the support for the public library was almost halved last year, while the municipalities are in line. Aarrestad is very concerned that the libraries are an important channel of communication. What will Unn Aarrestad and the Center Party do to improve both IT efforts and support for public libraries? Then I am interested to hear what Unn Aarrestad thinks about the proposal that we have about a pot that can be earmarked for local development measures for the cultural life of the municipalities... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e804	Here were many questions to ask, but first of all: I'm very busy with the library service, that we're going to make this work around the local area. Now we got this with multilingual libraries, and there's 37 different languages that you can share here. It's also pretty important for these people who can benefit from this, that we get more funds into this entry. There was something we got in the last few rounds, so to speak. Otherwise, we're in for a language technology center to come to Voss. As I was also in my post, one of them is going to be able to use both nynosics and books, and I've also heard a rumor that you should be able to talk in different dialects, and that this can be recorded and written down. There's a lot of areas where it's very interesting, and we have to fit in with the development, but I think we can get a lot of joy from that bet there. When it comes to local development measures, I don't know if I got a complete grasp of what the representative Valle meant about it. But it's clear we're on it. It was among other things. That's why we wanted the money to go to a local holding, precisely so that a local person could get hold of this and use the money in the way that one saw as the best for their own municipality. When it relates to money for all of this, it's clear that when SV has $300 million. kr more than the size of the budget, it shall be able to compete.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e815	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e818	There's one thing that's struck me over the years I've worked with Norwegian cultural and art environments, and I've made sure to point out every time I've had the opportunity to do it in these environments: where in the world have they been done by our new countrymen, where are they multiculturally represented? I don't think I've ever seen such a clean Norwegian environment as what I meet in cultural life, and especially in art. And the feedback I've received on the posts I've made, except for the deafening silence of most, has confirmed that artists with minority backgrounds and other artistic expressions often fall outside these environments. I think the picture that most cultural people and artists have of themselves doesn't match what we see. The few will accept that they are exploding artists from other parts of the world, but at least it seems like that's exactly what's happening. Of course there are exceptions, but this is unfortunately often the rule. Cultural life at home is very focused on the national and western worlds, thus helping to shut out artists with multicultural backgrounds and those who do not use the same expressions that can be recognized and evaluated by Norwegian artists. That is why the Workers' Party now wants to see what the situation in Norwegian culture is really like. I think many people will be surprised when these results are available, and that may contribute to changes in attitudes. I have learned that Norwegian cultural life is one of the most conservative things that exist, almost at the limit of being afraid of new things. Not least the relationship with the policies and arrangements we set up, but it also affects the artists with new expressions. I don't think the state arrangements will come out fortunately either, because how many scholarships and guarantee receipts go to these artists? But it just becomes a reflection of what happens in cultural life, the problem lies primarily with the artists themselves and their organisations. There may be hope that new generations will bring with them different attitudes, despite all the people who have grown up in a multicultural society, and that gives reason to hope for rapid generational shifts among artists as well. The Norwegian Culture Council has a good programme going on, but I think we need to get closer. I have registered that SV also has a proposal for a scholarship to adapt artists with a multicultural background to the Norwegian requirements. It's going to be a completely wrong starting point from my point of view. For the problem there is no lack of evidence, there are attitudes and lack of understanding of cultural expressions that differ from ours. Now I haven't focused so much on the budget that lies here, it's, after all, in many ways just an interlude. Over the next few years, we will have a review of how we organise our cultural life, the work on new cultural messages will be started, theatres and films will be reviewed, the Culture Council will be reorganised, and the policy will be clarified. In addition, we will review the remuneration system, not least with the background of the EU Directive. One of my great frustrations has been the idea that Norwegian cultural policy should be financial support. Ergo will determine cultural policy by the state budget and the money, not by political objectives. It seems that in Norway there is a terrible thought to believe that there are areas of culture that can also stand on their own feet if they are given the opportunity to develop. Then it quickly gets stamped commercially, and thus becomes a fu-thing. It's quite popular to look at what Tony Blair is doing right now, and then, of course, I think first of all about politics, not about privacy. He has invested enormously in what is called the intelligent industry. First of all, we talk about film and music. We have a lot to learn there, and it's the Workers' Party's intention to develop further in the future. There are already clear leads both on film and music in today's setting, but it's just the beginning. After hearing the comments from the representative of Greece about the coat, it strikes me that this goes a lot into the debate with which I think Norwegian politicians have a problem. Rock and rhythmic music actually come out strongly strengthened in this year's budgeting. In fact, most of the proposals I have made have been accepted by the Right as well. But the Right has always been against making changes within the coat. They were against all the arrangements when we introduced them, and they are against them when we change them. Perhaps we can see that in the years to come, Norwegian cultural policy will be able to take care of the dynamics that currently exist in several environments, rather than preserving the mechanisms that exist and only price adjustment them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e837	The proposal for the 2000 cultural budget is based on some important main premises, expressed in terms of quality, quantity, geographical distribution and self-activity. These are criteria that, in my opinion, do not conflict with each other, but represent different aspects of the same case. The aim of cultural policy is to give people across the country the opportunity to participate in cultural activities, with the wealth this brings to their lives and to the local environment and to their ability to change and innovation. Within the scope of the financial framework, we stressed in the budget to maintain the real level of the vast majority of institutions and actions, as well as to strengthen some selected areas of excellence in their dissemination. I am pleased that the main priorities are intact after the Stortinges' treatment of the budget. The budget is marked by the willingness to review and restructure established administrative arrangements and to critically assess the activities actually taking place in cultural life, on the basis of an objective of increasing the quality and development of our cultural life. This I am prepared to follow up in the future budgets as well. There is a need to step up cultural activities across the country. However, the Ministry of Culture will never be able to achieve such an objective alone. It is therefore with concern that I record signals of stagnant and reduced involvement in the cultural field at regional and local level in many places. These are trends that are most important for turning around. A highly stressed local economy is a central reason why many municipalities choose to reduce the allocation of the cultural sector. As a former municipal politician, I understand that many people are in difficult balances when the budgets are to be adopted in these days. But I'm worried that if culture becomes a balancing point, we'll get poorer in the long term. All levels of government must contribute to achieving the vision of a future-oriented cultural policy in Norway. And the work must be done in conjunction with a living, voluntary cultural life. I have noted the view of the Committee on Civil Liberties on the issue of the coordination of the fields of construction, decoration and design. The Ministry is preparing an action plan for architecture and design. This will be available early in 2000. Dialogue with the institutions concerned is a central part of the process. In the 2001 draft budget, the Ministry will present the results of this process, which – as most will know – has the aim of coordinating the institutions. In this context, the budgetary follow-up to the Action Plan on Architecture and Design will also be presented. The media are important channels of opinion sharing, societal debate and the dissemination of values and information. Film, television and press play an important role in the development of Norwegian language and culture. Media activities are also industrial activities, but demographic conditions and the size of the Norwegian language community mean that media are not necessarily a profitable industry in Norway. Active policies are therefore needed, inter alia, for: ensuring diversity and genuine freedom of expression. I point out that it is a media policy goal to maintain the basis for newspaper publishing and a differentiated press. Although the overall pressure structure is relatively stable, several key economic instruments are under pressure. So I see, like the committee majority, up to the Daily Press Committee's investigation. There is a desire to ensure a cultural diversity that benefits the entire population, underpinning the plans for the reorganization of the film area. The Government will come back with a proposal on the organisation of film institutions and the arrangement of film support schemes in the revised national budget. As requested by the majority committee, I will come back to film policy as part of the overall audiovisual area in the appropriate context later. In the course of the next year's budgetary work, I will focus on continuing the objectives and intentions set out in the draft budget for 2000. We have many improvement points in how cultural life is best organised and organised, and we need to be willing to think about new things about the instruments we have available through the annual government budgets. This applies both to the operational budgets of institutions and to the framework conditions for activities set by the existing cultural building design. A broad and systematic analysis of the situation for an important part of the cultural sector and also of the need for the development of cultural buildings in Norway will be provided through the key messages on archives, libraries and museums promoted before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e860	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e863	Let me say that the concern expressed by the Council of State regarding the trends she sees in the municipalities, with a lower priority for culture and the pressured community economy, has actually taken the Workers' Party seriously by granting NOK 1 billion more to the municipalities, just to ensure that the municipalities have a better chance of putting culture, school and other bets on their agenda. But the background for my line is the Council of Culture. The Culture Council is set up to capture what is happening in Norwegian cultural life, to capture the innovative, to initiate processes, to capture processes that are already there, and to support them over a certain number of years. The Minister of Culture has now proposed that some posts and tasks be transferred to the Council of Culture. The majority have replied that they want their own notification of the work of the Cultural Council, the division of roles and the expectations they have of the Council of Culture. I think it's a useful review. What I want the Council of State to respond to is: How will the Council of State take the decisions taken in the Storting in connection with this bigotry communication? Will she follow the decisions loyally, no matter what the size determines after such a notification? Or has the action already been taken by suspending the use of miscellaneous items until after 1 July? And finally, how will the Council of State deal with a possible majority – I'm not saying it will – that will be something other than what the Council of State might have wanted?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e876	I will definitely follow the decision of Storting loyally. I consider that my duty as the Council of State. As far as the Culture Council is concerned, I am initially very pleased that agreement has been reached on the transfer of grant tasks from the Rikskoncerts and the Riksteatret to the Council of Culture, and that it is already taking place since the New Year. Furthermore, I see the decision that Stortinget will take, after all, later today, about the transfer of the miscellaneous items, as a clear intention on the part of Stortinget. By the decision that is judged to be taken, the size indicates its intention that a person wishes to transfer the miscellaneous items from 1 July 2000. We will then, until that time, present a communication on the future role of the Culture Council, the organisation and composition of the Council, areas of activity, award criteria, etc. And I take as a starting point that we want to formulate a message that meets the needs of the Stortinget per. 1 July 2000 to follow up on what lies as an intention on the part of Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e885	I want to ask the Minister of Culture as a general meeting of the NRK some questions about that situation. We know that in recent years, the NRK has increased its licence fees to the district offices – in order to strengthen them and improve their offer in the districts. I see there is a debate in the media around that one is now going to collapse and shut down different district offices. My first question to the Council of State will then be: When we close district offices and withdraw offers, will this mean that the license fees will be reduced in the same ratio as they were increased to strengthen them? The second issue also concerns the NRK and what we have talked a lot about earlier in the debate, political governance. I myself have been in a debate with the Council of State when she wanted more opera into the NRK, I call that political governance. I see in Stavanger Aftenblad on December 8th this year that the Minister of Culture has a positive attitude to tighten up the requirements of the TV2 concession in order to control which offers the NRK will give its viewers. My question is whether the Council of State sees this as political governance towards a medium. And finally, I noticed that the Council of State said that she was following the decision of the Storting loyally, and that it was her duty. Then I have a question that concerns our three sailing ships «Christian Radich», «Statsraad Lehmkuhl» and «Southern Land», where a unanimous collapse is behind our taking care of and finding lasting solutions for the maintenance of these ships. Can the Council of State give any indication as to whether she has any plans to find sustainable solutions for the maintenance of these three sailing ships to take care of these cultural taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e895	In the case of NRKs, district offices and licensing fees, the question, if you change the structure of the district offices, was whether the automatic consequence would be to reduce the licence fees. My starting point is that the NRK should have a well-developed network of district offices. We know that there are still some parts of the country where you haven't come as far as the majority of the Biggest would wish you had come. With regard to Eastfold and Northland, the NRC will make an assessment of how to organise itself in these areas by 1 July, and we will report back to the Stortinget in an appropriate way. If there will be some automatic reduction in the license fee if you change the district office structure – it will probably not! The size has given the NRK relatively high freedom as the NRK is organised as AS, and the company must therefore continuously assess its situation on the basis of what is economically sound. In terms of transmissions relative to the NRC, my starting point is that we have a licence-funded public broadcaster in the country. It will then be obvious that the general meeting sets out the direction in which one feels that the activity should be, without interfering directly with what is editorial freedom. [[The President clubs]] I'm busy with the sailing ships, and we'll obviously find a way to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e904	The follow-up to the voluntary service has not been so much debated today, and the reason for this is that a majority has now called for support for non-governmental organisations to be in place within the framework of revision. And then my question becomes to the Council of State: what made the department answer that it was completely impossible to get this into place before the year 2001, when the department has now agreed to put it in place within a few months? Was it simply a lack of will, or reluctance, in the department of what was the majority decision of the Storting, that of transferring the money directly to the voluntary organizations, and not to the municipalities? I think this is an important question, as the Council of State itself, in its contribution, attached great importance to the fact that she was concerned about the local and regional activity that one can now see in Culture-Norway. So the representative, Unn Aarrestad, from the Zenterpartiet, said in his post that she was concerned because the EEA has now taken over the governance of Norwegian film policy. And then I might see a little bit more of why the department agreed to this cut in production support for 20 million films. kr. Is there any other reason why the Ministry could accept this cut? So finally, in the election between cutting down on the operating appropriations of cultural institutions and cultural Norway and cutting off the press support, former Minister of Culture Anne Enger Lahnstein said very clearly last year that she would then choose cut off the press support, because it was more of a priority task for her. Is this also Haga's vision if she is confronted with the difficult dilemma and the choice?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e913	With regard to the follow-up to the voluntary service, there has been no tumultuous will either from the former Council of State or me in relation to getting it in place. The situation was that the Stortinge in May decided that this scheme was to be desired, and then the budgetary process had already come a long way. If you were to get this into the regular budget for 2000, the starting point would be that we would have to cut off existing cultural measures to get this done. You didn't choose to do that. But I am very pleased with the wording of the Financial Committee that this should be regulated without prejudice to existing cultural measures. And finding out how to do this purely budgetaryly will be a job we have to do in the Government. I am pleased that this scheme is coming into place, and believe that this is a useful and good addition to other schemes that we have. With regard to the film policy and the relationship between ESA and the budget, there was probably no way that ESA could come up with this idea of asking us about our arrangements. The representative of Greece will probably know that the 20 million. kr, which is referred to as a cut, is a special form of cut, in the sense that it was inserted as a commitment agent. That means that if it had only been 20 million. In any case, even if they could not be paid until 2001. As far as press support is concerned, I hope that we will avoid getting into the situation that we need to set it up against other cultural measures. I now await the work of the Press Support Committee and look forward to obtaining the result. And it comes as known to the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e922	There has been an interesting exchange of letters between the Ministry and the Committee on Quality and Dissemination. Øivind Solvang, a civil economist, has studied financial management in Carte Blanche and other institutions. He says that the Ministry of Culture uses purely quantitative measures, i.e. visits, when assessing whether an institution operates well or not. This is a very long way to go to market thinking. Carte Blanche is being punished with a decline in support with such an attitude. I'm really worried about the framework of innovation when one almost puts the similarity between audience visits and quality. It may be so, but very often it has been throughout history that what you later agree on is the best and the most important, was perceived as unpleasant and bad when it was presented for the first time. Thus, there can be a contrast between innovation and audience integration, and in particular such ‘slope’ arts as modern dance. That's why my call to the Minister of Culture is that one more looks a little more nuanced on the relationship between quantity and quality, and does not place as much emphasis on audience attendance as it has now. That also applies to Carte Blanche. Then I have a question about Young Riks. Young Riks are now being proposed for closure. This has led to a storm among youth, which should be the first to know how Young Riks has given them an understanding of the theatre and led to a magical meeting between youth and the actors. In other words, they say that this has an incredible amount to say for its theater interest. Does the Minister of Culture think that it is taking youth and their cultural interest seriously when they have not been heard at all in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e935	I was so fascinated by the representative Valle's introduction, that I had hoped that the question had come there. But it didn't. In terms of quality and quantity, I just want to say, of course, that it can't be that all the quality assessments are going to be about whether you reach so many and so many. It's just a little bit of what we're concerned about, that we're going to be able to satisfy all of the cultural expressions, and that it has a value in itself. I agree with Valle that the innovative often doesn't have the audience appeal that the traditional has, and it's not going to make it any less valuable for that reason. I'm busy with contemporary art, and I'm going to look forward to seeing how we can ensure that we take care of that field well. In the case of Young Riks, on which the question was raised, it was, as the representative Valle is familiar with, a scheme that applied to five counties, and at a relatively high cost. We could have said that, ideally, we should have managed to expand this offer to all the states. We did not find that economically sound within the framework we had, but we have tried to preserve the centrality of this through a national system. And what we're adding up to is, as you'll be familiar with, the Rikstheater is more focused on setting up its work against children and young people. I have myself had in my office representatives from counties who, with enormous enthusiasm and commitment, have rejoiced over the Young Riks. And it hurts me so much that we have to find other ways of fixing this effort. But as I said, we couldn't defend maintaining the system for only five states. But this is a field that we have to attend to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e944	I had originally not intended to take a line at the council, but her response to the reply from Sandberg when it came to NRK and district TV, made me a little uncertain about what conclusion you could actually draw from what she said. I would therefore ask that she clarify a little more what's in it. She said the NRK would come back with her vision, and the Stortinget would be briefed. I would like the Council of State to state that the starting point for what the NRC is about to do is to establish district television in Eastfold and Northland. I would like that confirmation, so that we have the same reality of the starting point for the NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e949	It is clear from documents from Stortinget in the past that Eastfold and Nordland must also be properly covered. It is repeated in the setting now, and that is of course the starting point that has been taken – and will be taken – in our dialogue with the NRK. Then we have to find arrangements that are economically sound and that ensure that everyone in the regions we're talking about can actually get what they deserve. We will follow the matter closely with the NRK and otherwise follow the procedure I have shown, that the NRK will report back in the summer, and we will report back to Stortinget. But the intention here is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e954	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e957	There's something strange about cultural debates in Norway. Today, too, we have had a debate on the profile of individual parties in cultural policy and also the priorities, but it turns out that most of the priorities and profiles are probably laid down for pressure and lobbying by people and organisations outside the house. The last example is Norwegian film. At first one had done a so-called cut, but after experiencing massive criticism from the film environment, the politicians turn 180 degrees, and not only turn them in relation to the 20 million, they also increase the commitment. People within this environment start a demonstration outside the house here, a massive demonstration that certainly costs a lot of resources, and they get through. This is proof to me that those who have the best contacts, and who may already have the most important transfers and resources, are receiving cultural resources, and that in the future we will also experience that organization, that the same and the strongest groups and organisations that receive most of these funds, as my colleague, Mr Bredvold, mentioned earlier today. What is the problem is that the political majority in some way does not dare to take controversial decisions in fear of getting unfriends in the cultural environment. There is no profile and no priority in relation to cultural policy, is my claim. Then there has been a whole lot of allegations about the Progress Party and the Party's cultural policy, false and unpreachable presentation of our budget, from other representatives. Yes, the Progress Party has put forward a subsidiary proposal within the new framework, just to show the majority in the UK that it is possible to do this differently. So initially, we're going to cut 900 million. kr on our alternative budget, but when we're forced to spend the 900 million, we tell the Storting how we want to use these funds, and then they go to the grassroots and almost the user: half to volunteer teams and organizations and the other half to the municipalities, in which the representative Helleland hung up. Yes, we are earmarking the funds for the municipalities, and we are putting the municipalities to use them for unorganized cultural work in the municipalities for children and young people. We want to do that with the funds. We are also concerned with this matter of freedom of choice. Who is it that creates the greatest freedom of choice for the individual through its alternative budget? – Yes, it must be the Progress Party, which has about DKK 28 billion in tax relief. That means freedom of choice for most people. It allows for freedom of choice, and here right has misunderstood. Right has no profile, right wants to give to all of them, anyway. The progress party has at least one profile: we dare to take the controversial cuts towards the strong groupings within the cultural environment, be it within opera, theatre or anything, we dare to take them. We don't want to be on that dance anymore, that good adults, up-right people, center party people, progress party people are going to be subsidized by thousands of dollars because they're going to a theater show. We want good adults, up-and-coming people to take the costs themselves, and then we'll get to bring cultural resources where there's not a lot of resources already, use them for children and young people and people who have little in the past. This is the profile of the Progress Party in cultural policy. That's why I think it's a little ridiculous when several representatives have in a way made claims that we in the Progress Party are pretty when we allow ourselves to use funds that we initially didn't have. We've just done it to show the Storting that it's fair to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e970	The President is well in doubt that using the word 'laughing' in the description of the opinions of other representatives is in line with good parliamentary expression. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e973	One of the most popular offers in the cultural sector is the public libraries. This is a cultural offer that everyone can take advantage of, because we have managed to maintain the free principle. It is important to give the public good access to books and journals of all kinds. It increases reading interest and ensures good language use and Norwegian as a cultural language. Library services reach far beyond the traditional loan of books in the local library. We have school library, prison library, book buses, book services in hospitals and hospitals, the multilingual library, just to name a few. The number of municipalities that are using mailboxes has increased. The book buses are a good addition to the usual library, but cannot replace the library needs in a municipality, because a modern and forward-looking library contains much more than just books. That is why, in the Labour Party, we are concerned that the proposed allocation to the construction of library facilities is reduced in the draft budget. Approved applications for grants are available for approx. Twenty-seven million. kr from the municipalities. A total of 19 million has been proposed. kr on entry 60, which is mobile library service and library premises. In any case, the mailboxes are a good offer for those who are small mobile. The multilingual library, mentioned by several today, is a department of the Deichman library, and it is a competence centre for linguistic minorities in Norway. The library is nationwide and has books in 37 different languages from around the world. The collections are available to all throughout the country. I am pleased that the Workers' Party has got a majority with the Centre Parties to increase this appropriation by NOK 600 000. Another important objective of the libraries is to provide a good offer to visually impaired people and others with reading difficulties. Studies show that young people read fewer books than before and that reading skills generally go back. It is therefore important to focus on projects aimed at children and young people. One of the main areas of activity in library services is IT-based information. Over 80 pst. public access to the Internet is now provided by public libraries. Libraries can become important centres in the reform of continuing education. The government has announced that it will deliver a big message about libraries, archives and museums. Particular attention will be paid here to access to new technologies. The role of the school libraries will also be assessed in this context. This message is important, and I welcome the fact that such a message is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13.ana.ud920e993	The scheduled time for tomorrow’s meeting is soon to pass. The President proposed that the meeting be suspended and that a new meeting be set at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
