ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e23	President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl and representatives of Laila Kaland, Modulf Aukan, Jan Johnsen, Ingvald Godal and Per Ove Width, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the county of Hedmark: Ida Marie Løvlien, Magnhild Byseth Olrud and Helge Bjørnsen For the Rogaland County: Helga Rullestad For the counties of Sogn and Fjordane: Mathias Råheim For Troms County: Rita H. Roaldsen For Nord-Trøndelag County: Bernt Hågensen and Solveig Åsgard Kleven For South-Trundellag County: Borghild Winsnes Malum For Eastfold County: Roy Vidar Heia From the so-called alternate of Akershus County, Rikke Lind, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the leave of the representative Kjell Engebretsen from 12 October to 14 October due to disease. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. Other alternates of Akershus County, Åge Tovan, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e105	Åge Tovan is present and will take the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 8 October 1999: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 8 October 1999 at 8 a.m. 1100 is determined:The Council of State Anne Enger Lahnstein shall be given, on application, by delegation from office as a member of the King's Council with effect from Friday 8 October 1999 at 2.30 p.m. 1330.State Secretary Åslaug Marie Haga is hereby dismissed from office as Secretary of State at the Prime Minister's Office upon application.State Secretary Åslaug Marie Haga is hereby appointed as a member of the King's Council and is taking over the Administrative Board of the Ministry of Culture with effect from Friday 8 October 1999 at 2.30 p.m. 1330.Statsrådet Odd Roger Enoksen is hereby authorised to act as the Prime Minister’s alternate in the event of a case. If the State Council of Enoksen has also lapsed, the State Council of Reply Haugland and then the State Council of Sponheim act as deputy. If these state councils also fall due, the first of the present members of the Prime Minister's functions is carried out.State Secretary Per Kristian Skulberg continues in office as State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture.» The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes – and considered adopted. The former member of the Government, Anne Enger Lahnstein, takes up his seat as a representative. The request for welfare leave by the representative Anne Enger Lahnstein shall be submitted from the Central Party’s Group of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from 12 October to 12 November. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Tron Erik Hovind, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e144	Tron Erik Hovind is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e149	The President will propose the election of two presidents of the Grand Duchy's meetings on Tuesday and Wednesday – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e154	I propose Aud Blattmann and Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e159	Aud Blattmann and Asmund Kristoffersen are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Aud Blattmann and Asmund Kristoffersen are unanimously elected presidents of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings. Councillor Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa exceeded 1 kg. proposition [[see Unit]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e164	The representative Per Roar Bredvold will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e168	On behalf of Per Sandberg and myself, I have the honour of handing over a Document No. 8 proposals for better coordination of public instruments in the field of culture.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e173	The representative, Petter Løvik, will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e176	On behalf of the representatives Jan Petersen, Inge Wohnning and myself, I would like to make a proposal to stimulate the recruitment of lecturers for the further education through improvements in the funding for further education. I also have the honour of presenting a proposal from the representatives of Jan Petersen, Inge Wohnning and myself for measures to strengthen the basic school's youth.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e183	The representative Steinar Bastisen will also make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e186	I have a proposal that I would like to make, which is that Norwegian citizens who have been living abroad for more than five years are given full rights in popular security when they return to Norway, like immigrants and asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e191	The proposals put forward will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e201	Following a conference with the group leaders, the president will propose that the debate be organised as follows: The debate is held over two days, today and tomorrow, with a total speaking time of 7 hours and 55 minutes, excluding cord changes and 3-minute posts. The number-time is distributed as follows: Working Party 190 minutes, Progress Party and Christian People's Party 70 minutes each, Right 65 minutes, Center Party 30 minutes, Socialist Left Party 25 minutes, Left 15 minutes and Twist Party 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of the political groups and the Prime Minister and three lines with replies after speakers with 10 minutes of speaking time or more, as well as after the speeches of the Councils regardless of their length within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e216	I want to start with something that was not mentioned in the census, but that at the beginning of a new hundred years is one of the greatest challenges, that of preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons. In the near future, the US Senate will decide whether to ratify the agreement prohibiting nuclear weapons testing – the so-called test stop agreement. It is unclear whether there is a majority in the Senate for ratification of the agreement. If the test stop contract does not work, it could have dramatic consequences for the disarmament work. It could launch a new nuclear race, with more and more countries becoming participants. My generation feared that the two superpowers would trigger a global nuclear war. Today's youth will be able to experience that countries run by despots or terrorist groups can hold the world hostage with nuclear bombs. We, who grew up in the shadow of the threat from nuclear weapons, want children and young people to start the new millennium in another way, with less fear and greater faith in the future. It is therefore incomprehensible that the World’s leading nuclear power Senate does not take the historic step that can prevent nuclear weapons from coming into the hands of ever more people. Norway, which is responsible for distributing the Nobel Peace Prize, must have its vote heard and request the US Senate to ratify the agreement. The Nobel Peace Prize was awarded for the first time at the entrance of this century. At that time there was a great optimism in the world. The two military alliances drew close to each other and went into disintegration. There was talk of lasting peace in the nation's concert, but it wasn't going to be more than 14 years before World War I broke out. The reason was that there were no international institutions or binding agreements between countries that could ensure that the optimism created could be maintained. We know that World War I triggered World War II. World War II created the cold war that led to hundreds of wars, especially in developing countries. But postwar politicians also drew important lessons from the many tragedies of the century. Strong and committed cooperation was established at both European and global level to prevent history from continuing on the same track. This speaks for the fact that the new century that is about to begin can be different and better than what we leave. But we don't have to take anything for granted. Peace must be won by ever-new generations. New challenges need to be met – such as the danger that environmental damage can make the planet uninhabitable to more and more people, and the poverty problem that lies there as an unexplored bomb. We also need to be guided by a capitalism that seems to be getting stronger and more unpredictable. I feel an obligation to start the last centenary debate in this century by pointing out that we must not let the inaction and the indifference spread in relation to the big questions. The biggest challenge today’s politicians have is to create hope for young people — hope that they can manage and get control of the problems. The message of the right hand side as we know it all over the world, that we should leave most of it to market forces, is the same thing as giving up. This attitude also had many hundreds of years ago, when the world was in as deep a technological and industrial revolution as it is now. At that time, too, the free market forces created large class divisions and international tensions. But it turned out to be possible to build a democratic counterweight against this brutal capitalism. The welfare state was built up. People were granted rights as equivalent people. This is the big question again at the turn of the century: how to get more democratic governance, and how to distribute more fairly within each country and between countries on earth? It's obvious that we need more international governance. But it's also obvious that we need a bolder political commitment nationally. I have to allow myself to say that the central parties that were in opposition were the strongest speakers in order for us not only to adapt passively, are the ones that are doing just that. What's going on? The enterprise by enterprise is sold out of the country. In the financial sector, the market is taking initiatives for new solutions. The state sits passively as owner and looks at. Norway has a lot of money, but we soon have nothing. The state's capital can be used together with private capital to ensure national ownership of important industry and finance in the global economy we are now in, but the government is passive. The differences are big. We know that the reason is that they've made a lot of money on the rise in the 1990s. But there's not going to be a single suggestion to do anything about it. We know that training is necessary both for Norway to be part of the global knowledge economy and for us to avoid even greater differences between people in the future. But in this situation, the government virtually stops the huge investment in education we've had in Norway for the last ten years. We play our chances if we don't take action to prevent Norway from being sold out piece by piece. We play our opportunities if we let the industry sail its own sea. The Government of Bondevik’s draft State budget for 2000 confirms that Norway is in the midst of a growth break. Five years of growth in employment was broken in 1999. Employment in industry has fallen since the second quarter of 1998. Parts of the workshop industry stop because it was not seized in time. No funds are allocated to labour market measures that may result in a breakdown being used for anything other than a purely open-ended period. Termination at our yard, where there are decades of acquired competence, should be used to build new competences, not to leave. Managing Director of Telenor, Stig Herbern, says the following: « Towards the end of the current year, telecommunications and IT are expected to pass the automotive industry in size. Then you are facing the largest and most growing industry in the world. ... Personally, I am very concerned that Norway is able to maintain a minimum of industry in this sector. This is the industry we're going to live on in the next hundred years. That's why it bothers me that we encounter little understanding of what this turning point is, and what opportunities we're about to play." Yes, we're playing out our opportunities if we don't continue the strong commitment to education we've had. Other countries don't take a break. They're not waiting for us. Municipalities must be given the opportunity to invest in the school. Universities and higher education institutions are in trouble if the government budget appropriations remain as they are. We play out our opportunities and weaken the glue in the welfare community if we don't do anything concrete now to counteract the differences in society. The frustration, the sense that poor people have of seeing that many can live in ever greater abundance while they themselves are not allowed to live their lives in freedom, dreams and hope that is not realized is destructive to society. We know what the 21st century will require: a knowledge-based economy, people who can master the new technology, people who can cooperate and people who realize that they are dependent on others to succeed. Every human being is born with a talent – a potential. Every human being who uses his talent and liberates his potential contributes to the country's well-being. That's why the struggle for equivalency becomes the most important thing of the 21st century. At the same time, we create by distributing fairly. Equally, we create by investing in education for everyone — children, young people and adults. Then everyone can use their talent – triggering their potential. This is the great challenge of the 21st century. The new technology is putting the human being in the center. Information technology cannot function without people with knowledge, who can also share knowledge with others, in cooperation with others. Without trust and direct influence on each individual person, there is currently no good way to run any type of business – whether private or public. Responsibility has to be pushed downwards in order to trigger the talent and creativity of each person. Cooperation is needed to link all the knowledge to one whole and to make all the complicated technology intertwine. This will have an impact on all areas of society — politics, the public sector and the business community, where there has been the greatest reorganization. People must have more direct influence in the political parties. Municipalities must release detailed government control and control to the advantage of triggering local self-government. We're not going beyond a reform of the county level. Too many resources go into double bureaucracy and much unnecessary control. This is not part of the information society. Welfare enterprises — schools, hospitals and older people’s institutions — need to change. Employees need more responsibility, and customers need to be offered services that are more tailor-made precisely for them, for each individual's needs. The public has to meet people differently because people are different. What this is about is whether we should be able to maintain strong community and collective governance even into the information age. People don't want the state to rule from top to bottom when the rest of society goes the other way. People will buy themselves out of public welfare services and into private offerings, if they are not taken seriously by the public. We do not want such a development – we want to call about the public community, collective governance into a reality that is more marked by individual needs and greater individual responsibility. There must be new will and new perspectives into the policy – the will for governance and will for distribution, the will for change. The Labour Party is now looking at an opening in order to turn policy into a more active track, especially in the distribution policy. All the bourgeois parties said before the elections in 1997 that the country had to have a new government. The working party was blamed for the increased differences in society. These parties came forward at the election, and they got a majority in Stortinget. The working party went back. The country had to have a new government. Now it seems that this image can change. The central parties now say that they prefer to cooperate with the Workers' Party. Some of them even say that only with the Workers' Party the country can get a fairer distribution. That opening will be used by the Workers' Party. We will examine whether it is possible to turn the policy into the direction of the Workers' Party. That's why we wanted, and we've been given, talks with the Prime Minister to see if there's any basis for starting negotiations between the Labour Party and the Central Parties on next year's government budget. Such a meeting has taken place. At this meeting, the Labour Party stated that such negotiations must be based on: that those who have the most must contribute more to the community that those who have the least need to make it easier for municipalities to have one billion more, so that they can do the school effort that everyone has put into and talk about that universities and colleges get more money for kindergartens and school leisure arrangements are cheaper for parents to build 1000 student cabins and several youth rental homes next year's Labour Party action towards industry can be implemented The Labour Party does not have a majority on Stortinget. We have therefore restricted ourselves to taking some important steps away from the right-wing direction that has shaped the policy until now in this process of enlargement. In return, we want to insist that these steps are taken, otherwise there is no intention that the Workers' Party should be involved in any kind of agreement. Two billion more in taxes for people with large capital incomes is not much when we know that the yield in terms of dividends and gains is several tens of billions a year. One billion more to the municipalities will have to do if you're to see people in the eyes with some decency after the election campaign that was held, where everyone was talking about education and school. It's the municipalities that have to do just that. Student cabins simply have to be built. We haven't missed it since we've had 60,000 new students in the country in the last few years. The kindergarten prices have to go down, because we want the kindergartens to be for the many, not just for the few. And we don't get enough people to, among other things. care for the elderly if we do not have kindergartens. Already today, thousands of help nurses and nurses are missing, and it is becoming worse as there are more and more older people. Norwegian policy can't stand any more broken promises. If the submitted state budget is adopted as it is, there will be many new broken promises. The working party will help to prevent this from happening. The Workers' Party will contribute to making the most of it, being put on the agenda, provided that the Centre Parties are serious about what they have said, that they want a fairer distribution. It must be at the bottom of any agreement with us. The writer Erlend Loe writes in his latest book «L»: "I'm just here. Trying to be nice. Looking for something to build. What should I build? Everything is already in place.’ Then he ends up calling his generation – he's only 30 years old – «we who didn't build the country». We politicians have a great obligation to prevent this attitude from breaking, because it is so much to build and rebuild at the entrance of a new century. That's why we have to get young people to believe that it works. And then we have to keep our mouths shut. Youth will not believe in politics if we do not manage to do anything about the hopeless conditions in the housing market they face. They won't believe us if we're not able to do the most necessary thing in the information age: continue the effort on education for everyone. On the other hand, if they see that such tasks are solved, they will also be convinced that something can be done about the major global problems. It is necessary at the entrance of a new century. The Labour Party has, through this century, been emboldened by the belief that it is possible to rule. Man creates his own story. We're taking this control-optimism into a new century. Political governance is more necessary than ever. We have believed that social justice is both necessary and possible. We also keep that faith in the new century. It is not right that everyone has done the same thing, as the Right claims. It's given all of the more possibilities. That's why we want the smoothing women to paint into the next century as well. We will continue to build strong communities here at home as well as internationally. When the Berlin Wall fell, many thought that history had come to an end. It was very unlikely that anything new could happen to her. Capitalism had won. The United States was left as the only superpower. But there's been so much on these 10 years that we'd almost think we'd lived for 50 years. And much more is going to come to her. No one at the end of a century has been able to predict what is going to happen in the next century. Neither can we. But at least one thing I can say with certainty on behalf of the Workers' Party: The fight for social justice and international cooperation and solidarity must and will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e339	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e342	In parts of the post of the head of the Workers' Party there were signals of new tones and rethinking in the Workers' Party. It has also emerged from Thorbjørn Jagland earlier. But I miss the practical and concrete follow-up of the Workers' Party in a number of areas in adapting to the new times. Now Thorbjørn Jagland suddenly – and it was a pleasure – talked about customers, customers in public services, such as education services, health services and elderly care services. He stressed that it was the individual needs that had to be satisfied by the public service providers. And that must mean that there must also be different offers, because as he said, people are different. But for 15 years, the Progress Party has been working for freedom of choice in schools, health services and care for the elderly, where the individual should be a customer. For example, in the care of the elderly, if you are dissatisfied with the service provider you have, you should be able to choose another one, and the government grants should follow the patient, follow the student, follow the sick one until the person who wants to and who can meet the individual needs, which are different, as I told you. But the Labour Party has always fought against it. When can we expect the Workers' Party to follow concretely the principle views expressed by the Workers' Party's leader, when the Workers' Party has so far in practice opposed exactly what Jagland is now talking about later? And a little additional question: will this bet, among other things: in school, could go through an increase in the purchasing power of Norwegian municipalities of 0.5 pst.? Is it the 0.5 pst. increment that should be the major response to public service challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e355	What Carl I. Hagen now addressed is an important question, which I also touched on. But here we may also find the most important distinction in Norwegian policy now between us and the two right parties, namely, how should personal freedom of choice be expressed. The Progress Party wants to develop private offerings everywhere in relation to public services. So what you're saying is that people should be able to use their private purchasing power to buy out of the public services -- buy themselves out of school, buy themselves out of the old institutions, buy themselves out of the hospitals. But from other countries, we know that this leads to a two-fold division of well-being, that is. that there will be poor well-being for those who cannot afford to buy out and an increasingly better well-being for those who can afford to buy out. What we want is that the public offers should be so good – and that they should also meet the needs of individuals – that you do not have to buy out of the community. We want a strong community. Here I realize that we disagree. There's a big principal distinction between the left-hand side and the right-hand side -- it's always done that. But I think it'll be much more expressed in the future now, because the question is whether we have the ability and the willingness to take care of the good community services we have, and make them even better, so that they can be for everyone, and that we don't get offers just for a few. When has the Workers' Party done anything about this? Yes, for example. In the introduction to the new school curriculum, it says that the school now has to meet the students differently because they are different. A whole new principle has been laid for the school. We are now going to go in to get free revenues of NOK 1 billion, not earmarked appropriations that are becoming more and more, which are in line with what I said in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e364	In Dagbladet on 29 September there was an interesting article by the Labour Party leader, Thorbjørn Jagland, "Snow Pyramids", where he is going through a number of important features of social development, and also draws the lines forward. That's what I thought was interesting reading, because it shows that Iland here is in charge of a series of new steps that are not necessarily in the extension of well-known labour party policies, whether in the areas of red tape, deregulation or the vitalisation of local self-government. At the same time, I am looking for a red thread in the new orientation of the Labour Party leader, a value anchor that can vitalise known concepts of the movement of labour such as ‘freedom’, ‘equality’ and ‘brotherhood’, and repatriation of important Community values lost during the construction of the welfare state. Instead of answering these basic questions, unfortunately, Thorbjørn Jagland continues his black paint and description of the misery of the situation, which in no way matches reality. The truth is that we have a high level of employment in the country, we have a falling interest rate, we have a stable economy, and the government has addressed the important challenge of balancing the differences between the high-wage and low-wage income groups – a difference that has evolved as long as the Workers' Party has managed this country over the 1990s. The Government has now also presented comprehensive health plans to which it wishes to join the Stortinget. We want to move on. We want to ensure value creation and employment, and we want to return to important Community values. Now the Workers' Party is given a very golden opportunity to be first on the track together with the Centre Parties to secure these important values.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e371	The last thing I'm glad is that there's going to be an opportunity, but only the negotiations can show if there's going to be any of that. I think Steensnæs is right in saying that the grips I talked about here, which underlie our new programme discussion, are not necessarily an extension of the grips and traditional policies of the Workers' Party. But I don't think any party can hold on to the same old grips that you had in this century. I am glad that the Workers' Party is actually going ahead here and seeing that there has to be a new grip. And I can admit that there is a lack of concreteity here, but it's going to take the form of more reforms, but it's necessary that we now at the entrance of a new century and in the last centenary debate in this century talk a little bit about what's actually about to happen. The red thread's there. It is short and good that the Workers' Party will continue to strengthen the fight for social justice. That is absolutely necessary. And we will build on the Community idea, that is, every human being needs to belong to a community. We must have strong communities also into the next century. Even if there were to be an agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties, I think you have to assume that the Workers' Party will be critical as long as we are in opposition. It needs any government. And it must not be characterized as black paint by those who sit and rule. They need someone to look at what's going on, right, Lars Sponheim? [[Laughter]] Excuse me, President, I was supposed to go through the President, but I'm thinking that the Left has a tradition of wanting social criticism. [[Laughter]] So we're dealing with the big differences now. There's nothing the government has done. We hope that something can be done through the negotiations to be held.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e382	With the rather frame salty description that Thorbjørn Jagland gave of the central government's policy, there are no small ambitions he has for the changes in the budget he wants, and the influence he wants through the budget. It's probably ambitions that are greater than the demands he has actually promoted, in so far as I remember, he denies the possibility of criticism later, by clarifying that the budget he agrees with the Government, he's going to put himself fully behind the whole period. Now it's not the first time that there's a certain lack of consistency between Jagland's principal positions and what he's doing in practice – so we're now going to see how this works. His own post also carries the bids for part of this lack of conformity. For example, he is attacking differences created by a tax system that has not least been behind the Workers' Party, and he was concerned that businesses are disappearing abroad, while his contribution is through tax changes to make it more difficult to keep these businesses in Norway. So here's a struggle between life and learning at Jagland. But what I wanted to ask him about is this: when the Workers' Party gave up the government power in 1997, because it was so difficult to get to a centre-worker's party-cooperation from the government offices, what has happened since he applied for the same cooperation, but now from the Stortinget? Has he misjudged the effect of the main obstacle to cooperation, namely the cash support? Has the centre become more corroborating, more responsible? Has adult education worked, is that why he is now seeking a center/worker's party-cooperation, or is it simply because he needs to re-enter morals in a party where morality is at zero?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e391	First I have to say that Jan Petersen must have misunderstood a little about the relationship between demands and ambitions. Obviously, we have more ambitions than the demands, but we see that there is a majority in the UK that is opposed to the Labour Party's policy. What we're trying to set up is to get as much as possible. And then we get to put ourselves at a level that makes it realistic to negotiate about it, and that's what we've done. We will – if there is an agreement – sign that agreement and stand for that agreement, and not do as the Right has done, participate in an agreement, vote subsidiaryly and attack it afterwards. But we are not going to defend more than what is in the agreement – it must be clear. Then Petersen says that there is no agreement between principled attitudes and practical policies. After all, it's better to have some principles, then, than not having it! [[Laughter]] Then to the main question. I'll take this one more time for Jan Petersen. What's happened? Well, it's happened that the center parties now suddenly say that it's the Workers' Party that can help create a fairer distribution in the country. It's something new. For the main problem for the Workers' Party was that it was not possible to have any proper distribution because you only had overburden and paid out money, and in addition, you forced through tax changes that we thought were totally unsocial. Then a message is made about inequalities in society, where it is said exactly what we had claimed, that the reason for the increased differences was the increased capital income in the 1990s. But what the big crowd had done was to make it easier for that grouping. Now, if you've come to the opposite conclusion, that you have to do something here, there's a new political situation for the Workers' Party that we're trying to exploit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e400	Thorbjørn Jagland put, not surprisingly, great emphasis on the distribution policy in his contribution. We in the Centre Party think that is positive. And there is also reason to note with interest that the Workers' Party, in its budgetary negotiating arrangements, wants to commit itself to cooperation with the government parties on, as it says, a follow-up to the expanse message. However, when Igland chooses such a critical approach and such a critical attitude towards the central parties in terms of the distribution policy, it must be allowed to remind the leader of some realities that relate to precisely the distribution policy. The exaggeration message that Jagland is now placing so much emphasis on, did not initially want the Workers' Party as the Center Party intervened on Difference Norway in the spring of 1996. I also have to remind you that the increased differences documented by the Equalisation Communication are differences that have occurred in the 1990s until 1997, i.e. in the period when the Labour Party had largely the government responsibility. Finally, it must also be possible to recall that, in the case of perhaps the most important equalisation action that has taken place during this period, the strong increase in the 1998 budget of the minimum pensioners – they received an increase of 18 pst. – voted against the Labour Party. As I said, it is positive that this is now being put on the agenda and that this will be an important theme in budgetary negotiations. However, Iland should agree with us that the starting point for this debate and these negotiations should be that the differences that have been created have greatly contributed to the Workers' Party. Now that we're going to try together to reduce these differences, is an ambitious goal that I hope the Workers' Party will enter into with life and soul.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e410	I have to take this point by point. That the Workers' Party did not want to send out the message, it was not because we did not want to try out, but it was because we thought that it was not necessary to send this out on the hike, we could do something right away. We could have done something in the budget for 1998, we could have done something in the budget for 1999, and we can do something in the budget for the year 2000 to send out the forecast. We knew what the situation was. But the fact is, you're now trying to push this even further. It has been said that no tax intervention can be done until you have dealt with the defrosting message. If it goes through, one has been able to suspend intervention in the policy of equalisation for three years by means of the Equalisation Communication. First, waiting for it to come, and then waiting for it to be dealt with, while, in reality, you should have gone to concrete tax decisions to get a smoothing out. So Jacobsen says that the differences that the notification documents have arisen while the Workers' Party had government. Yes, but it's very much because of the large number of people who went against us, who gave them great relief with capital income. We were against this, and that was one of the main reasons why we found it impossible to continue to control. But that's not the only reason, I have to admit it. It is clear that there has been an underlying development in society that we also have to take responsibility for not being so in time. But at least we didn't go in the opposite direction, as the center part was in the mass mass. I totally agree that now we have to leave the story behind. We've documented a common ground, and then we're going to do something about it when the tax decisions are going up here in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e423	I would like to begin by congratulating the Labour Party leader, Thorbjørn Jagland, on a good contribution. I got into thinking sometimes where I sat on the bench that it almost sounded like a government statement in between. And in SV we fully agree with many of the things that Igland raises. There is a need for a political majority in the United Kingdom to put some of the big questions on the agenda and to work systematically to change course. That's why we don't get in SV sour when the Workers' Party gets involved in distribution policy. I get a little tired of many of the things that SV said before the big tax reform was adopted turns out to be voting – the differences are increasing. We have submitted differences reports that have shown that differences have increased for years. But we don't get mad when a large number of people start to agree with SV that we have to do something. What's the challenge is to say, OK, there's a majority, can we reverse a development? And that's the big question about distribution, the environment, the security policy, and whether we can replace the oil economy with a knowledge-based economy at the start of a new millennium. We simply have to take a course in the policies that are adopted and that apply to most people, who tolerate daylight in 10 years and in 20 years, and who show that we have done the job that makes our kids take on something better than what we got. And there we are not per. today. Now for two years we have had a situation with a government that has planned for half a day at a time, and that, to the extent that it has got through its affairs, has been dependent on Carl I. Hagen's day form and moods. The question now is whether, through the new ambition for cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Centre, we are about to move on to a new track. My question to Jagland will then be: will a budgetary settlement between the Workers' Party and the Centre of the Fall form the basis for a majority constellation out these two years until the next major elections in 2001?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e434	At least I fully agree that we should get into a new track and a more active track. The Labour Party sees an opportunity to turn the centre of gravity of our policy in our direction. The fact is, so far, you've cooperated with the two right parties. This has led to a policy that we have not agreed on. If it changes, it would be the best thing that could do for her. But it is not possible to say that until we have had real negotiations. We've said from where we stand, and we haven't decided to take the big steps. We don't see that as possible with the majority that's in Stortingen right now. But the steps that we have taken must be taken, because otherwise it has no purpose. Then it'll just be nonsense out of it all. Then we join in on something that we have no interest in being part of, and that does not create anything new. A new track and a new centre of gravity must be created. What it will then lead to in addition to the ageing period and towards the collapse choice, it's not up to me to answer. I don't think it's possible to answer that now, and it might not be desirable to answer that either. The important thing is that some steps are taken and a new direction is taken at the year's budgetary procedure, and then we'll see what happens. But I have repeatedly said on behalf of the Workers' Party – and it received unanimous support at the Workers' Party's last national meeting – that it is desirable to get into a situation of majority government, and that the Workers' Party has opened for the first time to form a coalition with other parties. Such an option does not now exist. What's possible after the big shot, it's hard to say anything about it. Now, I think we have to deal with the very practical issues and see if we can get the policy into a different path using that method.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e441	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e444	This year's census follows what is normal for languages of the throne, and after a careful study, I can't really see that there are any surprises or plans from the Government to address the modernisation of Norway in line with what is happening in many other countries. No reforms are announced, no changes to meet the problems of the next millennium, but to be honest, I really would not have expected from the sitting government, which has continued the existence as a kind of main guideline, and then look at the initiatives that come from others, which it has to decide on. What is therefore more interesting, however, is the development of the Workers' Party, because, as we have it in Norwegian policy, the key is whether we in Norway should also start modernising with the return of power and responsibility to individuals and the introduction of a much greater degree of freedom of choice for individuals by recognising that the value of individuals is of great importance. In this way I have previously been confirmed by Thorbjørn Jagland from this pulpit that he fully shares the views of English Prime Minister Tony Blair and German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder, who was launched in a very important political document on the spring side. There is now a discussion in Germany as to whether this third path is the right one, because it actually introduces a significant degree of market liberalism solutions that have long been addressed by the Progress Party in Norwegian policy. It was exciting to read Jagland's chronicle in the newspaper «Snu Pyramids». But as I said in my reply, when is the Workers' Party going to follow up the views of Jagland in round forms? That is what some of us are waiting for, that we take the consequences of the slogans and views through practical policies. Let me go into a couple of elements of this article. When it comes to school policy, which, for me, is very important, he says: ‘The expenditure of each municipality is per capita. Students in primary school vary from about 29 000 in the municipality that spends at least EUR 115000 in the one who spends the most.’ It has to be something that's obviously wrong somewhere, when the difference is from 29,000 to 115,000 per. student. Then there must be great opportunities for rationalisation gains — likely to use the least, too little, but you can get to some middle tree. So, Jagland says about this: ‘School must provide much more education on individual pupils’ premises.’ It has been claimed by the Progress Party through approx. a 15-year period: freedom of choice for each student in terms of school, greater freedom for each school to design its own offer based on what is important for the students applying for it. And Jagland writes: ‘I have been told that in the school sector there are 18 control bodies from each school up to the department. How much resources and creativity is not lost on the road?’ Then we need a school reform following the pattern of the Progress Party has fought for: Greater responsibility for the individual school, greater responsibility for the students to choose, greater opportunities for the decentralization of power. This is quite according to Tony Blair's pattern, but this has so far been voted against by Jagland. I'm waiting for agreement between statements and votes in this room. In the case of the elderly care sector, Igland writes: ‘In some municipalities, elderly people in need of care who live at home for 10 hours of help per week. In other municipalities, over 100 hours are given. The proportion of one with income of around NOK 100000 varies from 50 to 1000.’» Why, then, is the Workers' Party opposed to what is our solution, namely a state direct financing, when it is revealed that there are huge differences in municipalities? We will no longer accept this discrimination against the elderly who are in need of care. We want equality, and then we have to have a state responsibility. And now I think Thorbjørn Jagland must stop spreading lies about his political competitors. It is not the private wallet to manage whether you are receiving the necessary care services or school services. It is public funding that must follow up. If a user or customer is dissatisfied with the stay in a nursing home, he/she shall be entitled to move to another, which should, of course, have been assessed and approved in accordance with detailed rules. First, the user – the customer – is placed in the high seat. It shall not be the private wallet, but it shall be the public funds that go to the school, to the elderly care provider and to the nursing home that each user chooses. That is the consequence of the fine words that Iland uses, but which he does not follow up in practice. So it's a pleasure that Jagland says: ‘A natural consequence of the technological revolution we are in is also to discuss the future of the county and county.’ It's taken several of us for many, many years. But we have concluded that we want to wind up the county council, which is a completely unnecessary organisational element in Norway. I wonder when also Jagland actually takes the consequences of the practical policies of the things he is talking about in general. So Thorbjørn Jagland writes in this chronicle: ‘We may experience that in a few years’ time we will have to import electricity from Dutch gas power plants that get its gas in pipes from Norway. Then we have put ourselves in a ridiculous situation both as an industrial nation and as an environmental nation. And the blame must be placed on depraved politicians." Why couldn't he write the truth? The blame must be placed on defying politicians from the Labour Party and myself! The Party of Progress has been ready for many years to take the necessary decisions to authorise the construction of gas power plants. The Labour Party is responsible for this. It is the Workers' Party that has defyed politicians. I see, of course, also in this context away from the government parties, which I do not expect to bring about any modernisation in any area. But when the Labour Party leader criticizes others, he should really criticize himself. If the Workers' Party wanted to, the expansion of gas power plants would already be under way. Then there has been talk – also from Jagland – about housing policy and student housing. It has something to do with how we use our land. The problem is the lack of land for housing. In Oslo, at least one meter of land will cost 1 million. kr, and some more than that. When we see how we use the soil, I want to connect this to agricultural policy, because these are pretty interesting calculations. The obsolete agricultural policy cannot be expected to change the Central Party and the Government. It is the Workers' Party that has the key to a modernised agricultural policy, and to use our land resources in a way that provides the best returns. For example, if you produce 400 kg of barley, as usual, on 1 measure of cultivated land, it has a value of NOK 764. If we turn this into meat, it becomes 100 kilograms of meat. These 100 kg meats are now selling the agricultural to the rest of the world for approx. So $7, and then you get a value of $700. If you sell it to a normal slaughterhouse for Norwegian consumption, where you have to pay a lot more, you can get NOK 3000. If the area on which it grows today in the Sørkedalen or elsewhere, had been set aside for plots, we would have a return of 70,000 kroner if the plot value was 1 million. kr and you calculated 7 pst. interest rate. This is what needs to be done in order to have more housing — few areas for housing, so that those with difficulties in establishing themselves, especially young people at the start-up stage, have the opportunity to obtain housing. I have noticed that the government says that once they have finally found a dwelling, they probably have such good advice that you can increase the house tax by another 10 p.m., which is obviously a mockery of all those who are in the establishment phase. I mentioned the energy sector. Norway is calling for a structural change. We have well over 100 companies doing this. We do not need more than five-six energy producers and energy networks after we got the new Energy Act. This sector calls for structuralisation, with the release of labour to other sectors known to be problematic. The working party maintains the obsolete concession scheme and the right of repatriation instead of contributing to a modern base rate tax system that also depends on the price. I'm waiting for the Workers' Party to modernise its energy policy. I also allow myself to mention a proposal we will make in the case of gas: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the production of electricity in Norway based on continental cap gas’. Then Igland can be allowed to show that he is now starting to become powerful by voting for it. Let me also mention that Norway is facing challenges of integrating our immigrants. We have had a TV 2 ‘State of the Kingdom’ programme that has revealed dramatic cultural differences and dramatic effects on young Norwegian citizens. That's something the other parties really wanted, and it's actually in the throne of the Government: ‘The government will review Norway’s obligations towards national minorities and discuss how we can ensure a level playing field for social participation and preservation of language and culture.’ The party of progress has always been deeply in disagreement with this. We see no reason for us to contribute to the preservation of the culture revealed by the ‘State of the Kingdom’ programme in the field of forced marriage and the abuse of young Norwegian citizens. I would like to make three proposals in this regard, to which I come back. It is interesting to note, however, that in at least two areas the Workers' Party comes with sensible things. Firstly, there is the requirement for guidelines on the regulation of the basic amount of population protection. After all, the Progress Party was alone in the social security settlement of the spring party to enter in order to regulate the basic amount in line with the general trend in income. Everyone voted against it. Now, in its document entitled to the Government, the Labour Party has put forward a proposal on the same subject, and I am going to put forward a proposal that is correct to the demands of the Workers' Party, so that we can take it out of the negotiations by simply adopting it in the Stortinget, and that it comes automatically. We can do the same to secure a low-paid entitlement to sick pay from 1 January 2000. Because that's also something that we've always been in favour of. So, at the end of his speech, Jagland said that the Workers' Party would be on the agreement that might be reached on the budget. After all, the entire budget is the subject of the agreement, because the head of the Workers' Party has made it quite clear that the Workers' Party will not promote its own draft budget for voting, but will cooperate with the government parties on the whole budget. And then, of course, the Workers' Party is also responsible for the entire financial arrangement for the year 2000. It means, in practice, that the Workers' Party, in the economic and political sense, will become a supporting party for the Government. Of course, it will be very much appreciated by the President-in-Office, because then there will be no piles of question-time questions from workers' party representatives about things that have to do with economic policy, which have to do with the budget, and lack of appropriations in one area or another. And there will be much less work for the Government, because the Workers' Party will be responsible for the entire economic policy, as it has been made clear that no alternative proposal will be promoted. It will then be impossible to distinguish between the economic policy of the Workers' Party and that of the Government, because they will be merged into a unit. This is the big and dramatic change – and I agree with Mr Jagland – in relation to what happened in the previous two years, when the Right and the Advance Party, through subsidiary voting, secured the country a budget that we said in many areas was not in agreement with, and that we did not like, but in order to ensure a budget. So the Labour Party is now in favour of, if it becomes a negotiated solution, a rather different line. But I still have little faith that there will be such a negotiated solution. I find it difficult to see that the Workers' Party will actually take the role of a loyal supporting party in all economic policies of the sitting government, because then it will of course be more difficult to run election campaigns next time. And there is also reason to believe that it is not certain that this will lead to the leadership debate in the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e530	The president thanked Hagen for her work. But the president can assure her that she will be able to cope with the scale that will be needed, whether it be an agreement or not. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e535	Of course, the advantage of a throne debate is that you can talk about what you want. Carl I. Hagen chose to talk about the Workers' Party, and we might appreciate that. But if you listen to Hagen's message, you might ask the question: What is a political debate? And no less: what is political innovation? Carl I. Hagen frames up a series of suggestions and views that we all know very well. When, on the part of the Labour Party and on the part of the international movement of workers, they try to debate, there are debates based on society and social development where social development is located. Tony Blair's programme to revise the United Kingdom is a radical step forward in relation to the classed United Kingdom that was allowed to evolve over many years. That is why a debate on who in Norway is most in agreement with Tony Blair on individual issues becomes completely meaningless in a political debate. When, for its part, the Workers' Party wants to modernise Norway, among others: In the school sector, Hagen’s answer is: Let the private solutions be available. Let people run around between different institutions with private money in their pocket, instead of building up the school quality that someone needs to solve it. And Hagen should think again about the sick pay scheme for the low-paid, which the Workers' Party proposed in the revised, but which did not go through at that time. Ergo was no majority that the Progress Party could support there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e546	Tom Thoresen asks: what is political innovation? At least, innovation is for me solutions to very clear problems, i.e. solutions other than the existing ways of doing things that you see the negative conditions of. I notice that a lot of the things that have been innovation from the Advancement Party are gradually beginning to be copied by other parties. That's what we think is glittering, and that's what we think is great. The right has copied very, very much. As I've said before, they haven't thought of an independent idea in the last ten years, but they've copied a lot of our policies, among other things. in the field of school policy. But the joy is that what is added to the chronicles of Jagland is a innovation in the Workers' Party that also begins to move in exactly the same direction – that one will find solutions that we have fought for for a long time alone. You have to look at the organisation of the county council and now you see the negative things – we've been saying that for years. It is hoped that more attention will be paid to the interests of users – we have said that for years. It's not even once. There must be something wrong with the perception of working party circles. It's not private money – we want a public, common funding scheme for schools, for health, and for elderly institutions. It should not be private money, but public money, which the Labour Party also accepts in many other areas. Competition is healthy in the production of services and goods, competition causes people to stand on. Why should we not have the same use of public paid services? I can only see that when you sum up a lot of the single items and solutions that Tony Blair stands for in England, it is in line with much of what the Progress Party has been criticising public service production and public laws and regulations for a long time. I think this is glittering. I just wish that the Workers' Party soon began to follow up its rhetoric in the practical policy that is being developed, in terms of laws and regulations and appropriations and ways of organizing society. That's what I'm asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e560	The party of progress is the second largest party in the country. This means that there are expectations that the Progress Party, in the same way as other parties, has clear positions on the major policy areas and challenges we face in the future. We are well aware of the commitment of the Progress Party to health and care policy and family policy, where, moreover, the distance from the Christian People's Party is not disappointing. Then they have a strong commitment to refugee and asylum policy and, to my description, a one-dimensional view of the efforts of the police and the judiciary and of order. But what else? The debate on the throne should be an excellent opportunity for all parties to develop their political views, look ahead and explain the answers that the Progress Party also has to face in relation to key societal challenges, not least on the global issues, which will increasingly fill the political agenda. It concerns the environment, international solidarity, peace and security. But whether we hear this today, too, little or nothing from the Progress Party, and to the extent that we hear something, are the well-known, stuck, predictable views. Now we get regular complaints from the Progress Party and Hagen about the parties' inability to reorient themselves to a new description, a new reality and new challenges. I would like to ask Hagen: can we expect new tones from the Advancement Party when, for example, it does. is the environment and international aid, because this has been more focused in the international community, in line with how many nations are with us and think? Or do we have to be careful with the well-known predictable signals from yesterday?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e565	I would first like to thank the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party for his commendation, for I interpret it as a compliment when he says that on these issues of international relations and the environment, the well-known, firm, predictable views are. In front of those who claim that the Progress Party is angled, it is good to get such a certificate that in this area we are predictable and stand for the same, and we have not seen anything that really provides any basis for any change in our positions internationally. We still see it so that there is no clue that Norway is contributing to great government gifts so that part of the Third World can enrich itself. Mugabe has probably enough money now after he has been able not to bet money on his own people and has received income that he can place, because he has not spent money on the people, and then he has taken the income that is, and placed elsewhere, to himself. That's enough of such examples -- we've seen how it's been war and misery, etc. Had the U.S. aid policy been successful for the last 20-30 years, the aid would not have been necessary anymore, and many claim that it has been more harmful than beneficial. The environment is under very, very much improved. In most areas, the environmental situation is much better than it was 20-30 years ago. Some new theoretical environmental problems have been identified, in which we have little faith, exist as other than reasons for politicians who want to increase taxes and regulations, such as: The CO2 problem, so there's nothing new. But I also allowed myself to say a part of my post about what we want – we want a completely different agricultural policy. We think it should be a purpose for us to get quality goods for Norwegian households for a reasonable money, rather than as today, with too expensive goods. We should transform energy policy, school policy, transport policy, competition policy – policies in a number of areas. We continue to rejoice that we – unfortunately perhaps – have only been ahead of our time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e574	I agree with much of what Hagen said in his main post, not least his fundamental criticism of the Government for the lack of ability to cope with reforming new developments in society – modernising not least the public sector. But it is not just the public sector and the state that is facing modernisation expectations. Also, we as people meet a new society, where minorities, foreign cultures, are no longer something we can look at from the balcony, but are part of our own society. Human vision and what kind of society we're going to have was actually part of this election campaign. Many of us – many politicians – were concerned with the fact that we have to meet new challenges by building bridges, creating an open and inclusive society. In particular, it applies to immigrants — new nationals. Not everyone contributed this way. The proponents of the party were Hedstrøm and Kleppe among those who, in my view, did not contribute. The leader of the party did not distance themselves from their positions, arguments and actions in the election campaign. Two days after the election, the leader of the party said to the evening post that he had done quite ‘more to stop them’ if he had known what he then knew. ‘They’ refers to Kleppe and Hedstrom. My question is, what was it really Carl I. Hagen took a distance from? Was it that there was tactically poor in the election campaign, or were there the positions they claimed he took away from? It would be clarifying whether it was the political substance discussed here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e582	I very much agree with the last Per-Christian Foss said that it would be interesting if this could be about political substance. What were the positions and arguments of Vidar Kleppe and Øystein Hedstrom that were so crazy? That's not who I was talking about. I said that the press took advantage of the fact that they had had two meetings in a well-known right-hand way, where they asked each other questions for an open microphone at a stand-by event – so they started using a form of meeting that Right has been in use for all years – and that the press then exploded in a dramatic outburst. What I took responsibility for was that we should have understood how the press, at least parts of it, would spread in an election campaign with comments and opinions without identifying what they really thought was wrong, just as Per-Kristian Foss now did when he talked about positions and arguments as if it had implicitly been something that has been very wrong. It's an argumentation technique that I don't think is very much above the belt site. If you're going to attack someone, you're going to say what's wrong. But we should have known that our political opponents and parts of the press and the media when it comes to election fighting are not interested in conveying the basis for any attacks, but only come with the attacks. That's what I took responsibility for. And in the case of minorities, where was the majority of this room when we proposed a few years ago to counter forced marriage? The right vote was in favour, but not in favour of the others. When we proposed not to automatically accept the cultural situations that were oppressive to individuals, everyone voted against. We have a good conscience. It is only so sad that the majority in this Chamber must have such programs as the ‘state of the kingdom’ before they understand what is going on and before they wake up. And I still don't think the majority have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e591	I was a long time unsure whether I could take a line on the post, because it seemed as if the post was a line to Jagland, and it was not fair that I responded to such a line. But there was also some progress party policy. What is very predictable is that Hagen always says that others copy the policies of the Progress Party. When you listen to him, you hear that it's a little politics and substance, and most rhetoric. To the extent that the policy of the Progress Party comes to light, I think it is a saying: the strongest opinions create the most senseless actions. We are all equally shocked and indignant about the TV show that Hagen has been talking about today. But while others are trying to search ways to figure out what immediate actions you can take and what processes you can set in motion to change these attitudes over time, Hagen rejects that kind of process. For him, it's the most important thing, and not finding solutions. The same is true every time it's about assistance. Every time the Progress Party finds abuse of aid, they rage against the aid, but never try to find solutions to how to do this job better. The most important thing is to seize the day and set the agenda, not shape the future to find solutions. Hagen begins by calling for the government's policy for the next millennium. And then you can ask the question: If aid doesn't work, what is the policy of the Progress Party to lift the billions of people living in the swamp of poverty out of it and into a humane existence? How will the Progress Party ensure that their belief in the market and competition do not create a large group of losers here to countries that become our new poor?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e604	Let me first say quite clearly to Myrvoll, and so far also to some of what Einar Steensnæs was about, that the Progress Party feels first and foremost a responsibility towards the Norwegian people and Norwegian voters, and to solve problems in Norwegian society. Here we differ from the other parties, which often give the impression that they are primarily interested in solving the problems in all other countries and parts of the world – in the global sector. A country of 4.5 million. human beings do not have to act as a force. And so there's clearly a difference between the Progress Party and the other parties. First of all, we want to try to solve the problems in the Norwegian community. We can be critical of this, but when there are so many parties in Norway that want to solve the problems in Africa and Asia, it is okay that there is one party that will first and foremost solve the problems in Norway – for the voters who have elected us and those we represent. In terms of international relations and how to lift these countries, our response is free trade, democracy and the market economy. That's what has lifted the Western world, how to organize society. All African countries which, after the liberation struggles, Twenty years ago, Marxist-Leninist, socialist-communist thinking has only gone by. They are today worse off compared to others than they were when part of these forms of government took over. So our answer is, the best thing is to work for free trade, democracy and the market economy. Many years ago, we put forward proposals in this Chamber to impose on Norwegian aid the introduction of democracy and the market economy to prevent corruption and to prevent abuse. Now I notice that there are several people who are starting to talk about the same thing. Then, to the extent that we accept, when we can see that what we have been discriminated against in the past and criticized for, suddenly begins to become good speech in other parties, that at least I am in favour of the temptation to point out that for many years, however, we have said this, when it is a truth that can be easily demonstrated in the many different areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e613	First of all, I am asked that someone who uses an expression as ‘untruths’ in his main post is himself as precise as possible in how he refers to other people’s positions. Hagen did not notice in his reply to me what I was reminded of, namely that the Workers' Party actually had a proposal to improve the health pay system for the low-paid in the context of the revision, but it was not adopted in Stortinget, because the Progress Party voted against. I also get to try it out a little bit of an exciting experiment that's getting Carl I. Hagen involved in an ideological debate on society's development. It is not a directory of past and repeated positions. Nor are there statements of the type ‘we are basically working for the citizens of Norway’, in order to try to create a kind of distance to our commitments and to our relationship with the international community. The working party wants to modernise public space, create better conditions for individual choices and solutions there. That's not the same thing as abolishing the public space. It is not to build as many private schools as possible or send with people a sum of money to run around from school to school. It's improving the school environment. It's improving teacher training. It's to enable the school to meet the pattern plan, and possibly improve it. That's how everyone gets a better school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e624	First of all, I'll pay you sick pay. I am not able to recall what happened under the revised national budget, but I think – I have not been able to run out during this line change and check – that we did not vote for an amendment at the time, because we perceived it to be valid for 1999. As far as the 1999 budget is concerned, we are bound by a budgetary agreement through the subsidiary commitment to the budget. Today, it is explicit in the demand made by the Labour Party, and in the proposal that I hope in a moment will be allowed to make proposals, that we will be in favour of amendments from 1 January 2000, because then we are no longer bound by any budgetary agreement. Only the cash support agreement applies throughout this period. The second was the 1999 State Budget. That's my explanation for that. We said that it was one of the changes we didn't like, and we were dissatisfied with, but we nevertheless voted to get a government budget into port. Again Tom Thoresen talks about individual solutions and the meaning for the individual, and then he tries it a little vulgarly and says that you can't run around from school to school. This is practically organized in the municipality of Nacka in Sweden and in Danish municipalities, and there is no problem in getting this done by having different providers in terms of school and nursing homes or other services. If there's something people have learned, it's to choose. There are different offers in all other areas that are not part of the public sector, and people tend to be quite happy to choose their own provider of many services and goods, and where they trade their products. The freedom of choice is exactly what the Workers' Party is now talking about in a lot in theory, about individual needs, adaptation to users, but they cannot implement it in practice unless the users are then put in the high seat, so that the providers of a service have to satisfy the users and the customers instead of politicians sitting in the City Hall. We're taking the consequences of the ideological starting point that the Workers' Party now has. Because I forgot it in my post, I will be allowed to present the following proposal: Proposal No. 1:‘The Government asks the Government to propose guidelines which effectively ensure that the basic amount of the public interest is developed in line with the general trend in income.’ 2. ‘The Government requests the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to ensure low-paid entitlement to sickness pay from 1 January 2000.’ 3: «The decision asks the Government to assess and assess a change in the municipal law which imposes an obligation on all municipalities to ensure that there are regulated areas for housing at all times, but with an access for the Ministry to grant exemptions in very special cases.»Proposal No. 4: «The Government is asked to work actively to prevent forcible marriages, inter alia, by introducing requirements on dependability and sound housing as conditions for granting residence permits and residence permits in Norway for foreign spouses.»Proposal No. 5: ‘The decision asks the Government to put in place a control system to clarify that it is not an illegal periodicity when applying for a residence permit and visa for a foreign spouse and, if necessary, to provide a good legal basis for refusing visas and residence permits for foreign spouses in the event of forced marriage.’ 6: ‘The government asks the Government to base its integration policy on the fact that oppressive traditions and cultures cannot be accepted in Norway.’ 7: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the production of electricity in Norway based on continental cap gas.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e663	Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e668	The next turn of the year is basically similar to all the other years, but it still feels more musculoskeletal and different. A new millennium provides a special opportunity for reflection and summary, and invites you to draw lines forward both for social development and for our own lives. The Common Era underlines the need for a solid foundation of value for society, anchored in our national and Christian cultural heritage. Material prosperity and economic and political stability alone are not sufficient criteria to measure good social development, although all these are both essential and valuable. Community values, the social network and culture — in short, life between houses — are also necessary to give people the experience of living the good life. The perspective is broadened beyond our own living room wall and national borders. The international inter-human issues are quite clear to put an even stronger mark on the political agenda in the future. Peace, security and cohesion are key keywords. The significant misallocation of resources, unfair trade barriers and the uncertain prospects of the world's poor nations will meet us with at least as strong demands for political action as our national objective of reducing the income gap between the richest and those who have become reliant on income developments. Through a close network of international forums and cooperation organisations, we are involved in fundamental issues relating to peace, human rights, the environment, living conditions and justice, which confront a global responsibility we cannot run from. We share a destiny with all peoples and nations, where it will not be possible to shield ourselves from responsibility, even from what is happening in other parts of the world, whether it be economics, living conditions or the environment. Talking about distant strokes of the world no longer makes any good sense, and in a few years it will be impossible to use such expressions. It would be strange if this should not also catch our attention and shape our political attention, priorities and debate in terms of the state and future of the kingdom. International trends already have a significant impact on our decisions. The aftermath of the economic crisis in Asia is taking place in our open economy. Imposing oil prices in the world market is pulling the crown up and down. The Kyoto negotiations have implications for the framework conditions for important parts of industry, and the war in Kosovo taught us a lesson about how little is to be jeopardized before stability in the heart of Europe is jeopardized, and that cohesion and cooperation between free democratic countries are key concepts for ensuring peace. The aid can be seen in such a context. Social and political unrest is often triggered by an unfair distribution of resources. There are several, both from the political environment and from commentators who follow the political debate, who have been critical of what they call the numerical magic in terms of the level of development aid. Should we not soon start to take more interest in how the assistance is being arranged, it is asked. Of course. Of course, we must constantly be prepared to adjust instruments, priority target groups and the facility of the overall assistance in relation to the experience we do — good or bad — and to the optimum desired effect of the funds set aside. But I have never, for my part, realized that this should be in conflict with binding objectives on the scope of assistance. That is why it is good when the Government is in favour of an obliging aid escalation plan, where key areas of action are poverty reduction, health, education and economic and social development, where democracy and human rights are priority objectives. A few weeks ago, the Official Journal of Bergen referred to a survey by the Central Statistical Office on the living conditions of the Nordics, where the paper for its part summarised the survey as follows: "We're getting richer, but not happier. We want more. We've had more free time, but we're complaining about time constraints. We care less about the environment, more about ourselves. We are a people of sutreres." I think the description has to be pointed. Nevertheless, it is difficult to free ourselves from the fact that any of this actually hits. There is, of course, a legitimate complaint and call for help from groups of people who today do not receive the help and support they need to feel secure in everyday life. We have to do something about that. However – it is difficult to get rid of the feeling that Bergen’s Official Journal’s summary can actually have something to do with it. Maybe it would help to lift your eyes a little bit and look beyond in a global context? The Government has formulated its objectives for political work through the terms ‘Innovative, solidarity and security Norway’. A solidarity Norway means commitment to better distribution, to justice and human rights — both here in the country and internationally. It also means that the Government will ensure that people who are driven away from their own country because fundamental human rights are not respected can get the necessary protection and help from us. This continues a political and humanitarian commitment that has good, deep roots in our country's history. But the solidarity dimension is also about recognising that some groups in our society need more of our attention and community resources to meet basic, daily needs or to be able to participate fully in social and work life. Here, there is reason to mention separately the conditions of the disabled. The concept of safer Norway is a rather broad, multidimensional expression, ranging from security policy to the wider measures taken to ensure a smooth transition to a new millennium, as far as data disruption is concerned. It is easy to connect security directly to the fight against crime, violent crime and the crime of winning. It should be obvious that people could travel in streets and in public places without feeling fear or insecurity. And luckily, that's the way it is most often. I noticed that former President Jimmy Carter yesterday in his speech reflected on the term "rich people" and thought that rich people, among other things. were people who could safely go out in public places — at least in the daytime, as he said — without feeling insecurity, and that it was some kind of wealth. I think there is a cross-political will here in the Chamber to prevent a development in which basic security of life, health and property should only be reserved for some selected groups. The government's signals are very clear and unambiguous at this point: the government wants to step up efforts both in terms of preventing and combating crime. But until that happens, a wide range of instruments are needed, not just the police, not only an active judiciary, but also prevention measures. There has to be coherence and logic in the response chain to achieve a satisfactory result. An innovative Norway sets out important guidelines for ensuring value creation, employment and employment. There is particular reason to emphasise the importance attached by the Government to research in this context. More efforts are being made through the Norwegian Research Council, and the Research and Innovation Fund is being further built so that increased returns can contribute to increased research activity. The employment has evolved a lot more favourable than what many perhaps in dark times saw separately. However, although there is indeed a tight labour market in many industries, the supplier industry in particular is struggling with extensive lay-offs and redundancies. There are concerns along large parts of the coast, where this industry is a key activity in many communities. Therefore, specific measures should be considered to help maintain the competence of businesses in order to avoid excessive adaptation to a lower level of activity than we have had in the last few years. Fortunately, today we are in a completely different stable situation with regard to the country's economy than at the corresponding time last year. The government has succeeded in stabilising the economy and securing employment, and has taken the challenge of balancing the growing differences between peoples, developed in the 1980s and 1990s, most of them under the Labour Party regime. Now there is an interesting opportunity to ensure important well-being, balance differences and meet our obligations in terms of international solidarity, to mention something. For the time being, most of the birds are on the roof of the negotiating situation we are now facing. We hope that things will work out well, but negotiations have two possible outcomes: they can succeed, or they can fail; we also need to have that opportunity in mind, and then, of course, we will ensure that we have sufficient time, if necessary, to open negotiations with the Right and the Advance Party in a tidy manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e708	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e711	The birds probably don't sit on the roof, they're sitting here in the hall. I'm glad of what Steensnæs said. It shows that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have many of the same basic attitudes that are based on social responsibility, and there should therefore be opportunities to come forward in the negotiations that are now coming, which could drive the policy of distribution and welfare into the direction of the Workers' Party rather than in the direction of the Right and the Progressive Party. Now Steensnæs said that you are prepared to negotiate with the right side if it is not possible to arrive with the birds in the Workers' Party, who are sitting here in the hall. And I want to ask that question, because it must necessarily lead the policy away from what you are willing to negotiate with the Workers' Party. There will not be an increase in the taxation of the wealthiest in society, on the contrary, it could be a relief in taxation, and at least not an increase, as we want. We have to assume that the common consumption will be weakened. The Right Party and the Advance Party are against all state aid for the school leisure system. This is why it was reduced in the current year's government budget, and we have to fear that it will force further reductions, with increased parental pay as a result for the next year as well. Indeed, in its programme, the Progress Party is opposed to all state aid to kindergartens. Many other examples show that policy will go in the opposite direction. Could Steensnæs explain how it is possible to start negotiations with the Labour Party and then, if it does not lead, start negotiations with the other side, which will lead the policy in the opposite direction to what is being prepared to do with the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e720	I'm not hiding that I liked the tone of the representative Jagland. That promises well in front of the negotiations – difficult negotiations, I would like to stress – that we are going to enter into. We have a genuine hope and a faith that it will succeed. Already the meeting held between Jagland and the Prime Minister has cleared up the doubts that might exist on both sides of the negotiating table that there is genuine will. Both parties state that one has clearly identified that it is a willingness to identify. Then we should be able to succeed. But the representative, Mr Jagland, asks how, on the one hand, we can start negotiations with the Labour Party in important political areas where we stand together – I give Jagland without further ado, and I also mentioned examples of this – and then possibly go to the Right and the Advance Party. It has of course the starting point that when we sit down at the negotiating table, we have – as I expressed it – most of the birds on the roof and hardly any of them at hand. What we hope to avoid then is that when the cash support, as a significant obstacle to a budgetary union, as it has been in the last two years, has been removed, new, heavy stones rolled down the road to the negotiating table, which makes a budgetary unity impossible. It is clear that in some areas we can identify a significant political distance from how we can solve some of the important challenges we face. And I think these negotiations, which are not going to start here, are saying that we have respect for those areas of negotiation where the political distance is too great to reach agreement, and that they must therefore lie, and that we have flexibility in all other areas. Then I believe that the possibility of reaching the policy areas where we agree could be reasonably successful.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e729	I am not going to interfere very much in the debate on birds, which the representative Steensnæs has been involved in. I just remember reaching in the autumn so much is about hunting and about migratory birds. This warm embrace as apparently became Steensnæs part of the representative Jagland, is a solid proposal for the open stage. I may think there were certain features to Mr. Steensnæs ́ attitude that suggested that this was not so very pleasant, at least in full daylight, then we see how it goes in the darker encounters. I think otherwise it was interesting to notice that most of Mr. Steensnæs’ interventions focused on policies outside Norway. It may be understandable that you want to spend most of your time on it, while at times your home policy may be uncomfortable with the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party. It was natural, too, that Steensnæs in his post concerned the offshore industry and what is about to happen in the West, where he himself comes from; something else was not to be expected. But what was to be expected was that Steensnæs and the government he's in had shown a far more active commitment to counteract the crisis that many over time had seen was developing. And what you've done now is not really something that – I'm told – has a decisive effect. The budget contained very little connection to this. Good wishes – well, but a little concrete. But in concrete terms, I would like to ask the following questions on the basis of proposal and what else has been said by the Workers' Party: Does it seem that the Labour Party's policy is closer to that of the Christian People's Party than that of the Right and the Progressive Party?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e741	I noticed with interest that the head of the Defence Committee was stunned that I spent so much time on international issues in a persuasion debate. It is well-informed and necessary to focus on what will meet us stronger and stronger in any important political debate in this House, namely the international issues, not least in terms of international solidarity, in terms of the environment, in terms of peace and security. I actually thought, despite the fact that I called for more commitment from the Progress Party on these important issues, that the chair of the Defence Committee would understand that. But I understand that he's here in line with the other party. As far as the shipbuilding industry is concerned, I do not hide that this has been one of the difficult questions. The employment in the country is very good. In fact, there is pressure in the economy and lack of skilled labour in different industries, but the yard industry/supplier industry has been under pressure. This is why the Government of this State budget has targeted a number of instruments to address the problems facing this industry. I mention the reduction in the CO2 tax, I mention the closure of the production fee and I mention close cooperation with the labour authorities in the places that are particularly affected in this situation. So Røsjord asked me the rhetorical question: Do you think Steensnæs that the politics of the Christian People's Party should be closer to the Labour Party, or is it closer to the Right and Advance Party? I explain it this way: as a centre party, we have important policy areas on our right that we have now, through two state budgets, put in place together with the Progress Party and the Right, and I do not hide that it has been interesting – among other things. the cash support. But we also have important things to the left of us that we now believe are important to travel and get supported, and there we see more opportunities together with the Workers' Party than with the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e750	Steensnæs was in his contribution to the economic stability of the Norwegian economy, and repeatedly the centre parties have boasted of it during this year. The truth is that in 1999, Norway has not been guided by the central government budget, but by a budget on which the Right has had a significant impact and which has contributed to stability and falling interest rates. The strange thing is that, despite the fact that they boast of all the results achieved in 1999, the central government has for a long time indicated that they want to change partners. The parties in the Government have partially prayed, threatened and knelt for political cooperation with the Workers' Party. It may seem that the central government has made block independence itself a general principle, and that they need to change sides to prove this independence – policy is less important. The fact that policy plays a small role in the central government can be seen in the fact that in 1999 there was a significant tax relief in the billions class. It has been presented as a brilliant central policy by the centre parties in 1999. Now it looks like you can go along with the Workers' Party about a significant tax tightening. It must also be a brilliant central policy. What is contained in the Workers' Party's proposal is almost identical to the Workers' Party's proposal last year, which was then reprehensible to the Centre Government. I simply have to say that it is difficult to find the political margin in the central government. And then I remember a quote from the newspaper Arbeiderbladet on June 12, 1998, from Steensnæs. He was then asked: ‘ – What does this centre profile consist of?’» ‘It is neither quantifiable nor exemplifiable. But that means that it must be possible to define the government's policy," said Steensnæs. It's not easy to see.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e771	Initially, I just have to say that I do not want to spend more time puncturing that statement in the newspaper, which I have never agreed to, and which was drawn entirely out of its context. Enough about that. But that is actually a good context in the strategy we have chosen in the negotiations ahead of each budget. In both previous years, we have first turned to the Labour Party to try to open negotiations, precisely because it is the largest party, and therefore we have found the most natural way to start that way. So there's no other strategy this year than it's been before. The problem was that in the previous two years the cash support actually became the stumbling block that prevented us from reaching a budgetary agreement. The Workers' Party has now clarified that the cash support no longer constitutes that obstacle. Should we then for the first time break previous year's practice and say yes, now the cash support is gone, but now we go to the Right and the Advance Party? It would certainly put our own credibility in jeopardy, and it could be questioned by our sincerity over the previous two years, where we sat down to the negotiating table and tried to reach agreement. But it ran out of cash. Now the Workers' Party has cleared up the principal, almost ideological, obstacle to reaching an agreement. That's why it's important that we try again. Then the representative Nilsen tries to present it so that the tax reliefs that had an impact on the budget of the year would be straightforward. They weren't. If one looks at the effects of the tax decisions that were made in agreement with the Right Party and the Advance Party, we see that, contrary to what the Government proposed, it was the high-wage groups that received tax relief, while the low-wage groups got an increase in relation to the Government's proposal. That's the inverse of what the government wants.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e785	Whether Einar Steensnæs won't acknowledge the quote that a center government can't be quantified or exemplified, it's a good thing, but it's a very precise description of the two years we've had with a center government. If there's a journalist in the newspaper who's invented it, it's anyway a classic, timeless quote. One consideration that can be made — and that shows that Einar Steensnæs’ interventions are to pursue policies between budgets and not in budgets. The budget has so far chosen to go to the right. I think it is commendable that Steensnæs spends a lot of time on assistance in his post, and that is an illustrative example of what the two years of conciliation on the right have led to. I have never doubted Steensnæs’ sincere commitment to assistance, but in the plan set out in the Waksenås statement, one would step up to 1 percent in four years. Now, after two years, a plan is being presented over six years. This means that ambitions are relatively modest in relation to what has been the starting point. But this must be the case when one does not focus on politics, when the most important thing is to sit on the taboo. It's kind of been the exact summation of the two years, so far. I also have to give Nilsen a few points to make that when you choose to cooperate towards the left in Norwegian policy – and that is, of course, affordable – the result will be quite different. That again means that the summary of the government's indifference to the seventh and last decisions is a summary that is quite striking. Now I'm not going to consider how the negotiations are going to go. I hope, however, that this will lead to a better policy for the country. But what may surprise me the most is that in the budget that the Government has presented, and in the various documents that the Government is presenting to the Stortinget, there are very few visions. It's a little air, and it's a little forward-looking policy. The summary of day-to-day policy is also striking. This year's budget and the Norwegian economy show, for example: that we are more oil dependent than ever, and my question to Steensnæs is this: how are we going to make sure that the nation becomes less oil dependent into the next millennium when all the budgets of this government have been presented show that we are becoming more oil dependent?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e804	There is a lot of sympathy with SV's policy, not least in terms of assistance. The problem is credibility. When Øystein Djupedal tried to challenge the government parties on how to become more oil independent, I think he challenges me in a special way, because the problem with SV's policy is that they spend too much of the oil money. They have no difficulty in financing the most — whether it is school, aid or employment — that creates pressure in the economy, preventing interest rates from falling and thus creating instability in the economy. We have a central policy that aims to stabilise the economy, and that's what the government has done. From the situation we had last harvest, we are now in a completely different, favourable situation with control of the economy, with a lower interest rate, with a stable crown, with a controlled price growth and with a wage growth, also through the Arntzen Committee, which shows that the Government has made it clear that the task is to work well with the social partners. That is why we have been able to act, so we have been able to show strength. We are not under government responsibility just for the sake of power, but for the sake of politics. And we've been shown results. It is not just about NOK 1000 for the minimum pensioners or about cash support. This is what we have in international aid, whether we have achieved in terms of the environment and employment; and not least, we have been able to combine successful economic stability with high employment. The challenge, therefore, is moving firmly towards what is the problem area, and which I responded to in a reply to Oddvard Nilsen, namely the situation in the supplier industry. There we should look together in an effort to turn the instruments against these companies in order to ease the pressure in that industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e813	Steensnæs said in reply to my reply here instead that he hopes that no new large stones will be rolled in that could prevent a negotiated solution with the Workers' Party. It will not be, as it is now known what is the theme of the debate. It's concrete, and it's talked to the government about it. Steensnæs also answered a question from Røssjorde about the Christian People's Party is closer to the Workers' Party than the Advance Party, and the answer was that the Christian People's Party now sees that more can be done together with the Workers' Party in areas such as distribution policy. It's positive, but you have to be aware of what we're talking about. There are not rocks that are being rolled in, there are things that are identified in the conversations that have taken place and that have also been addressed in the Government's own announcement of the policy of equalization. On page 15, it says: ‘The main reason why those with the highest income have been deducted is that capital income has increased and has been broken down over the 1990s. Investment income is particularly concentrated among the one per cent with the highest income. The concentration of capital income in the high income group is due in particular to the strong increase in dividends and realisable gains.» Here we find what needs to be done, and we have addressed that in the negotiations. And my question is, to clarify my previous question, how can you start negotiations with the Labour Party on this question, because if it doesn't work, turn to the right side, which is really going to make the very opposite of what is in this message that you should do?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e825	I'm glad that Thorbjørn Jagland now looked to say for an open microphone and in an open room confirms that there will not be new primal, almost ideological, barriers that would close for an agreement with the government parties. I can also confirm from our side that we have the same setting, and that that is why it is a willingness to agree. But I'm not hiding that, for example. in the case of the instruments to close the revenue gap, equalise the differences and thus ensure that proceeds are also collected to finance the various Community expenditure, there have been different assessments of the central government in relation to the Workers' Party. For its part, the government would increase capital taxes by increasing taxes on general income and counteracting its effects by increasing deductions and minimum deductions. It has not been accepted by the Workers' Party as a possible grip. There have been other proposals from the Workers' Party that have worried us, because it seems that this is an act that will affect the framework conditions for important employment, for small and medium-sized enterprises and thus create uncertainties in jobs that are currently under pressure. Not least coastal and maritime workplaces. We have to guard against that, and we're assuming that at that point there is an agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. We do not want to create uncertainty in this transformation about framework conditions, predictability and value creation, employment and important jobs. From that point of view, I expect that we will agree, but I hope that there is also an understanding that when we go to the negotiating table with open books, we must also take into account that the negotiations are not successful. None of us can guarantee this, and we owe it to both the Right and the Advance Party to act orderly and to give them a reasonable assurance of orderly negotiations if this should be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e832	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e835	It's a problem, what's now prepared in this line change. The government has a huge problem because what Thorbjørn Jagland wants to do in terms of so-called distribution policy must affect what is involved in capital for Norwegian business and the creation of jobs. That's where he wants to insert his impact. In practice, this may result in new differences in Norway, namely differences between those employed and those not employed. That is the reality of the so-called distribution policy for Thorbjørn Jagland. I understand Steensnæs' concerns, I understand that he'd like to get out of this, but it's not that easy when the game ties. I also have to say that I get quite excited when I hear Thorbjørn Jagland talking about distribution and other parties, and not least about the role he assigns to the Right in the historical context. I'm proud of the role that Right has played in setting up a policy to create jobs, create well-being, share in sharing well-being and that we've been involved in making arrangements that promise those who have the most difficulty. I don't need a moment to apologize for any of this. Listening to Thorbjørn Jagland gives the impression that the welfare society is a social democratic invention, or a Norwegian invention. That's not right. I have also read the articles of Thorbjørn Jagland, which have been mentioned in this debate. We all know that he goes solid at the bar every time it's about Kepler and Copernicus, but he also goes solid at the bar in terms of political opponents. I'm pretty upset; he has a lot to learn at this point. Then I want to start from last year and the serious turmoil that was then about the Norwegian economy. The non-socialist parties worked towards a budget that was shared by everyone. The budget, which made a significant contribution to calming down and to the fact that interest rates are on the way down and the price rise is lower. Yes, this budget has been so successful that the government has incessantly boasted of it, a self-esteem that also Steensnæs just repeated. The budget partners from last year became a winner team. It is a very special form of logic when government parties believe that this successful result indicates that they are now switching partners. They're not a moment in doubt about what the government wants. They don't just want to start conversations with the Workers' Party, they have a heartfelt desire to agree, as was the case with Steensnæs" posts. But in this way, the government parties disappoint the bourgeois voters. And as if this isn't enough, they're simply counting that if the proposal fails, the Right Party and the Advance Party will set up again. Block independence could have some kind of meaning if it were to establish a majority for different issues with different partners, but the government's desire is obviously to have different partners in the same issues. That doesn't make it long-term. That is why we can now go from a budget without tax increases this year to a budget where the Workers' Party spends 2 billion on the 3 billion of the government parties. That's why we can get a budget that increases the cost by DKK 3 billion on the significant increases of the government party, and so the government's speedy effort to think about the generation challenge is reduced in cash. It is not the case that this budget takes care of the weakest. This electricity charge, for example, which the Government is so concerned about, and which has now been flattened by the Workers' Party, is something that will not least affect pensioners with poor advice. Early in the period, the government had an impact on its two heart issues from the 1997 election campaign: cash support and the raising of minimum pensions. But that's why the census just raises a question that comes up more often and more often: what does the government want more? The State budget also raises such a question, for what kind of will does the State budget express? Why is one of the ‘news’ the proposal to remove the care allowance, a proposal that affects its own nuclear selection group — the families with children — with laser-controlled precision? There are not many more issues from the Adult Declaration that the Government can or will address. When just a new millennium should inspire long-term thinking, there is greater and greater doubt as to which way the Government wants to lead the country. The next major political test of strength is just barely two years away. In the discussion after the elections early this fall, I thought that we should talk about the political challenges ahead, and that we should be able to put behind previous disputes, and look at the challenges that are now to be solved. It was an open invitation, so open that I think it's natural to let the government parties find out a form that fits. I would like to remind you of both the referendum of the Left and the Christian People's Party, and I would remind you that both Sponheim and Steensnæs told us last year that if we did not agree, it would have long-term and negative consequences. Well, we agreed. And then it's natural for me to ask, what did the government have in mind? It is interesting enough that State Council Sponheim has taken my invitation positively and very correctly stressed that the government parties are too small to raise long-term and heavy challenges alone. I'm waiting for the follow-up. It is now time to get the 1997 selection out of the body and look forward to the next strength test. The election at that time gave the government parties considerable self-confidence, and we remember that the prime minister of the Christian People's Party's national meeting this spring said that the Christian People's Party's goal was to take over the role of the Right as the great challenger of the Workers' Party. Although the municipal elections are, of course, primarily about choosing local government and county councils, we must nevertheless be able to see that this autumn's election results have shown that this task is considerably more complicated than the Prime Minister saw in our case. And as intense as the Prime Minister now frees to Jagland, the word ‘challenges’ is not what comes first. If the Government would now like to pursue policies according to the Labour Party's instructions, why should they replace them? The future we are going to prepare for is a future marked by rapid changes created by new technologies and ever-new framework conditions in a globalised world, a globalization that we cannot choose away. If we don't have the ability to meet these challenges, we can no longer create security for our citizens. The task is to make Norway robust enough to face these constant and rapid changes, and to ensure that the well-being we want and want here in the country has a secure economic foundation that enables us to know we can offer them to all people. Reforms in the health sector, as proposed by the Right, are important, but it is also important to make sure that it is an economic backbone so that we know we can keep what we promise. That is why we must renew Norway. Let me briefly outline some of the steps that need to be taken: a prerequisite for mastering this challenge is knowledge. When school and education became the biggest thing in the last election campaign, it was because we know that in this area we're not good enough in this country. Of course, Norwegian school is very good, but it doesn’t think it’s more than ‘good’. We have to have the ambition of being among the best. And here I wonder about the government's attitude. It wants to do something, but it won't do it now. It sees the school as a kind of well-being that gets to wait until it reaches its priority. This could be an expensive misunderstanding. Knowledge is not a well-being; it is the very prerequisite for the Norwegian welfare society to be a safe society in the coming years. Without a high level of knowledge, we will be put out of competition in the future. The problems in Norwegian school are there now and have to be solved now. The signs are clear to anyone who wants to see. 15 - 20 p.m. by those who leave high school cannot read and write properly and are therefore functional illiterates. Mathematics skills are far too poor for those enrolled in the higher education and university systems, and teacher recruitment is on the way to a crisis. We're late enough out as it is. On the right, the election campaign presented a comprehensive programme for improving Norwegian school, 21 steps towards a school for the 21st century. And there are three main steps: A force must be taken to improve the recruitment of teachers. It is very critical that the Government is constantly delaying its proposals for improved teacher recruitment. We've now heard of another postponement on top of everyone else. The main measures should be an increase in wages — including a more differentiated pay system and municipal bargaining responsibilities — the commitment to continuing training and greater educational freedom. At the opening of this meeting, a Document No was presented to the Right. 8 proposals for specific measures to stimulate access to lecturers. When so much emphasis is placed on measures to recruit more teachers, it is because it turns out that resource use can be increased in almost all areas without having particular effect if the teacher is not good enough. Today, too many good people, young people choose to get away from the teaching profession, and even fewer choose to stay in the profession if they want to take the education. The second thing we should do is to ensure that a number of reforms can be implemented within today's resource framework. And there's a lot of them. For example, at the opening of this meeting, a document No. 8 proposals for measures to strengthen primary education. Some proposals will also require more resources. The necessary upgrading of buildings and the improvement of the indoor climate are examples of this. But we have to choose. It's not enough to do anything for school, the most important thing has to come first. It is therefore important that these other measures are not at the expense of the measures necessary to improve teacher recruitment. That's why I already said in the election campaign that I think it was reasonable for the government to add to its proposal to reduce the number of students in the classes, not because they do not want to implement it in themselves, but because it is a clearly less important measure than measures to improve the recruitment of the teaching profession. So just briefly three more things: I think we're also going to have to put some strings under the importance of communication in order for us to be able to seize the possibilities that exist. There's one impression that's left after a lot of campaign meetings. That is the requirement for better communications and road construction, and it comes from all over the country. Around us here in the Oslo area there are many demands. Wherever we come in the country, there are also many demands. The work on the road between Florø and Förde, a relatively short distance, will take 8-12 years to finish, and then there is something serious wrong that makes us unable to use our resources properly in this country. This cannot continue. There won't be anything better with the Workers' Party-Centre proposal. We have to take a power cap in this area. I think one of the most important struggles Norway will have to fight in the years to come is the struggle for capital. If we lose it, we also lose growth and future jobs. There is reason to fear that the budgetary unity between the Government and the Workers' Party will make it further difficult to win this battle. When another DKK 2 billion is to be collected from the government's proposal for increased taxes, there is a danger that businesses and productive work will have to spend. In a large-scale interview in Today's Business on July 3, Jens P. Heyerdahl states that the government seems to be more concerned with distribution policy than with the way in which value creation takes place. And with the paces we are now seeing from Thorbjørn Jagland, I think also Thorbjørn Jagland should feel met by Jens P. Heyerdahl's reminders. What really creates differences in a society is the difference between people who have work and those who have no work. The last area I was going to mention is about the energy sector. Carl I. Hagen has already mentioned it, and as far as I understand it, he has also made a proposal. I have the same starting point that he has to say what I now want, namely that in the interview that many have talked about, Thorbjørn Jagland clearly says that it is important to process gas reserves, and that it would seem strange if we were to import gas power from the Netherlands, which gets its gas in pipes from Norway. I agree with Thorbjørn Jagland's point in this area without further delay. He has an opportunity to realise the idea of exploiting the Norwegian gas resources if he agrees with the proposal that the Right Fostered in Stortinget last spring, which is now under consideration in the Committee. If he agrees with us for that, he can get one of his visions realized.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e894	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e898	This is actually a debate about the Government's throne speech, but quite a few speakers have spent quite a lot of time talking about the Workers' Party and Thorbjørn Jagland's posts and Thorbjørn Jagland's chronicles. We in the Labour Party think that it is absolutely excellent that there is debate and attention on our issues. It might be an illustration that we're not so on the sideline as many claim that we have been, and it might also be an expression that the Government put forward in the throne, has a little limited interest, because it's a government with a weak parliamentary basis. The representative Petersen also spent some time at the Workers' Party. Let me briefly comment on some of what he said, which was wrong. One is that we're going to add $3 billion to the spending growth on top of the government's proposal, and that we're going to add $2 billion to what the government has proposed in tax increases. Both parts are incorrect, and it appears in the list. We're going to cover up our spending increases proposals. We are still a very responsible party. We're either in opposition or in position, as opposed to others. We have proposed adjustments and changes to the Government's tax arrangements, including: ensuring that no more ordinary employees are affected by top taxes, as the Government states. It was therefore wrong what was said by the representative Petersen. So the representative Petersen spent a lot of time at school, and that's excellent. But when it comes to school, the main point is not that you want a better school, but that you're able and willing to give more money to school. Throughout the election campaign, the right has struggled to explain how to get a better school by giving less money to municipalities. They repeat their desire for higher teacher's salaries, and have assumed a salary increase of NOK 50000, a total of about NOK 5 billion. What we saw in Oslo nine days after the municipal elections was to cut over 100 million. kr on the school budget. Optionlifts have been broken before, but it has rarely happened that they have been broken so soon after a choice. The question is: Will the Right continue to cut the municipal economy, and do they think it is possible to combine it with increased school investment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e909	First a little bit about the Working Party on the sideline. I have had no great need to tell the Workers' Party about it. If the representative of Stoltenberg is to have comfort, I would say there are two important areas where the Workers' Party has been on the track, and where not least the Right Party and the Workers' Party together have defined the framework for the Government's activities. It's about running an active European policy, where it's obviously important that we've been together in Stortinget, and I hope that Jens Stoltenberg will also be with us in exploiting Norwegian gas resources, as the logical consequence of Thorbjørn Jagland's article might be. So if the morals might not be all over the world, at least I'll meet the Workers' Party on those points. So it was interesting to hear what Jens Stoltenberg says about how to perceive these two and a half sides that the public has received when it comes to the budget negotiation with the Government. However, I would like to say to my defense that there is nothing in these papers about the containment and that it should be cut in other areas. But that's probably some of the things that you haven't said before, until you've said it now. It's good if it should happen, but it obviously increases the difficulty of agreeing with the Government. There are probably also some further improvements that the Government and the Workers' Party should aim for in order to make this work well enough. As we've been told publicly, to understand, I have coverage for what I've said, but I'm glad that's not the case. When it comes to school – yes, now it’s already shining – I have to say that when we got 21.4 pst. by the votes at the elections, I don't think we've worn so much of our credibility in that area – rather on the contrary. I am absolutely convinced that this has gone very well. In terms of what we're going to spend money on, we've been very clear: the big and heavy economic component will be about pay issues. Now the situation is the unfortunate fact that it is the state that negotiates with the teacher's organisations. That is why these negotiations must be put in place. But then I will repeat the promise I made throughout the election campaign, namely that we will then follow up with money to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e920	The President will ask the Replicant to stick to the measured time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e923	I noticed that there was one theme the representative Petersen did not talk about in his post, namely the fight against crime, and that might also be a signal. I have been a member of the Justice Department of the United Kingdom for six years now and have been given the opportunity to be more and more amazed at the weak attitude of the Right towards criminals. Today, criminals who get a conspiracy do not get full punishment for all of the criminal acts they have committed. Or, in another way, they don't punish some of their criminal relationships. This is, of course, grossly unfair. However, when the Progress Party proposed to remove this quantum discount and the Rimi price on the punishment measurement, the Right voted against the proposal. The right would only adjust the unfairness a little, but not remove the scheme. The Progress Party has proposed to remove access to community services for criminals of violence. Social services are an unreasonably mild form of punishment, which involves one hour’s work each day as compensation for one day in prison. Nevertheless, the Right voted that violent men should continue to be punished in such a mild way. In this way, I could continue to give a long talk on the Right's proposal and on the Right's who have voted against proposals from the Progress Party on stricter responses to criminals. The right has made some own suggestions, but there has been a pickle on the surface and far from enough in a country where a killer actually escapes from an average five-year prison and where a pedophile usually misses out with one to two years of imprisonment. This really surprises me. The right is going to be a value-conservative party that should fight the solutions of our society. A good school is probably sensible prevention, but that is not enough. My question is therefore: why do the Right vote so consistently against proposals for stricter penalties, and why do the Right of All parties have such misunderstood care for the criminals?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e936	It was probably not the case that there was only one theme I did not have the opportunity to mention in my block post, there were a lot of themes I would like to have touched on. But as far as I can see, there is one similarity between Carl I. Hagen and me today, namely that none of us talked about crime, and I therefore assume that this line to me has the representative Simonsen going to repeat at the Group meeting of the Progress Party on the first occasion. Otherwise he has no basis for his questions, and he knows that well as a member of the Justice Committee. What we have not voted for is the exaggeration of the Progress Party. Everyone knows that after other parties take the points of view that are considered in relation to the challenge, the Progress Party always puts on very little and pulls it out into the unfairness, and then comes back with lines like Jan Simonsen does, that is to say that everyone else is voting against sensible measures. The line that Simonsen's representative now had, he's had for a few years, so in that way I can refer to previous answers. So this is about Simonsen's exaggerations and unreasonableness. The right-wing criminal policy is a consistent and cash criminal policy, and he knows that, of course. I would also like to say that I think some of the most important thing you can do about repeat offenders is to make sure that the criminal case chain is implemented significantly faster. Then many of the problems that I fully agree with would be avoided. But the very right suggestion in the matter is the correct answer to this, and not Simonsen's exaggerations. I think it's a bit sad to hear that the last representative Simonsen, who has been talking about crime for many years, has left, is trying on lines of this kind. In reality, there is now such a consistent criminal policy that the Progress Party has lost a good part of its message in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e949	Jan Petersen expresses an obvious disappointment, perhaps it also sounds a little bit more like an accusation, that the central parties this time, as he says, choose to go to the Workers' Party to get to a budgetary union. Let me then remind you that there has been no more than one year since the Right was willing to go to the Labour Party to achieve budgetary unity. Then I would like to repeat what I have said earlier that what is happening in this year's negotiations in relation to the negotiating strategy is no different from what actually happened both last year and last year. The only difference is that this time the cash support is cleared up by the road as a decisive obstacle to budgetary unity. This, of course, brings us a little closer to the goal, even though I always stress that it is to be negotiated before we can collect any kind of prize or win. Of course, it does not make us a political clone of the Workers' Party, as Jan Petersen says, as little as it has mattered to our political profile that over two years now we have achieved budgetary unity with the Right and the Advance Party. After all, we keep all our political identity. After all, the art of the debate is to enter into a compromise where both parties can live with the conciliation and defend parts of it, even if something is more of a pleasure and perhaps more of an annoyance. But this is the case in all negotiations. We will continue to be tidy in budgetary negotiations in such a way that we will ensure a progress plan that will allow, if necessary, the smooth negotiations to be carried out with the Right and the Advance Party, if necessary. Now the representative of Stoltenberg cleared up what I would call disinformation about some of the things that stand in the agreement. I just want to say that in the case of the care allowance, it's not about a curtailment, but about a simplification, where the care allowance and child's care allowance are combined, so that the bets increase.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e958	This was quite interesting, because it's a paper entitled "The Labour Party's Requirements for Necessary Conversions to the State Budget for 2000", and that's what I have to deal with. It has now renamed Steensnæs to ‘a settlement’. Does this mean that there has actually been a very long way to go in the substantive negotiations? Because if this is to be seen as a settlement, you've come further than the claim list itself. But that's it. I want to avoid the impression that I am personally disappointed. What I said in my post – and I insist – was that I believe Steensnæs disappoints bourgeois voters by the Christian People's Party turning its back on other bourgeois parties. That's what I've been saying. I think some taxpayers are disappointed, too, and I think some small business owners can quickly be disappointed if Jagland gets there. Maybe you already agree on what it's going to be – who knows? And that's where the disappointment will lie. The fact that Steensnæs says that he approaches this in the same way as last year, it doesn't really do anything better, and it doesn't change my claim, namely that the government parties start with the Workers' Party and want to agree with that party. It's just at the moment you don't agree with the Workers' Party, that you move on to other parties. There is therefore no need to treat potential partners in a non-discriminatory manner. Government parties prefer the Workers' Party. We just get to register that, because that's the way it is, and I don't think Steensnæs is going to try to talk away from it. I also think that the representative remembers a little wrong if he thinks it was the way the Right Party and the Workers' Party had made a setup last year. What we remember was that we kept saying that we wanted to agree with the Government. When it seemed that there might not be anything, said among other things. The working party that then we have to find solutions to the crisis. To that I would say that we had to, of course, but it was for both parties' obvious relapse positions, in order for the country to get a budget at all. But what we wanted was cooperation, so it's a wish that Steensnæs doesn't have, unless he gets no from Thorbjørn Jagland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e969	Because political parties generally place more emphasis on presenting individual issues and points of view related to some current situation, it is certainly not always easy to get an idea of their perception of social developments. For example, the Right election campaign led largely to a case, which turned out to be a gathering of great public interest. The problem is that running on such a popular case is often perceived as trying to hijack voters, and that there is nothing left behind. At this point, of course, people are sceptical. Hence, the Right Leader and others are intriguing him with a question about another matter, where the dispute is open to the question of values and social views. This applies to the EU Directive on the right to take patents on life. The Government has notified that it can veto the Directive from the Norwegian side. How will Right settle in such a case? Taking patents on inventions has so far been a little controversial, but it is different when it comes to patenting biological material. Should, for example: some multinational companies could acquire the power to achieve biological uniformity? Are such companies going to gain more control over food production in the world and thus disperse millions of small producers? It is not understandable to define the Right's ideological position, but nevertheless: If the Right is a value-conservative party, the answer must be no. So true right will have a market with many actors who believe in lack, also the answer must be no. At this point, the struggle is not about a single thing, but about a social view. How one turns around and turns around, should all point towards the fact that the Right for once indebtedness says no to an EU directive. Will that happen?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e976	This was a funny line, because I noticed very carefully what John Dale said. He said that the government warned that it would be “can” relevant to veto this case. And so ask a member of a government party opposition what we want to do in a case where the government party just says that it can be "may" become relevant. To that I have to say that the government has to present the matter to the Storting with a recommendation in the usual way. But I record that the questioner for his/her person only says that it ‘can’ become relevant. For my part, I would say that it is a very complicated matter, not least because it is a language related to the where the words obviously bind the thought. And the reality is considerably more diverse than what John Dale here said. It'll be to put things completely on the head if it's that the opposition is going to take a stand before the Government, but it's in and off by itself not surprising when we know which government is asking. When it comes to the first thing he said about the school questions, I have to say that there are clearly ideological differences here. That is one of the reasons why you took such an interest in that matter. It is a matter that has clear practical implications, while there are clearly different solutions. Therefore, this was not a simple matter. This is a very important matter for the future of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e985	Today is a joyous day, because it represents a turning point in Norwegian politics, according to what I can judge. The likely agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre Parties will, of course, improve the budget presented, at least a little bit. However, much more important is the establishment of a new cooperation pattern in Norwegian policy and the long-term trend towards a centre/left majority constellation in Norway. Everyone understands that once this cooperation pattern is established, it cannot be a permanent situation that a party with 35 pst. digestion supports three batches with a total of 20 pst.? And it won't be a permanent constellation either that SV, which is larger than the Center Party and the Left, is not part of it. That is, we're going to be a part of it. And where the new situation is, we see the very best of the Progress Party's behaviour here today, because until last year the Progress Party could only win, they had the whole attention. Now Carl I. Hagen is putting his entire party program to the vote here in Stortinget as a bench proposal in a desperate attempt to get out of the Valley of Shadows. And you world how happy it is! If the Right would also have less influence in this situation, I have to say that there is no great plague, either for the Storting or the Norwegian people, because political credibility is important. And some major failure in political credibility than the Right has shown by conducting an entire electoral campaign with education as a top priority, because then in Oslo, Norway's largest city, the most important municipality in the Right Government, presenting a budget proposal with the exact opposite, it's hard to find. It's serious. The evening post wrote in the management position yesterday about ‘a grotesque distance between the Right election campaign and the City Council’. It goes on to say: ‘What’s extra bad is that the school budget tells about the failure of the city council’s political stance.’ That is why the draft budget also appears to be a real downgrading of the school by the City Council. My question to Jan Petersen is: if this with education in the election campaign was seriously meant, how can the Right fail so totally that it is called the “gross distance” in the evening post?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1006	I understand that Solheim needs to push a journalist in front of him, because there is no coverage for that kind of expression. Solheim knows that very well! He knows, among other things: the Oslo Schools have a very high resource availability, where they, for example: in the case of hours, have a number of hours corresponding to nearly one year of schooling. It's the offer that's been there. That discussion has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, it has been, There's a disagreement about what this number is. But I can assure Erik Solheim that the budget that was adopted next year will be better than the budgets that have been adopted for the current year. So that's not coverage for Solheim's expression. He also knows very well that in relation to what I have promised, which has been a lot about teachers' salaries and similar questions, we are fully in line with the results we have received. Honestly! I think you should stop this now. Erik Solheim knows just as well as I do that the voters, as they expressed it in the election campaign, have clear confidence in the school policy we have set up. And I'm going to be able to prove by results that we're worthy of that trust. Otherwise, I have to say the following about the Progress Party: it has, in particular, formed the myth that the Progress Party has had a very great influence over the political decisions. And then the question is, Where then, on what issues? Well, in some areas where it has been clearly reasonable, for example: in the case of input-driven financing. But what's in the overtone, that someone's been pressured into positions that you really don't like, and that really can't be defended, is not coverage for. It is only once that the Progress Party has really gained influence in a way that was very unfortunate, and that was when they went hand in hand with the Workers' Party when it came to IT Fornebu. But that was also where the problem lay.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1018	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1021	This year’s debate on the throne illustrates the speed with which the situation can change in one year, both internationally and nationally. The crisis in Kosovo was rapidly developing over the period of the debate on the throne a year ago. One stood before a tragic conflict that was to trigger great losses of human life and unimaginable suffering, before Milosevic bowed to a massive pressure from the international community. The fourth year’s debate was also marked by the crisis in parts of the world economy, a crisis that also engulfed the Norwegian economy, with a weakened crown and strong interest rate rise as a result. The central government had to endure strong criticism of economic policy from a united opposition on this occasion. Today, the situation is quite different. The reconstruction of Kosovo is under Norwegian leadership in the OSCE and with Norwegian military presence. The crisis in the world economy is on the verge, the oil price has nearly doubled since last fall, the Norwegian economy has been freshly reported, inflation is low, employment is record high, and Norwegian Bank's government interest rates have fallen by 2.5 pst. since the New Year. That the criticism from the opposition is about as strong this year as last year is another matter. The debate on the throne also indicates that we are now halfway in the landfill period. The first Sunday is two years since the central government joined, and the two-year anniversary can be marked in a secure assurance that the center is ‘life-created’ also as a government option. The government has shown that it is manageable in a demanding and challenging situation, nationally and internationally, even though Jan Petersen believes that the parties that form the government today are too small. At the threshold of the millennium, the central government has presented a government budget for 2000 which continues economic stabilisation policy, marking the political profile of the centre by focusing heavily on health and care, a fair distribution and a reinforced environmental and district effort. Although the local elections of the harvest do not change the composition of the Storting, the elections can nevertheless have national political significance through the political debate that has triggered the elections. The Right Party and the Advance Party – which progressed in the elections – have, as far as I can see, reinforced the tone of the government, while the Labour Party this year takes a more realistic view of budgetary cooperation in the Stortinget. Thus, the budgetary process has come into a better path and has got a better start to this harvest than was the case in 1998, when a budgetary settlement between the centre and the Progress Party and the Right came into effect for 12 hours, after a turbulent harvest in which there was actually a real opportunity for budgetary cooperation between the Labour Party and the Right to lead to a government crisis. The Common Era warns that ‘the government will strengthen the work of equalizing living conditions’, for which it is called in the Common Era: ‘A solidarity Norway means commitment to better distribution, justice and human rights — both here in the country and internationally.’ Over several years of economic recovery, Norway has benefited most groups in the country. However, the Cohesion Communication presented by the Government in June demonstrates that differences in Norway have increased in the 1990s. Some groups have slowed down in welfare development, and this is a major challenge for this growth. The Equalisation Notice is a follow-up to the Adult Declaration and by Anne Enger Lahnstein's interplay with Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland in the spring of 1996. The central government has already taken important distribution steps to show that it will take the increased differences seriously to quote from the Adultås Declaration. In the 1998 budget, minimum pensions were increased by a total of 18 p.m., and in the next year’s budget, it is proposed among others. concrete redistributions for the benefit of the low income groups. The balancing message challenges the size of the population to be at a cohesive force for those groups that have been left behind in the development of wealth. The central parties want, inter alia: a more delicate social security network more equitable social housing taxationThrough the budgetary work of the autumn and the treatment of the Cohesion Communication, Stortinget is given the opportunity to demonstrate that it is a political will to counteract the development of a society with increasing disparities. At the waxenåsen, the central parties set themselves bold targets for district policy. And even though the majority in the United Kingdom has worked against the government's district effort in a number of ways, it is a new belief that it will be possible to change the move pattern that has evolved in the 1990s. In the Roman Empire, the Government announces a strengthened regional policy initiative, including: focusing on the further development of the local advantage of districts through a competitive and competence-based business. The State budget for the year 2000 further strengthens regional policy efforts in relation to the current year, and the budget line of the Workers' Party may indicate that it is possible to avoid weakening these efforts. Thorbjørn Jagland had some interesting considerations about national ownership and state involvement in industrial policy and addressed criticism of the government's management in this regard. Let me address an important part of this matter, namely ownership and structure of the financial industry, which is currently a most topical issue. In the context of the current draft terms of merger, the Minister of Finance has said that the Government will focus on the guidelines and principles drawn up by the Storting. In brief, these can be summarised as follows: that a restrictive line is to be introduced in relation to attempts to buy the largest financial institutions that are important in order to avoid flagging out, and that it is important to have the head offices of Norway that a certain level of government involvement is important, inter alia. in order to prevent buying-in, there should be restrictions on ownership which may prevent individual institutions from obtaining a dominant position: The leader of the Workers' Party has recently experienced a rather intense alerting from key players in the financial industry. What conclusions the Workers' Party will draw from these consultations are currently unknown. But when, in today's debate, Jagland raises criticism of the Government's course of action almost on a principle basis, should it be allowed to ask whether the Labour Party's criticism is to be perceived in such a way that the party believes that the guidelines of the Storting should be changed? Have things happened in the financial market that indicate that what was in force a year ago is no longer applicable? When this criticism is raised with the strength of the speeches by Mr Jagland, it would be interesting for the further debate if this could be clarified during this debate. The question is short and good: what does the Workers' Party think? Other speakers from the Central Party will address questions such as: related to business and education.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1094	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1097	The representative Jacobsen made an excellent contribution to the need for active distribution policies in the future if we are to have some hope of a fair distribution of the goods we have. I agree that much of this can be done via tax, perhaps the best main steps can be done via tax. But the grips must be made so that it is possible to give people in Municipality-Norway the offer they need no matter what status they have, no matter what handicaps they have. As a result, active distribution policies in the municipality of Norway will be possible, municipalities will have to be able to be active with those citizens who need help and support and where measures are needed to give them active and meaningful lives. That's why it's so remarkable that a government that's resigned from the Center Party, which previously put great emphasis on the local government's economy, is actually now in favour of more earmarked funds and less room for action for the municipalities. My question to the representative Jakobsen will therefore be: will it not be possible in future policies by Stortinget to reduce the earmarked funds through the decision-making of the government and increase the free income of municipalities, among others. such as the Workers' Party makes in its negotiation plot so that the municipalities can have the necessary freedom? Finally, the representative Jakobsen also discussed how Norwegian participations should be managed in the future. It is quite obvious that Norway does not flood with strong private capitalists. If we are to have strong and stable national ownership in Norwegian business, we must also accept that the country's capital is actively involved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1110	I fully agree with the representative, Kosmo, that taxation is only one important instrument in the area of cohesion policy. That is why I also mentioned quite specifically both a more finely masked social security network and a more social housing structure as other important steps to contribute to such cohesion. I also share the view expressed by the representative Jørgen Kosmo on the importance of the municipal sector in the provision of public services, which is also an important element of cohesion policy. Now, the representative of Kosmo should not be as surprised and should think this is as remarkable as he was now saying, because the budget that has been presented is, after all, better than the draft and the framework for the local economy that was adopted in the context of the municipal economic proposition in spring. I have registered that the Workers' Party now wants to provide more in free money to the municipalities. When we have such a strong commitment in earmarked resources, Cosmo also knows very well that it is related to the important health and social reforms adopted by the Stortinget, which require such a designation. This is also a decision on which the Labour Party has been able to participate. With regard to the last question raised by the representative Kosmo, namely this with State involvement, I take this as a kind of partial response to the challenge of my intervention, namely whether the Workers' Party still believes that state participation and state ownership can be important, not least in order to prevent the flagging out of key social institutions, which banks and insurance companies continue to be.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1119	After all, Jacobsen represents a party that has over time stood in the barricades of the districts, and has commissioned itself to be a party of the districts. Then it is interesting to see that there are only three sentences in the posts of the representative, Mr Jakobsen, which deal with district policy. Jacobsen here says that the government is warning a reinforced district policy commitment. Then he mentions something that is very interesting: ‘further development of the local advantage of districts through a competitive and competence-based business’. I would like to be allowed to challenge the representative Jakobsen at that very sentence. After all, the centre party has been the party that has also gone into the rush to impose excise duties on Norwegian industry, especially in the case of the environment. I am talking here about the CO2 tax, I can also mention the passenger fee for those who are going to fly, among other things. from Jacobsen's own county, the North Trøndelag, and the divisional model that is very negative to Jacobsen's own state, a state with very many small and medium-sized enterprises. I can also go back and look at it with district work places that the centre party should be occupied with, namely Aker Verdal and the fishing industry. In this context, I would like to mention the plans of Norwegian Forest for the construction of thermal power plants on Forest in the North-Trundelag, which the Centre Party is opposed to. The representative Jamessen also mentions the increase in differences. Isn't it interesting to see that it's actually in the regions that the Central Party has ruled, that the differences are greatest? My question to Jakobsen will then be: Does not the Senterpartiet and Jakobsen now see that it is necessary to look with new eyes at tax policy in order for Norwegian business, not least in the districts, to have equal conditions of competition with their foreign competitors?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1128	I must agree with the representative Sandberg that I did not spend all the world's time on district policy, although it was an important element. It is also related to the fact that the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs is actually on the list of speakers, and we from the Central Party who are taking part in this debate need to allocate some of the tasks – just as has been said. There is no reason to deny what can be read directly from the budgets, both for the current year and for the next year, that it received a significant budget increase in the current year. And when, from a high level, we continue to bet in the districts, as the 2000 budget also shows, I think the Central Party, with great boldness, should continue to argue that we are fighting a fight for the districts. Then we just have to draw the conclusion that one of the areas where the pathways of the Central Party and the Advance Party are separated is just one area that Sandberg addressed, namely environmental policy. We must almost perceive Sandberg as opposed to the polluter-pays principle, that he is opposed to the principle that a charge should contribute to the protection of the environment, and he mentioned very specific things in this regard. In the same context, we also need to mention this in the environmental sector with gas power plants, because I have seen that the Progress Party says that they have no concern whatsoever about starting construction of thermal power plants based on a technology that is actually on the way out. So what Sandberg said about environmental issues only confirms a political reality, that the pathways of the Centre Party and the Advance Party are separated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1137	The parliamentary leader of the Central Party was displeased that Jan Petersen stated that the government parties were too small. Now I think Johan J. Jakobsen heard a little wrong there, because what Jan Petersen did was just quoting a statement by Lars Sponheim, who is the leader of a party that knows something about being small, so he must well be considered an expert in the field. We're witnessing an interesting turnaround in this persuasion debate. Those who have made the opposition to the Government over some, the Workers' Party, have fallen on the line that you will get as close to the government parties as possible. The government parties on their side clearly signal that they want nothing higher than this. Now, it's probably an exaggeration to call this a proposal, as many have done in this debate, because a proposal is a one that requires lifelong fidelity – and that's not how far you've come. I guess it's kind of preliminary dance exercises, maybe even the quickest way to look like an actor's ring so far and not a pair of dances. I noticed in the debate between Johan J. Jakobsen and Thorbjørn Jagland earlier in this debate that the two still disagreed very much on who is responsible for Difference Norway, whether it is the sitting government or whether it is the Workers' Party. Johan J. Jakobsen claimed that in the 1990s, labour party governments have the primary or primary responsibility for this, while the current government has started a new course. In that case, the current government has done so with the support of the Right Party and the Advance Party. There will probably be an open question, because if the Labour Party governments in the 1990s have the primary responsibility, then these governments have been regularly supported by the Centre Party. So then the parties are in common about the honor that Difference Norway has become as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1148	My side note to Jan Petersen about small parties might have been slightly different from what was meant. Of course, I fully agree with Jan Petersen that the government parties are too small, but they are not too small to be manageable. I would like to help correct the idea that we are too small, I would like to work to create a broader and heavier parliamentary basis, but what was my point was that this government has shown for two years that it is manageable, and that despite having a narrow parliamentary basis. I agree with Inge Wohnung that what has happened to exchanges between the centre parties and the Workers' Party has nothing to do with freedom. And I fully agree with Inge Wohnning that the concept of proposal is little exhaustive, because it's just a little bit of the point of this government that it doesn't want to commit to any lifelong allegiance to blocks in the Storting. That with block independence was some of the reasons why this government was able to do it. With regard to the development of Difference Norway in the 1990s, statistics show that in the period from the beginning of the 1990s to 1997 the differences have increased. Then the picture is probably a little too simple when Inge Wohnung says that this is the result of a collaboration between the Workers' Party and the Center Party. There has probably been much greater variation and breadth in constellations also in the 1990s, and I also think right here must be taking their share of responsibility. So if that pay said about this question means that also the pay and the right will be on an active line to balance the differences and reduce the differences, this is very pleasant.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1157	There is a short time left of this century, although among the representatives in this room there seems to be disagreement about how long. However, with regard to the EU Patent Directive, we heard the representative John Dale from the Central Party address it directly to the Right. And if there's something about the challenge for the next millennium, there should just be patents on life. So we see how modern technology now allows for the mapping of human genes and how some also seek to patent what is nature's own creation, as if it were created by humans. John Dale was liberatingly ready in his challenge to the Right and Petersen the more unclear. But it is natural to ask the question to the President of the Central Party when one of his co-representatives is so clearly challenging other parties to the EU Patent Directive. Does what Dale here says, that the Central Party itself in government is now quite clear that they are going to go against the EU Patent Directive, put their foot down, use the veto right, so that Norway does not become a supporter of the Patent Directive?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1163	I have actually perceived this government so that the government as such has said a crystal clear no to patents in life. So one has said that in this respect it may be relevant when the question arises, to use the veto right. But as Ballo certainly knows, there are other ways to meet such a situation. I see this as perfectly clear in the government's position: the government has said no to patents in life. And that's why John Dale was also on a safe ground when he asked his question to the Right, who has not signaled the same position in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1168	I am pleased that Johan J. Jakobsen is concerned with the same areas of policy as we in the Workers' Party are: better distribution between generations and a fairer tax policy. But I have to say that I am looking forward to the budget negotiations and what will be the reality, and I think that Johan J. Jakobsen's 30-year experience from Stortinget can come along well. But there's someone who's not as impressed with what the government has now presented, and that's the municipalities. There is a gap between the intentions of the throne in this area and the reality. It is strange, therefore, that over several years, strengthening local democracy and strengthening the local economy, the Central Party has been given such a destiny. One might say that the Central Party leaves the difficult task of cutting down to school and growing up, to the newly elected local politicians. The freedom of trade for the municipalities is so to speak gone, and there is a world record set in earmarked means. One cannot ear away from narrow total frames. My question is then: does the representative Johan J. Jakobsen not see that, in order to safeguard well-being, take care of the safety net on which he was involved in his post, strengthen public services, do municipalities need to be given greater freedom of action, have more room for action? What will Johan J. Jakobsen's 30-year experience from Stortinget contribute to improving local democracy and local authorities' space of action? Or to say it in his own words, how will the municipalities also become more life-creating?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1177	It is nice to note that Berit Brørby is both happy and happy for the forthcoming negotiations. With regard to the local economy, it is really a little interesting today to remember what happened in the autumn of 1996, for example. Berit Brørby and I spent several days negotiating and negotiated an increase in the local economy of between 4 billion and 5 billion kroner. These are resources that are still in the system, and that have been constantly built on top of. So it's a little bit of a fate irony that Berit Brørby is now acting in a completely different situation. But I'm happy to give Berit Brørby the right that the municipal economy is an important part of the security network to contribute to the security and cohesion of society. And when Berit Brørby asks exactly what we're going to do in this situation with ear-marked means, I've previously replied to that in the line Jørgen Kosmo had to me earlier in the debate. What is the situation today is that there is a municipal budget on the table that is an improved budget compared to what was anticipated in the context of the treatment of the municipal economic proposition in spring. In today's situation, we have recorded that one of the elements that the Workers' Party has put in as part of its budget line is increased free resources for the local government sector. And it's clear that in the Center Party we look forward to this discussion. Choose to mark if this can be integrated within a responsible financial framework, this will be among the elements of the Workers' Party's arrangements that will be the easiest for us in the Centre Party to accept.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1184	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1187	One of the questions here today is about this autumn means that there is a cooperation climate in Norwegian policy that allows the Right and Advance Party to be parked on the political sideline where they belong at the entrance of a new millennium. Or is it that for at least two years in the future, Norwegian policy will appear as an exercise for particularly interested people, with a government that cannot plan for more than half a day at a time, depending on Carl I. Hagen's day-form and Højre's a little more formed sarcasm? That's what reality has been like for two years under Bondevik's leadership, and that's not how it can go on. Whatever the outcome of the budget negotiations in the autumn, I think it can clarify for us and for the voters what road choices we are ahead of us for the next two years. If the negotiations between the Labour Party and the Centre are grounded, and the Right Party and the Progress Party once again have a strong influence on economic policy in the future, all parties will be going to the Grand Prix elections in 2001 with a clearer centre/right than what has been the picture for us now. In such a situation, the role of SV in Norwegian policy will be a clear opposition role. But for the voters and for most of us, in the meantime – in two years – you will take big and small steps, and very many of them will go in the wrong direction. If the Labour Party and the Centre enter into a comprehensive budgetary settlement, it may be the beginning of a majority composition in Norwegian policy that will allow them to set long-term objectives and work systematically to achieve them. The role of the SV in Norwegian policy will then be a clear challenge in the issues we see as most important, both to the Workers' Party and to the Centre, in order to achieve results in relation to political competitors and colleagues we know have sound-bottoms in the same matters that SV is concerned with. A budgetary settlement with the Labour Party challenges the central government. It could be the beginning at the end. This will mean that the political differences between the centre parties are challenged to a much greater extent than has been the case so far. Bondevik's ambition is that the Christian People's Party should become a leading party on the bourgeois side, while the Center Party's heart beats for an alliance on the left. The concern of the Christian People's Party for small and large capitalists can be opposed to the Central Party's desire to strengthen the local economy and combat differences. The centre games may be forced to choose, and they should be forced to choose. But neither can the Workers' Party continue as before. One cannot build a long-term majority constellation in line with the spirit of Thorbjørn Jagland's posts here today, if one also invites Right to Cooperation at the next national meeting of the Workers' Party, or has as side sport to defeat the Government by letting Opseth and Hedstrom go free on their contact with IT Fornebu. The Workers' Party has found out that they want power again. Now they have to clarify what they want to use it for and what alliances they're going to be in. The working party with 65 representatives in Stortinget can hardly be a modest supporting party for a central government with 42 representatives behind it. A negotiated result between the Workers' Party and the Centre cannot vary much from what we have seen is the starting point of the Workers' Party's negotiations, without making the Workers' Party a small dozen supporting parties. It is not the great grips of the Workers' Party's proposal for changes to the central government budget. It is a small touch to suggest, for example: One billion more to the municipalities and expect it to take away for the big investment in school we need next year. It's a beginning, but it's not the big visionary rise, and you can't vary much from it, according to SV's view, without the changes that actually come, becoming too small a scale. So what is SV's role in the situation that has now arisen? SV has made a good choice. We're larger than two out of three government parties. We want to influence a majority constellation. We have ambitions to participate ourselves because we have important and important things on our hearts. It is SV who has been in the forefront of developing a school policy for tomorrow’s society. We are the ones who achieve a political victory when a lot of parties here today talk about the challenges we have with Difference Norway. Before the tax reform was adopted with effect from 1992, we have pointed out the consequences today, namely that the differences in Norway are increasing and the 10 pst. The richest ones move away. A recipe was adopted to increase differences when a new tax reform was adopted. And we've produced reports from the SV that the government has now produced a big message that supports our view of this area. SV is also the batch that represents the only environmental opposition of Storting. And even though it's heavy and boring when the discussions don't go around it, we have a big responsibility by systematically challenging the bulk of the population on environmental issues. In recent years SV has worked systematically to present their own policies. It's very easy to turn to the role where you're primarily concerned about criticizing what the others are doing. We've been fighting to present our own policies, asking the voters to come up with what we ourselves have on heart, and through this election campaign we've been very successful in getting it done. People have ended up on SV, not because they've been mad at others, but because they've agreed on our political challenges. What SV sees as the biggest challenge in a new millennium is that one has looked so high and sees so far that one has the perspective of all the big and small things that we're going to make decisions about every single day, that the result of those decisions is to be measured in 10 years and in 20 years, that the direction of what we're going for on the Storting and everywhere else, is that we can say with our hands on the heart: we've taken the right direction, we're leaving something to our kids that's better than what we got from our parents. We think the voters are up-and-coming people. There is not necessarily laxity that makes the voters unable to get to the polls. We don't think Norwegian policy is going to evolve in the next few years towards a more American election campaign, where the party organisations and the voters have one job to do, and that's to salute their always present party leader. On the contrary, we believe that we have rather demanding voters who don't like to come just once every two years and tell us which parties they want to have power, but voters who want dialogue and who want to be involved in the important road choices along the way. Many voters are calling for brave parties who dare to address some of the things they themselves feel are the most important challenges. How can it be that some of the richest people in the world are in such a time crisis that they hang in the strap every day and have too little time for what gives quality of life? How can it be that in one of the richest countries in the world, with greater opportunities than anyone else, we are unable to address what is going to be the most important clearing job our kids get if we don't do anything, namely the environment sector? We think it's possible to mobilize up-to-date, interested political voters on visions. In a globalised economy, it is more important than ever to define what is the space for political governance. This means that, as the right-hand side does not do, the movement of capital can be described as natural forces and the political space of action so great that the only option we have is to fly to all other countries and operate the same undermining of the welfare state through tax dumping, the dumping of social rights or the dumping of environmental standards. For us, it is very important that we use the opportunities Norway has as a very rich country. Almost all the other countries in the world envy us. We have a giant oil fund, but we haven't been able to get any ethical guidelines for that oil fund that makes our crowns where they breed around the world help to pull the world a little bit in the right direction. We don't yet have the awareness that we who have a lot of capital on the hands of the state can use that capital to be a buffer in relation to a globalized world economy. We have a major challenge in Norway because we are an oil-dependent country. But I have to say that I am amazed every time it seems as if for the majority of the population it is a surprise that Norway is an oil-dependent country. In the 1990s, Norway has invested nearly 700 billion dollars in the oil sector, and then we can't sit like some kind of squeaky question mark and wonder why in the world we're so oil addicts. This is a result of a conscious, wild policy. The big challenge for us now is to invest the same amount of money in what is going to be tomorrow's most important growth industry, knowledge and competence. And then we can't touch around in the school and education sector. We need to ensure that we have a school and education sector that is up and equipped, but not least content. This is where SV believes that the right is the greatest risk of competitiveness in Norway, if they are to have an impact on their school policy. I'm as surprised every time I start to read those 21 school points to the Right. So we're going to measure kids. All 6-year-olds in Norway, if they get what they want to do, are to undergo the same test at the same time, and then you have to sit and straighten out and see if a 6-year-old in Sagene school can do as much as a 6-year-old in Alta, Haugesund or around. Anyone who knows anything about six-year-olds knows they're different people. It is not possible to get them into a quad that can be measured. It doesn't matter if a kid learns to read when he's four years old, or only when he's eight or nine years old. The point of a modern school must be that one takes on the individual and cultivates the knowledge that a 6-year-old enters the school gate, so that it glows and blooms and is bigger when he is 16 years old, and has not been killed once and for all. We haven't really had a real discussion in Norway about what the new knowledge and competence society means. But the main distribution policy we can pursue, and the main industrial policy we can pursue, is to have a knowledge, competence and education sector that is up and running in line with the challenges of the future. The next job we have to do is look at what's going to replace the offshore sector that's now struggling. What is it that you can do in offshore? There is a lot of the knowledge we need to get the environmental sector to become the field of activity that can also be our main business area, energy saving. There is no point in Norway being as much in front of this field as for example. Denmark. Denmark has – not as its largest export product, namely pigmeat – as its second largest export industry, the development of alternative energy in wind turbines. In Norway, we have a huge potential both to save energy and to build a new knowledge-based, forward-looking industry if we take this seriously. And then we have to think differently than what I see many arguments now in terms of the electricity charge: it has to be compensated because we get increased expenses some and each of us. But that is not the point of increasing an electricity charge. The point of increasing an electricity charge must be that we change actions, that we save energy. And if you had two thoughts in your head at the same time, you could distribute what's possible increased power costs, like a check for each of us, so that we could go and buy the panel ovens or what's needed to save energy. At the same time, such a fee increase would have been used to launch a forward-looking, competence-based industry that we can live on in the future. – Of course, I always have more on my heart than I can reach. The major challenges for Difference Norway are both in fiscal policy and not least in ensuring that those who are poor in the world's richest countries come up with a standard of living that allows them to participate in what people else do. And then we need tax policy to re-distribute, so that if people get sick, if they live by social security, if they have any problems that it's hard to get out of, it doesn't mean at the same time that they can't participate in what's usual. And the biggest disappointment for SV about a government that wants to do something about Difference Norway in this budget is that it does so little in the housing sector. There are many people who don't have the entrance ticket that allows you to get a safe roof over your head.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1231	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1234	However, in a good and very committed post from Kristin Halvorsen, the fact that there is a bourgeois majority here in the house who actually also wanted a different course from that both the Workers' Party and the SV have wanted. And that's where it now seems to be a change of mind, but it still remains to be seen. The Labour Party focuses on addressing the challenges – which were also addressed by Kristin Halvorsen – on the environment, in international policies and distribution at home and abroad, but I emphasise in a globalised Norway. The world is here, too. As far as distribution is concerned, I agree with Kristin Halvorsen that competence and education are essential to provide all opportunities in a knowledge-based society. And even though I disagreed with Kristin Halvorsen when she in the election campaign stood so hard that everything was wrong in school, because I think it will lead more to escape than to bet, it's a priceless effort to want the best for the school. However, the Workers' Party has now presented to the government parties a number of areas on the educational side that need to be strengthened. And of course, although we can't follow up everything in terms of dosage as SV will, we've now put the emphasis on some spins that have to happen, within the free resources of the municipalities, cheaper kindergartens, school leisure arrangements, free school books, university and college weightings and student housing. The question goes to Kristin Halvorsen: are these areas SV now also going to focus, or are there any other areas of competence and education SV will have to be decided here in Stortinget – not what is decided elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1245	I don't really think that the central government has got that challenge from the Workers' Party on policies that they've earned in two years. I am therefore very pleased that the Workers' Party seems to be changing the strategy, because there are many important and important challenges ahead where the centre parties deserve to be challenged; not least now my good friends in the Center Party are pursuing a different policy than what they did in the opposition. In the field of education, there are several major challenges. I see that the Workers' Party has spent NOK 1 billion to strengthen the municipal economy, so that municipalities can do a better job in the school sector. But we don't have to trick ourselves into thinking that this is a huge amount and that it's enough. That's why SV would want us to have a majority for the following in Stortinget: we need to upgrade the school, and we should start in high school. There's the greatest dissatisfaction, there's most of the students in the classes and there's a lot of people who lose motivation. We have to do this in both equipment and school construction — only in the case of school construction, we probably need an upgrade of about 10 %. 14 billion kroner, that's a huge amount – but it also needs to be in terms of content. We need children and young people to learn the way the curriculum has sketched, but that is far too little conducted around in the many classrooms. That means you have to have a few dollars so that a class can work in a different way and move the teaching out. You have to have a few dollars so that you can invite an engineer or a carpenter into school, so that the school is connected to the working life that the kids are going to have. You have to have a school that makes teaching so liberal that kids can work in projects and out of interest and out of tasks that are important and essential and forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1254	The government is signalling many major and central tasks waiting for its solutions through the guise of the throne. The Christian People's Party and the Government want to work for a warmer society based on the Christian fundamental values, or, as it is said in the Common Era, that it is working 'for a social development characterized by a solid foundation of value rooted in our national and Christian cultural heritage'. I have listened with interest to Kristen – I'm sorry – Kristin Halvorsen's contributions, but I can't see that I have experienced to a significant extent that she touched these things. Could it be that only the budget is crucial? Is it so that value questions are a non-themed SV? When it comes to violence, intoxication and disintegration, we experience that there are increasing challenges, and uncertainty is increasing. If we're going to succeed in tackling this major and important social problem, there's no doubt that we need to build a warmer society for all of us. Can the Socialist Left Party's representative here, in connection with the Common Era, give a view on what they want to underpin their work on a safer society, and what is the value foundation of SV in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1263	I had a loop teacher once who called me Kristian every hour. I really realized that I had chosen the wrong choice, but Odd Holten and I know each other so well that he knows my name if he thinks about it. So to this with value questions. For us, it's below and above and around all the policies we're doing, even when it's about heads and ears. Our starting point is that all people have equal value. If you take it really inwards, it makes very big demands on politics. This means that every young person, no matter what the starting point, should have the same opportunities and rights, not only in Norway but also worldwide. So today, the world's citizen is going to be no. Six billion born, I saw in the paper. I don't know if we can figure out exactly which person it is. But it makes huge demands on us if you assume that all people have equal value in a world so marked by poverty, and 4 million people in one of the richest countries in the world have to do a job. Then you have to hold up solidarity, and every day when you see someone who is struggling with completely different challenges than what we are doing, think: it could have been us. It could have been Odd Holten and me and more around in the hall who were born under completely different conditions. It's unreasonable that they don't get the same chance as us. But then it doesn't just help with some little puzzleries in the state budget. Then we have to work for an economic system in the world that redistributes between us, and that gives less power to the big international companies, which push too much on standards that are important for development and for the environment. That's the big challenge we have every day in Norwegian politics. But the job we also have in Norway is to make sure that there is the greatest possible upsurge among the 4 million. people to see more than themselves. We don't get any further into democracy than we have people with us.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1270	It's always interesting to listen to SV's leader. I'm not going to go into any educational debate on the basis that she invited to when it came to the reference to the Right 21 points program – just recommend that she make another attempt in terms of reading, and perhaps come a little further than the point she mentioned, which was quite fundamentally misunderstood. In the newspaper of 9 October this year, Erik Solheim has a major article under the title ‘Parties must renew’, with the sub-title ‘Gir ‘right’ and ‘left’ meaning?’ The article is a long line of argument that there is no longer any particular meaning, and that the traditional position of lots and positions on the right-/left-hand side becomes less and less interesting. Now I did not hear so much in Kristin Halvorsen's articles on renewal of SV or SV's points of view. Therefore, I feel compelled to ask her some questions in this context. One of the points that Erik Solheim refers to is the attitude towards European cooperation. I quote: ‘The whole EU does not fit into a right/left pattern. In Norway it was considered as a left-hand side to say no, while the right-hand side largely said yes. In the European debate, the main picture is the opposite. Resistance to the EU is strongest on the outside right, while the left is largely positive.’ Then the next section continues with a almost lyrical hymn to globalisation and a corresponding clear delineation to the forces that are isolating themselves to the process of globalisation. I allow myself to quote again: «Red-brown isolationism must be combated by all serious forces, both the decent right and the rational left.» These are quite interesting tones from Kristin Halvorsen's predecessors, and therefore my question is: Is there hope for foreign policy renewal in SV? And can the renewal go in the direction that the former foreign policy spokesman for the party has gone in the previous period?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1292	Yes, there were some painful enticements from a former leader of the European Movement, who I see reading everything with great interest in the hope that the next EU match in Norway can be won. I do not think it is necessary for SV to reconsider its view on the EU issue. But what Erik Solheim writes in that article is quite correct, that the reasons many in Norway had for saying no to EU membership were based on a desire to develop Norway in a different direction from that of the EU project. The big question in the future is whether we have managed to do it, or whether it is now that we have a no-government that has done the job very much on behalf of the yes-side. Let me take some kind of long-term challenges. If we look at the public sector's share of gross domestic product in the 1990s in Norway – it sounds a little distant when you say that, but that's really what we see every day with the standard in school compared to the standard at home – the public share of the economy has been significantly reduced. So that means that economic growth has gone primarily to increased private consumption. A lot of people on the no side were fighting against an EU membership that would put on an economic logic that went in that direction, and now we've come to it ourselves. This is the challenge for the majority of the population to address it and to ensure that an up-to-date public sector and a welfare society that the large majority in Norway want to end up and do not want to buy from it through private solutions. SV has never been an isolated party. On the contrary, we have been an internationally oriented party with ambitions to cooperate across borders and across the world's regions on the main issues for the future, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1301	I want to hear Kristin Halvorsen talk for two minutes about one theme: about incentives for those who are going to create the hundreds of thousands of new jobs in private businesses in the next few years. Employment in Norway is going very well. Better than before, under other governments. And it goes better than in the EU countries. This development wants the Government to continue. There must be many hundreds of thousands more jobs created in enterprises with private owners over the next 20 years. Not least in order to finance a good school and care for the elderly, we need to succeed in this. To do that, we have to tempt many more to become business owners. We have to give them financial start-up help as entrepreneurs. We have to tell them that if you succeed in creating new jobs, we have to tempt those who are already rich to invest in new small businesses instead of in large businesses, and here in Norway instead of abroad. Long-term security for these job creators and investors is as important as providing long-term security for employees. The energy sector as a bet area is mentioned by Kristin Halvorsen, and I fully agree. And we have a number of such fields of action. But there's not going to be any bet in these areas without any private people figuring out that they're going to start with it instead of becoming employees, which most people prefer today. It is clear that this is what is safest, for example. in the public sector. But we need those revenues from the many, many small businesses in the future – much more than so far, because oil revenues are going to be reduced. What offensive action does SV take to stimulate private job creators, business owners and investors so that we get enough and exciting jobs across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1312	First, I have to say that I disagree with the analysis that Morten Lund gives. He describes the public sector, school and education as a cost item paid by the value creation of the private business, and in this case small enterprises. We disagree with that view of value creation because school and education are an essential part of value creation. If we don't really bet on a school with a higher standard of equipment and content than we have today, it's just the private business that's going to suffer for it. I've challenged business leaders many times, and I'd like to do it again: take a trip to the nearest school, stay there one day, see if they're working the way the future workforce is going to work. Because what Morten Lund is quite right about is that by 2020 only half of the jobs we need up until then are not yet invented. We need a completely different development and creativity on this, but knowledge is the key. When it comes to public policy in relation to it, I think we've gone way too far in letting SND act as a normal bank with too little liberalism in terms of taking risks. These are proposals that SV has promoted in the past and that we are going to promote again. But if you're going to get where Morten Lund wants, you also have to be liberal in order for some entrepreneurs to fail. If we're going to find what's really the new jobs in the future, we know that someone will try and fail. Then you have to have someone to finance that also takes into account that someone is going to fail in the hunt for the gold grains we need. This is our main challenge to the centre in terms of the framework conditions of small businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1321	SV's and Kristin Halvorsen's commitment to the school is commendable, as Grete Knudsen also pointed out, but we in the Workers' Party were probably somewhat surprised when SV in the election campaign used almost as much shooting at the Workers' Party as at the right parties, especially when you know who laid the foundation for equal rights to education in this country. I'm glad that the tone from Kristin Halvorsen now is a little different than it was then, but you have to say that what SV suggests is ambitious. SV was also among the most noisy, to put it mildly, with a promise of 10 billion kroner to the school and also with promises of salary increases for the teachers who are intended for approx. $5 billion over four years. Kristin Halvorsen said in an election debate that the cash register is going. Maybe it's the way SV needed even more cash registers. The working party is also for a strengthening of the school. We have also put forward our concrete proposals for this. Not least, it is important to strengthen the local economy, and we have then proposed, as has been said here in the past, approx. One billion more in accruals in addition to other bets to the school. I'm a little surprised that Kristin Halvorsen calls it little things. We in the Workers' Party intend to keep what we promise. I also think it's a point not to create unrealistic expectations. I have two questions: how has SV planned to finance its huge election promises within the school? What budgets are to be taken from? The second question is: How has SV planned to increase teacher pay if this is not to be done in the Storting, and so do the organisations in the labour market assume an invaluable responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1332	Firstly, I am not familiar with Sylvia Brustad's description of SV's job in the election campaign. We didn't spend much time outlining the Labour Party's school policy in the election campaign. In fact, I don't remember having a single post in that direction. We spent time fighting for our own view of school, our own view that we want a more diverse school with more space for the individual – a school with resources that allows you to see each person, even if it is small, as a unique individual. But I think there are some weaknesses in the school reforms the Labour Party has introduced. I think, for example, that the professional courses of study have become, not theoretically, wrong, for many approach theory through practical work, but too abstract, too distant in relation to the way that many young people want to learn theory, too square, too unliberal in relation to creating some other courses of education that allow one to come back when one is 18 or 19, instead of going straight from one school bench to another. We're working on that in Stortinget. We got a little bit on our way last week, and we're going to keep doing that. DKK 2.5 billion for the strengthening of the school per year. years, which was SV's proposal in the election campaign, are not overpriced, are not too much. It's actually a little bit too small. You in the Workers' Party know just as well as we do that it takes 14 billion kroner just to get the school builders up and stand. SV believes that there is more responsible policy than not spending 1 billion kroner on the oil fund. Now 79 billion is charged to the Government's budget. If we turned out $78 billion, we would have had $1 billion of investments every year for four years in high school. If we also redeployed the use of shipowners' taxes, close again some holes in the tax system that only the richest in Norway can make use of, we had the one and a half billion we needed to do the school effort that SV suggested. $2.5 billion is not more than $1⁄2 pst. by the State budget. If you want, and think that knowledge is most important, this is not more than what is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1341	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1344	It is natural to use the forthcoming turn of the century to raise the perspective slightly beyond the current issues. We go out of a century with strong ideological breaks, with war and with dissatisfaction, but also with enormous progress for many people. One of the explanations for the low turnout in September was that the parties allegedly have become too similar. Ideologies are declared dead again. I'll say it like this: some of the ideologies are dead. Others are weakened and diluted. Today, for example, is not said to exist any genuine socialist party in this hall. The idea of European policy that has been most effective throughout the century we are now behind is the liberal one. More and more are now looking for answers in the liberal space, in the breakup between individual freedom and the good Community solutions. The oldest party in Norway was founded in the spirit of radical political liberalism. The Left has lost in political strength as a party, we have gained from the fact that our ideas have come to pass in other parties and in society. But no other party, like the Left, can represent the liberal basic vision. A party independent of its specific interests has special prerequisites for contributing to the holistic development of a society in which sectoral interests are very strong. The reactions to the suspension of the Freedom of Speech Commission show these contradictions. The Commission has done a thorough and good job based on a principle-based overall view. This can easily drown in the attack of limited interests, as we have already seen. The left wants to have a complete and principled superstructure on these important issues. The Commission is talking about the free, authoritative person. The concept is almost identical to the one referred to by the Left as the citizen. A free, open and democratic society requires free and conscious citizens, who take responsibility for themselves, for each other and for the community. This tension creates good life and the good solutions. Values must be broken down in open debate. It was therefore natural that Thorbjørn Jagland in his main post today addressed Left's leader Lars Sponheim when he stressed the importance of having a critical opposition and a critical debate. The left believes in the enlightened and critical public. We believe in the evolving importance of culture, and we stress the school's task of educating independent, conscious citizens who do not accept anything but make their own choices. Universities shall not only train useful workers. They should also be an intellectual counter-power. Therefore, the Left will have strong, independent academic environments. I think we're now going into a time when we're going to form even more liberal Norway. In this society, intolerance, racism and prejudice will become more and more accomplices, placed on the scrapheap of history in the same way that the totalitarian ideology of which they are in many ways a product. But it's still a long way to go before we have something to boast of. Many immigrants and children of immigrants are placed in a kind of service class, in jobs that the Nordics don't want. We abuse valuable forces. I hope this year's election campaign represents a lasting change of mood in the sometimes unworthy debate on immigration and refugee issues in Norway. The left has formulated some of its visions for liberal Norway under the headings: an innovative Norway, a sustainable Norway and a simpler Norway. A simpler Norway is necessary to restore legitimacy and strength to the public sector, through efficient and service-oriented activities. The welfare community is facing major challenges, and we cannot allow resources to be wasted, so that the tasks are not properly solved and the confidence in Community solutions is undermined. We need an innovative Norway, because we need to get away from the traditional Norwegian commodity clamp and into a more knowledge-based business development. Therefore, the Left will focus on education, research and entrepreneurship. We are pleased that the Government has started a necessary and important stepping up of research efforts. Strong commercial interests are more concerned with maintaining established structures. It's not like it's just the government that's braked. The left will also be a lawyer for the unborn business. We want good conditions for personal ownership. This is not to support the rich but necessary and correct industrial policies, including the community. The left will have a sustainable Norway. We are disappointed with the conservatism that characterises the major opposition parties on environmental issues. The struggle to expand the last watercourses, to build gas power plants with outdated technology while the renewal takes place at great speed, is not just conservative, it's reactionary. The majority have almost parked the position of the Green Tax Commission and thus fail to use the most effective instruments for a better environment, both in the short and long term. We see more hope in the local work on Agenda 21, where already 150 municipalities and all counties are in the process of making sustainable development plans. It is also important for the Government to present a major report on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state in the autumn. Rune Slagstad, in the book «National Strategies», defined left capitalism as a governance compromise between market efficiency and ethical and democratic considerations. This remains fundamental to the Left, and it is a major challenge at a time of globalisation and liberalisation in the world economy. Old control instruments no longer work. The answer to this is not to oppose globalisation or to blame market forces for everything that is bad and difficult. There are many enough examples of how wrong it can be if nations try to shut themselves down behind protectionism and create their own rules of play. The point must be to strengthen international rules in order to ensure democratic, social, human rights and environmental standards in trade and relations. The point must be to use market economy efficiency and flexibility for the benefit of individuals, society and the environment. The left will control in large and release in small. The goal is what serves the sum of individuals best, not ideological adversities about the total blessings of the market economy or total inoperability. The reasonable balances are here, as in many other contexts, in the liberal center. We also see major challenges in the debate on structures and ownership of the financial industry, the oil industry and other major industries. The left is committed to finding the balance between important national interests in the form of Norwegian ownership and Norwegian environments of competence and an adaptation to a new reality that requires more internationally oriented and stronger entities in these industries. The answer is not to create approximate monopolies in the Norwegian market. The left will now, as before, be in the first row in combating power concentrations. They do not serve the interests of consumers. They're not in the interests of society either. Following the local elections of the autumn, the mayor invited the debate on the falling turnout. The left took up this already in the election campaign and presented an action plan in 20 points to strengthen local democracy, including the dissemination of local elections and less state overarching. No other parties took up their glove before the election. Afterwards, there have been some on the track, among others Thorbjørn Jagland, who in an article in Dagbladet addresses some of these questions. What Jagland writes is not new and alarming. The new thing is, he's the one who's writing it. He takes a massive settlement with the belief in centralisation and speaks for openness and flexibility – good liberal values that have been contrary to social democratic thinking for decades. The new century bears great potential. The left looks with optimism and confidence in the challenges we face, nationally and internationally. Poverty problems are still pressing, but significant improvements have also been made in recent years. Democracy is increasingly gaining ground. A more open world makes it harder to oppress your own people without consequences. The left is Norway's oldest party and has a proud history. Today we can play an important role as the genuine, liberal centre party. Government participation gives us the opportunity to change our policy in many important areas. It concerns industrial policy, education policy, environmental policy, the simplification of public services and the pursuit of welfare and social justice. The left will also be involved in stamping the Norway to be designed in a new century: if it comes to us, it will be liberal Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1404	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1407	I have to admit that the West has managed to sell itself as a party that wanted to enter the Government in order to increase transparency, vent into the Workers' Party's corridors of power and increase the ability of people to express themselves freely. They may not have been able to put their opinions into practice. In a debate on freedom of speech on TV not long ago, the representative Kvassheim said that all the old stones had to be snuffed in order for freedom of expression to prevail. Even the marketing law, which prevents discrimination against sex advertising, should be abolished. Kvassheim seems to think that we live in such a healthy society, with so powerful people, that our attitudes will steer the bikini away from the car coats, as we once did. Then my question is, who is it that governs the liberal societies of the Left? In fact, in no way does the Left in the government position feel that press support is so important. Time and again, they agree to negotiate a weakening of press support — a mechanism underlined by the freedom of expression Commission is one of the most important for freedom of expression in the public space. Here are my questions to the representative: Is there no control tools for the Left, such as: laws that provide positions or financial support schemes, such as press support, which improve freedom of expression? Or is the liberal left's only principle the market forces, the only forces that provide a healthy society with the rightful human being?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1414	I would first like to correct the obvious misunderstanding that it has not become more transparent as a result of the new government's handling of these kinds of questions. The Ministry of Economic Affairs, for which I have recently seen a statistics, can show that transparency is being met in many more cases. What's equally interesting is that the interest in getting documents is significantly increased now, when you know that the possibility of getting a yes is greater than before. With regard to the exciting and difficult debate on freedom of expression, our starting point is the same as for a unanimous Commission that has worked on these issues for two and a half years, that the difficult debates and the difficult balances are the most effective if we meet and take a settlement with unwanted opinions and opinions we strongly disagree with, in the open, democratic space. We have seen that in terms of refugee policy, where I believe that the debate that has taken place on immigration issues has caused us to see a change of attitude. That's how I think it's also possible to do it in a number of other areas. And the left is the party that says that we want to have the overall superstructure of this debate to which the Freedom of Speech Commission puts up, instead of going into the problematic areas and then area by area saying what we don't want, and possibly creating a law that forbids it. So the Left wants this debate, which is now going to last six months, to have a different starting point than the Labour Party seems to think. But we're also dependent on the fact that there should be rules that set limits. For example, the provisions on racism contained in the law go as follows: The Freedom of Speech Commission does not come in to adjust, nor do we. The question of injury and disrespect is also in place, but there are questions about allowing something more to take these settlements in the open, democratic space. As far as press support is concerned, I note that the Workers' Party in its budget arrangements does not have adjustments in relation to the level to which it is now being added by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1424	Norway is big, and there are buses and trains across the country. However, it is a fact that collective provision can never be so good that users can be satisfied with it. Despite the fact that I am aware that the Left wants to improve the provision of collective services in the districts, I assume that the representative Kvassheim agrees that unlimited funds cannot be spent on this. In District Norway, after all, there is not a train and bus that is the main means of transport, but a car. The car ensures that people have the opportunity to stay in the districts. Nevertheless, the Left is involved in driving the petrol taxes to heaven and making it considerably more expensive and difficult to continue to live in District Norway. I've sometimes wondered about the seeming double morale of in electing to tell the voters that we want to make it easier and better to live in District Norway, while at the same time the Left Party in this room practises the difficulty of people's ability to live where they want and thrive. What makes the Left think it's okay for people with a high need for car transport to continue to pay the world's highest taxes on petrol? Is it reasonable that an oil producing country should have 80 pst. of the total price of petrol included in charges? Does the representative, Mr Kvassheim, really believe that maintaining the extremely high level of taxes on petrol and excluding people in Foreign Norway from the possibility of proper transport of their own?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1431	There seems to be a broad political consensus today about the price level that we have on petrol, and I also expect that there would be good opportunities to join the arrangement that is in the budget, which represents an increase in the prices of 2 pst. That's the same thing as the normal price rise in society. I agree with the assessment that the replicator had here regarding the importance of the car in the district. I think a lot of people have underestimated that. The car is an essential means of transport for maintaining residence and for enjoying well-being in the districts. That's why our challenge in terms of car use is towards the big cities, building alternatives, collective solutions that make more people choose to travel collectively and leave the car at home. I think the government has met this challenge in a good way, and we focus on driving in the centre through positive tools and facilitating the use of the car in the district. It is not exactly as it was attempted to produce that this government has a weak policy in relation to the districts. As has been pointed out by a number of previous speakers in today's debate, the Government has, over several years, put a massive effort into facilitating more people to find their good life in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1438	Kvassheim said we had to look for the solutions in the liberal space. In a number of policy areas, I think it could be in the tightest shape. In the case of private ownership and small businesses, the Left has maintained a smooth and good profile, and Kvassheim was in the post. He said there were no socialist parties in this room. Whether it is right or wrong is to a large extent uninteresting, but in this area of policy it is at least that choosing the policy of the party that is the first choice of the central government in this budget debate will have as a consequence a policy that can at least be compared to it. Then I think about ownership of business, ownership of the means of production. Because that's what Jagland pointed out in his post, which is quite right: the company after business is moving abroad. But instead of stopping and asking why, you prescribe a medicine before making the diagnosis. The medicine is very crazy. It is apparent from the Labour Party's demands for the necessary conversions for the budget for the next year, which consists in making it even less interesting to own Norwegian business. And one will depend on the last point of the Workers' Party that is under industry and employment: increasing state role on the owner's side. I think it's a policy that the Left actually doesn't have much sense of. I hope that they will be able to see through to the forthcoming negotiations. But what I could imagine asking Kvassheim about is: Share Kvassheim Sponheim's analysis of the point of intersection of the best business policy in this room? Is it at the intersection of the centre and the Workers' Party, or does the representative agree with Sponheim that it is primarily at the intersection of the Right and Center?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1447	In the field of industrial policy, the Right and Left share views in key areas related to small and private ownership. On the other hand, the right view is that what we see as important instruments in industrial policy is not of such importance. For example, the Right wants to delete the SND system. This will mean very changing framework conditions for many companies that are currently using this scheme to establish and grow. The left takes up much of the good in the Right Business Policy, but also other elements that the Right doesn't care about, and I think the whole of our policy is as good as the Right has. Gabrielsen seems to be concerned about a possible budgetary arrangement between the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party. Then I just want to remind you that that perspective was no worse than that one last year, both in the Labour Party and in the Right, was open to cooperation when it came to the budget. Now we see what comes out of these negotiations. There is no doubt that what is central to the Left is helping us to get a tax discussion and a tax solution that does not lead to aggravating conditions for the businesses we depend on to create new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1454	It's very rare to hear a post from a left-wing representative who doesn't dwell much on Left's proud history, as it's called. In this way you were not disappointed today either, as there was also an important point with Mr. Kvassheim. And if you stay a little bit at what is left's proud history: at the last great wave of globalisation in our century, at the beginning and until the first world war, when the world was actually about as globalized in terms of the share of world trade as it is today, at the time, the Left chose to see that there were some important national tasks, such as, among other things. resulted in concession provisions for hydropower. Now we are within the second great wave of globalisation in our century, and we still have some of the same issues – if not hydropower, we now have, for example. the banking system, which also affected Kvassheim. What could be interesting, when the left has now chosen a whole new line in relation to what has been a traditional left-hand position, at least if you look back in time, is that there are important and important reasons why national ownership in a banking system is a point. So when you've built up all the other obstacles that make it impossible to favor a nation by law, you finally have ownership as an important point. The ownership of the two dominant private banks or commercial banks we have in Norway has come to the state's hands through the banks' own miseries. It has made us now have a sensible banking structure, where the state also has a reasonable money position that gives good returns, and which allows the Storting to now largely determine how that competition should be. Then I register that the left only comes with a bid – and the first bid that has been made when it was open is from a Swedish/Finnish big bank – says that then we're just going to sell out. The owners of the major banks are, of course, some smart ones, they want to buy two heads for one penny. But leave that commandment. My point to the parliamentary leader in the Left, Kvassheim, is: does he not see that there is a completely unprofessional structural policy in the banking community without further delay just to sell out when you get the first bid, without the Storting having taken the time to thoroughly review what structure you want? And doesn't Kvassheim, as former left-wing leaders have thought, mean that national ownership of such important sectors is actually a point in itself?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1465	I can assure Djupedal that we will continue the lines from the left's history to which he referred, that's part of the ballast that we're proud of, and that we need to continue using. For example, it will. be part of the starting point of the important debate we are going to have on Statoil and on the handling of DEATH, which comes up in the Storting to the autumn. When it comes to banking, it's not exactly what Djupedal says, that we opened up to accept the first and best bid that came. But we didn't do the opposite either. We did not say no that the state could sell itself into the credit fund if one from an overall assessment found that it could be useful. Such an overall assessment could be that instead of finding a solution with the Bank of Credit and DnB together, a few solutions could strengthen DnB in order to secure its position, while the Bank of Credit could play with another Nordic bank – for example. It was such an opening that lay in our national government decision, not a desire to sell right there and then, as Djupedal makes it. In other areas too, it is important to have national ownership and a national industry, for example: it concerns the maritime sector. There seems to be a complete absence of SV policies, which facilitate a tax regime towards this industry that will lead to deflagration, and that important environments and important jobs cannot be retained here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1474	So far today, speakers from all parties, except the Left, have been concerned about the distribution policy, that is. that there will be a greater difference between the rich and the poor in this country. So we have to give more to those who have the least, to those who have the most difficult everyday life in this country. If we're going to make it, the rich have to do more, and I'll ask the Left if they're in agreement. For every time the Left has said about any budgetary cooperation with the Labour Party, I haven't heard it has been with special enthusiasm. I've only recorded that every time Kvassheim makes a statement, it's about what tax issues the Left will be against for different groups. If we're going to get a distribution, someone has to pay more into the community, I think everyone's agreed on that. But then I'm going to challenge Kvassheim to tell us what group he thinks he's going to contribute more to the community. Because if we're going to get a real real real real reallocation, we're going to have to say that someone has to do more to get more – as the weakest in our society should get. In the end, when the previous representative from the Workers' Party challenged Kvassheim on the press stand, he would not say anything about Left's vision, but he re-reprinted to the Workers' Party. But it could be very interesting to hear what the Left thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1481	The left is a supporter of maintaining the press stand, and I don't think the cut of $30 million. kr, which was last year, had any impact on the condition of freedom of expression in the country. On the contrary, it was part of a cut-off that helped one to gain stability in the economy, also to the delight of the players in the media industry. So to the question of whether we're concerned with distribution policy. The answer is yes. On the question of which measures might be applicable: Last year the Government proposed to increase the capital tax rate from 28 to 29 p.m. It's a good distribution grip, especially combined with arrangements to give tax relief to those who have the least. The working party said no to it in cash. I have recorded that Yngve Hågensen would go even further than what the Government did last year, that is to increase the tax rate to 30. While he is working on processing central government colleagues in the Workers' Party, it seems that a person probably has to wait with that tax treatment. Now the challenge is to find others, in dialogue with the Workers' Party. But what we have said is that the solutions that the Workers' Party has come with and voted down in the Stortinget year after year, unfortunately do not have the distribution effect that the Workers' Party seems to believe. On the contrary, they help to weaken businesses that we are totally dependent on for value creation, to the joy of the community. That is our starting point for the debate that is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1490	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1493	We're in the middle of a big period. The working party has been in opposition. A majority in Stortinget has wanted a different policy than ours. The central parties have chosen to cooperate with the Right and the Progress Party on budgets and other important issues. The right has had greater influence than the lot has had in many years. The Progress Party has never had more impact in Norwegian policy than they have had in the last two years. So it had to be a center government to give the Progress Party extensive influence here in the Storting. Now it is possible that the direction can be reversed, that the policy can be shifted to the left. From the government parties it has been said that the good solutions are found at the intersection between the Workers' Party and the Centre, or as the head of the Center Party, Odd Roger Enoksen, recently said to the Newspaper: ‘The issues that become central this year and next year are exclusively issues where it is natural to seek cooperation with Ap, also in budgetary context.’ Among other things, the Enoch the distribution policy, rural policy, environmental policy and aid policy. In the Workers' Party, we agree with Mr Enoksen. There are long traditions in Norwegian policies for cooperation between the Centre and the Workers' Party. It was a collaboration with the Center Party that gave us the crisis settlement in 1935. This agreement was the political basis for the process of getting the Norwegian economy out of the depression of the 1930s. When the Workers' Party was set up with minority government from 1986, it was with the central parties that we agreed on budgetary policy and on many other important major issues. Cooperation between the Labour Party and the Centre Parties has never been easy, but it has been important. Because when this doesn't work, the right parties have had influence in Norwegian politics. We saw that under the Willoch and Syse governments, and we've seen that in the last two years. For the Workers' Party, therefore, there is no aim to drive the centre parts into the arms of the Right and Advance Party. On the contrary, we want to cooperate with the center. That is why we have agreed to negotiate the budget for next year, and we have opened up government cooperation for the first time in the history of the Workers' Party. Our impression is that the desire for cooperation is mutual. We will do what we can to ensure the success of the negotiations on the 2000 budget. But we also have clear demands. The most important thing for us is that the budget contributes to ensuring well-being and creating a fairer distribution. Fair distribution is about strong Community solutions, about good health care and a good school. That's why we want to strengthen the local government's economy so that there's more money for these purposes. That is why we want to ensure that there is a safe place for our children to have children's playgrounds and school leisure arrangements. The working party will have 10,000 more kindergarten places next year and increase operating grants to reduce parental pay in kindergartens and school leisure schemes. Fair distribution is about giving everyone the opportunity to get a dwelling. Therefore, the Workers' Party will grant grants to build 1000 new student homes and several rental homes. Fair distribution is also about work for everyone. Unemployment in Norway is low. The oil price is high, and the Norwegian economy is solid. But we know that it is precisely in good times that we often make the mistakes that can bring about a new decline and increase our vulnerability to times of low oil prices. That is why we must be on guard against developments that are going in the wrong direction. Now we're building down the businesses and industries we're going to live on when the oil revenues fall. In the 1990s, growth in competitive industries was long stronger than in the protected sector. Now it's the opposite. Last year we built private, competitive businesses in relation to the rest of the economy, and this is due to the same trend this year. From 1988 to 1997, Norwegian industrial enterprises increased their market share on export markets. Now it's the other way around, they're losing market shares. Until 1997, industrial employment grew in this country, now it is the opposite. The number of jobs in industry is falling sharply both in the oil industry and in other industrial activities. The Labour Party believes that we need to get a fairer tax system, which makes working more profitable. Through the 1992 tax reform, the Workers' Party contributed to a significant reduction in tax rates. The overtime tax was reduced from over 70 pst. for less than 50 pst. The tax on profits and on enterprises was reduced from over 50 pst. to 28 pst. But even if the tax rates are lowered, those that have the most already pay more in taxes now than before. Therefore, tax reform has not increased inequality, on the contrary. Without the reform, the actual tax on capital would be lower and the inequalities in Norway would be greater. So lower rates have increased taxes for those who earn the most. This is because many exemptions, deductions and tax losses have been removed. We know that there are always those who have the highest incomes, who have the greatest opportunity to use holes and deductions in the tax system. And still, many with high incomes and large wealth pay little or nothing in taxes. That's why the Workers' Party is going in to close new gaps in the tax system. We want to lower the tax for those who have low incomes, and we reject the central government's proposal that many thousands more with very common incomes, about NOK 270 000, pay top taxes, which they didn't do before. In this way, we will contribute to a fairer tax system that makes working more profitable. A fair society is also a society built on tolerance and respect for other people. This year's municipal elections were the last elections in this century. One of the things the election campaign should be remembered for is that it is the first time in many years that it has not been possible to mobilise voices on prejudices and simple xenophobia, on the contrary. Those who tried it lost. Impartiality and xenophobia lost the municipal elections of the year. It is a victory for human dignity, a victory for tolerance and a victory for respect for other people who have a different culture, a different color of skin and a different religion from the one that has been common in Norway. It promises well for the next century. No problem of distribution is greater and more urgent than the fight against poverty. The Iron Curtain is gone in Europe, but instead a poverty step has come to light. People in our neighboring country live in distress, and it threatens the stability and peace of our continent. At the same time, we know that an estimated 1 billion people in the Third World live in what the UN has defined as absolute poverty, that is. they do not receive enough food and do not have access to basic goods such as: clean water. Nor have we been able to deal with one of the world's most serious environmental problems, the greenhouse effect and emissions of the gases that contribute to global warming. This is one of the most important questions of our time. That's why we have to be busy with them and never give up the work of solving them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1530	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1534	I am amazed that the representative, Mr Stoltenberg, who is the Labour Party's leading energy policy, did not touch on our energy challenges, and perhaps, in particular, on gas generation. I would still like to remind you of the party leader Thorbjørn Jagland's chronicle in Dagbladet on 29 September, where he stated: ‘We may experience that, in a few years’ time, we will have to import electricity from Dutch gas plants that get its gas in pipes from Norway. Then we have put ourselves in a ridiculous situation both as an industrial nation and as an environmental nation. And the blame must be placed on depraved politicians." Who, then, are these paralysed politicians that Thorbjørn Jagland mentions in his chronicle? Both the Advance Party and the Right have taken a clear stand in the gas power case. It is precisely the Workers' Party that has the key to whether we are going to transform our huge gas resources into electricity production, and whether we are going to have this production and the value creation on Norwegian hands. And it is precisely the Workers' Party that has shown the paralysis of action that the party leader points to in the chronicle. My question to the representative Stoltenberg is therefore: Does Thorbjørn Jagland's statement mean that the Workers' Party has now discarded the action pulp in the gas power case, and will the party now take a clear stand for expansion, so that we can get that value creation on Norwegian hands?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1549	It was a labor party government that in 1996 produced a big message that opened for the first time that we could use Norwegian natural gas to produce power in Norway and not just sell gas to neighboring countries, so that they would produce power that we could buy back. And it was a labor party government, the Thorbjørn Jagland government, which in the spring of 1997 gave concession for the construction of gas power plants in Norway. But then the problem has arisen that, in addition to the emission requirements laid down by the State pollution regulators, with which the company Naturkraft is not entirely satisfied, the owners have made it quite clear that they will not take an investment decision in the first two years. It is not only linked to SFT’s emission requirements, government requirements, but it is primarily linked to the fact that the price in the Nordic electricity market is now so low that it is not possible to find profitability with the projects that have so far been launched by Natural Power. It changes that no matter how many times we vote in favour of proposals from the Progress Party and other parties on gas power plants, there will be no more gas power plants. So it's the profitability of the projects that's now holding them back. Other projects have been launched, for example: in Nord-Trøndelag, but the NVE has not even completed treatment, so it is a time for a concrete investment decision to be taken. The working party has opened up gas power plants, we have arranged for the various projects, and we are of course still at that point of view. But then we're busy with one more thing. It is that the use of gas in Norway must take place within our international environmental obligations. That is why we have been a driving force for new mechanisms in the international environmental agreements, such as quota purchases and joint implementation, and we have been getting more and more social-democratic parties involved in this concept. And it's important to do, because then we also get quotas and taxes on coal power in our neighbouring country. Then the power price will rise and the profitability of gas power will increase, and then we can live on self-produced power.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1558	The most important thing to take up fair distribution and subsampling is that Norway is walking around, and that people have work. There I really agree with Jens Stoltenberg, for saying so. In addition to investing in the knowledge industry, we must invest in what we are all good at if we are to create jobs and well-being in the new millennium as well. The North has always our good at sea, it's itself fishing or shipping. "Whereever vessel can float, there he is the first man," we sing. The Christian People's Party is concerned that, as Thorbjørn Jagland said earlier today, we must not waste our opportunities. That's why we have a reindeer tax that gives seafarers and fleets the ability to compete in a world that seemed to be ever smaller. And we're lucky. 3,000 more Norwegians sail, we've got a five-fold increase in the number of teaching places at sea, young people believe in maritime education again, and two-thirds of the fleet sail under the Norwegian flag. Doesn't the Labour Party think that this is good, and doesn't it see that there is at least a certain consequence of the Norwegian tax system we have for fleets, which can be compared to other countries? I'm not saying that the reindeer tax is optimal at all points. That's not what I'm saying. But doesn't economist Jens Stoltenberg see the need to provide an important nourishment for Coast Norway with the elbow room to enable them to assert themselves in the international economy, so that we just don't lose market shares where we're actually good? What I'm asking is, is there any room for a renewal of the idea in the Labour Party towards the year 2000, so that static attitudes don't presuppose our possibilities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1567	We in the Workers' Party are very opposed to static attitudes playing out our opportunities. We're very clear on that. But we are also clear on a couple of other things: a very good political principle and also a very good economic principle is to treat different businesses and industries in a non-discriminatory manner. That's why we said that the tax on corporations and profits should be set at a very low level, it should be set at 28 pst. - from 50 pst. This is down to 28 pst., which we got through in 1992. But in return, there should be no exemption or exemption from this rule – everyone can tolerate 28 pst. That did not mean the majority of the Stortinget. They said that someone would have zero, for example. the shipping companies. But then the center parties thought that the shipowners should have zero, but that 28 pst. was too low for everyone else. So what the center parties are proposing is that someone pay more than 28 pst. And so we went in for an increase in this rate. All the IT companies and all the other companies can afford to pay a lot more than 28 pst. So for some people, 28 pst. too high. But then I'd say there's a lot of things you can do with the shipping tax. You can go back to the old system. But it's not sure the Workers' Party is so twisted and twisted here, there are other good middle solutions. For example, the central government made some excellent proposals to close the most meaningless holes in the shipping tax, which makes the system a tax-free savings box for some of the richest people in Norway, and which makes Statnett and Veileck – and I think Orkla, with some reservations – now operate shipping to obtain tax exemptions. It may not be a business policy task for all potential companies, investors and shareholders to find some boat or other, call it a shipping company, and then get zero tax in that way. We have many good proposals that the Government made last year, but as they rejected in a sort of compromise with the Right and the Advance Party. We might repeat them, and then we'll see what the central parties are doing in negotiations with us when it comes to voting for what they were for last year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1574	Yesterday, the Workers' Party and the government parties announced that they would negotiate the budget, and Jens Stoltenberg's contributions were now almost a proposal to consider. We can be sure that cohabitation will cost industry dearly. At the same time as the Government announces that next year's unemployment will increase, the current budget, with increased tax requirements from the Workers' Party, will result in further pressure on businesses, and there is little cause for optimism in industry beyond the country. When the Workers' Party now warns of an increase in the tax burden on those they call 'the richest', there is every reason to wonder: What does that mean? How do you define this? All experience shows that the ‘richest’ of that party is well below the pay scale. It also means that people who want to start and run businesses have new problems to contend with. I know the Workers' Party's right, and I'm sure, SMB business owners will now have to invest in a distorted sharing model, they want to remove the stock discount, increase the wealth tax and put new attacks on the so-called AMS scheme. The four-year work party proposal has now been repeated, and it seems that the government parties have now forgotten the characteristics they gave it last year. In other words, if I understand the representative Stoltenberg correctly, the tax screw will now have additional revolutions in business. And then I almost have to ask Stoltenberg if he can define here what the term «richest» must mean, and what taxes and taxes it is that will increase in the order of NOK 2 billion, so that we can already get a clarification on how this will affect. I find it interesting that the representative Stoltenberg now himself says that the industrial employment will go down, while again he wants to hit the yard industry and the subcontractors of the maritime industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1583	The representative Ludvigsen now had some kind of argument that the Right People are doing in many contexts, namely trying to present it as if the Workers' Party is a threat to private Norwegian businesses, the competitive sector, innovation and re-establishment. That's wrong. In the 1990s, we have had the strongest growth in industrial employment, innovation and new business start-ups in many decades in Norway. We have to go back to the early 1970s to find something similar within, for example, innovation and establishment in industrial activities in Norway. It's because we got down on costs, got down on wages, got down on inflation and kept track of the heavy things in the economy. Then came the growth of the private sector, and we had stronger growth in the competitive private sector than we had in the public sector and protected the private sector. Then, of course, it is not that the Workers' Party wants to kill these companies that we have spent a long time and a lot of work to get in place; on the contrary, we want to take care of them. It is after we have got a budgetary settlement between the Right and the Centre parties that in 1998 we experience that Norwegian industry loses market shares and has a downsizing for the first time in 10-15 years. And then there should be a bigger cross of thought for the Right than for us that they have voted in favour of budgets that make the trend in private businesses and industry turn from rise to decline. So to the question of who's rich. At least they are not the ones that the centre parties define as rich: everyone who has a salary of NOK 270 000. They will receive increased taxes with the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. There's an increase in the tax on ordinary employee income, and we're against that. But what we're here to do is, for example, the company tax, which means that many with large assets can cheat away and come out with zero in taxes, it is the combination of very low valuation of commercial properties and stock discounts, which allows one to have 100 million. kr in real wealth and pay zero in taxes on wealth, while if you have NOK 100000 in the bank and are the minimum pensioner, you pay a property tax. That kind of futility we're going to do something about. It's sealing tax holes, and it's going to be more fair and better value-making.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12.ana.ud1160e1592	So the chord change is over. The regulatory time of the morning is approaching the end. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
