ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21.ana.ud1845e27	Honourable co-representatives! Former mayor and governor Lars Breie is dead, 92 years old. Lars Breie met as a staging representative of the Workers' Party from Buskerud in the years 1945 to 1953. Lars Breie was born and raised in Ål in Hallingdal. As a young law student, he took an early interest in politics. Later, he became involved in municipal policy in the rural areas. After completing his legal examination in 1933, he started an attorney's shop in Ål, which he operated until 1948. He was first rapporteur and then rapporteur in Ål in 1940 and in 1945. During the war he was in charge of the civil resistance struggle in Hallingdal. After the release in 1945 he was elected to Stortinget. Here he was a member of the then Protocol Committee, where, as a secretary, he made an important effort in the comprehensive investigation cases that were dealt with after the war. The work of the Protocol Committee gave him a solid insight into the constitutional situation, and he had great recognition of his ability, impartiality and loyalty to the constitution and its rules of play. He became chairman of the committee after the 1949 election. The objectivity and care that characterized his work was undoubtedly one of the main reasons why the attention was directed to Lars Breie when the position of chairman of the National Audit Office was to be filled. Although Lars Breie was a representative of the Workers' Party, C. J. Hambro was his warmest follower and the one who strongly agreed that Breie should have this responsible position. This might tell more than anything else about the respect and esteem he enjoyed in all circles. He had a unanimous stature behind him when he was elected a national auditor in 1950. He was re-elected every four years until 1978, when he retired. In 1979 he was appointed commander of the Order of St. Olav for his public service. Lars Breie also held prominent positions of trust in the international arena. Among other things, he was from 1955 to 1961 a member of the UN Board of Auditors, a three-man committee that carried out the constitutional control of the use of the World Organisation’s funds. Here he was president in 1956 and 1960. He was also Chairman of the Board of Auditors of the International Energy Agency and the Board of Auditors of the OECD. In 1963 he was elected external auditor of the World Health Organisation, a post he held until 1974. Here at home he also had a number of public duties, among others. as a member of the National Council for Rationalisation. Lars Breie had a lukewarm and lovable creature, and his conduct was still and stowed. Here at Stortinget he was highly respected for his skill and well liked by all. Those who got to know Lars Breie about a long life in political and public service will remind him of his ability to cooperate, justice and integrity. In deep respect, we bring peace to his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21.ana.ud1845e48	The representative Haakon Blankenborg, who has been on leave, has once again taken up his seat. A number of permit applications are available: on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: André Kukkestad and Rikke LindFor Finnmark County: Einar Johansen and Kirsti SaxiFor Nordland County: Lisbeth HolandFor Rogaland County: Helga RullestadFor Telemark County: Marthe Scarning Lund and Gunn Marit HelgesenFor Vestfold County: Karin Lian3. Einar Johansen and Lisbeth Holand are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Mimmi Beivi and Inge Myrvoll.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-21.ana.ud1845e322	There is no record.
