ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e40	The representatives of Ursula Evje, Terje Johansen, Mimmi Beevi, Marit Tingelstad and Britt Hildeng, who have been licensed, have again taken up their seats. The called alternates, for East Agder County May Britt Lunde and for Hedmark County Magnhild Byseth Olrud, have taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: by the Christian People's Party on sick leave of the representative Anne Britt Stråtveit from Tuesday 19 January until further notice by the Central Party's Group on the leave of the representative John Dale from 19 January until 21 January to take part in a study trip to Kaliningrad under the direction of the Centre Group of the Nordic Council. These applications shall be dealt with without delay and shall be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for the Hordaland County, Bjørg Hope Galtung, is currently abroad and for that reason prevented from meeting on the Stortinget. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave:For the West Agder County: Sigmund KroslidFor the Hordaland County: Magnar Lussand2. Sigmund Kroslid and Magnar Lussand are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Anne Britt Stråtveit and John Dale.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e105	Sigmund Kroslid and Magnar Lussand are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e110	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament on Tuesday and Wednesday – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e115	I suggest Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e120	Per Ove Width is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Wideth is unanimously elected president of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e128	The representative Per-Kristian Foss will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e132	On behalf of Børge Brende and myself, I allow myself to make proposals to repeal the regulation of 30 December 1998 amending the regulation of 13 May 1991 No. 336 on tax-free transfers between limited liability companies and between unit-holders with substantially the same interests.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e137	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e147	Europe is developing. There's a wave of change across our continent. In the south, we are facing a very critical situation in Kosovo, which I recently visited as the OSCE President. The forces that do not want peace are strong, even in our own part of the world. Our contribution to peace and stability in Europe through the OSCE has I explained earlier. However, in the light of recent dramatic developments, I will return in an appropriate way to the Great Britain on the situation in Kosovo. In the north there are major environmental problems that remain unresolved. We do not know the outcome of political, economic and social developments in Russia. But it will affect us, not least through our close relations with North-West Russia. In the east, NATO and the EU face historically important enlargement processes. The applicant countries of both these organisations regard them as the main anchor for their safety and stability. But stability cannot be created in Europe without Russia's involvement and economic and social development in the poorest countries. This includes the former Soviet republics of the Caucasus and Central Asia. Here, pan-European cooperation in the OSCE and the Council of Europe plays an important role. The diverse challenges we face can only be solved through broad cooperation between nations and international organisations. At the same time, the euro and the important third phase of economic and monetary union, EMU, one of the most far-reaching policy projects in the EU, are being launched, by which no one today can see with certainty the outcome. This is Europe. So how are we going to meet this development? A colleague has said that it is not just to give the carpenter a hammer when a construction works are going to travel. An entire toolbox is needed. We have our foreign policy toolbox in the UN, NATO, EEA, EFTA, the OSCE, the Council of Europe, the Western Union and in a number of regional cooperation arrangements – such as Nordic and Nordic Baltic cooperation, the Barents Council, the Baltic Sea Council and a close neighbourhood to Russia. It is by using and developing these that we are best to create the interdependence that is essential for peace and stability, growth and well-being. The 1994 referendum clarified Norway’s relationship with the EU. The people's no to membership commits and shall be respected. The EEA Agreement is Norway’s platform for cooperation with the EU. It has a broad uproar in Stortinget. The Government will use the agreement as a tool to safeguard and promote Norwegian interests. The no has led Norway into international isolation, as some have claimed before the 1994 referendum. Norway’s role and participation in international cooperation has been and is significant – apart from being a member of the EU. The government attaches great importance to exploiting Norway’s freedom of action, political and economic. Norway shall use its voice in the international forums in which we participate. We have important contributions to make. We have strong traditions relating to work for well-being and fair distribution, for human rights, for equality, for cooperation with social partners, for transparency and democracy. We have strong traditions relating to cooperation on common interests and values in the Nordic countries, to cooperation with Russia and to peacekeeping, humanitarian and conflict prevention. Norway is a significant energy producer with large natural resources and a solid economy. Four-year presentations on the neighbourhoods and the OSCE deepened important aspects of the Government's Europe policy. Today, I want to put the emphasis on our relationship with the EU. What are the main challenges facing development in Europe, and in particular in the EU, Norway? What does the Government do to meet them? I would like to focus on four areas of development: firstly, enlargement of the European Union; secondly, economic and monetary union; EMU; thirdly, security and defence cooperation; and fourthly, judicial cooperation. But I start with what is Norway's platform, the EEA Agreement. This month the EEA Agreement has been in force for five years. It is a stable framework for cooperation with our main trading partners and close neighbours. The agreement is important in order to safeguard the interests of business. Norwegian trade with the EU today amounts to more than 70 pst. of our total foreign trade. New legislation developed in the EU is being continuously incorporated into Norwegian laws, regulations and administrative provisions by the EEA Agreement. It places great demands on our ability to assess the impact on Norway at the earliest possible time and to influence the design of the legislation. We need to go thoroughly through each act, in particular with regard to safety, health and the environment. The government will take advantage of all the possibilities offered by the agreement to attend to Norwegian interests in this work. If we encounter problems, we will focus on reaching agreed solutions. The right of veto has been negotiated in order to be used. The use of this right is a problem which is bad for a theoretical discussion. It must be assessed in the context of a specific case and in the light of this and our overall national interests. The government has started a review of the EEA work and will make use of external expertise. The aim is to strengthen work in four areas: Firstly, the Government is now reviewing the management of EEA work. The Agreement mainly affects all departments. The work carried out at different administrative stages must be carried out in cooperation with relevant organisations and interest groups. We also need to ensure that Norway acts with a coordinated EEA external policy in relation to the EU and the EU Member States. Secondly, we want maximum involvement and involvement in EEA work. The EEA Agreement concerns not only central government but also local authorities, social partners and non-governmental non-governmental non-governmental organisations. These are institutions and organisations with valuable competences. Thirdly, the Government will continue its efforts to increase information, transparency and debate on current EEA work. Transparency and transparency are essential for debate and exchange of views. We have already undertaken extensive work to facilitate transparency and communication on EEA work, both for business and work, for other users and for the public. This work will be continued. Information is now available on the Internet. Resources in departments and departments can be contacted. Responding to enquiries from the audience must come as soon as possible. Fourthly, we must ensure optimal access to legislative work in the EU at the earliest possible time in the process. To achieve this, we take advantage of our participation in expert and working groups at the Commission. In parallel, we participate in the discussions on future EEA decisions in the separate EEA bodies. We also need to move in before the European Union has established a common position. Here we need to bring together – political authorities, social partners, management and experts, interest groups and non-governmental organisations. We must be listening to each other – for Norwegian interests – and in this way capture matters that lead to decisions in the EU at the earliest opportunity. In this area, there is likely to be a high potential. This is the Government in the process of clearing up and systematising. We are particularly concerned about how those affected by the EEA process – from the large business and work organisations of the local government and voluntary organisations – can work in relation to the authorities. They must make use of their networks in their work towards the EU institutions and towards the Member States in order to gain an impact on Norwegian interests. Bilateral work with EU Member States is a particularly important channel to promote Norwegian interests. As a non-member, Norway has to work harder in a number of areas than in all meetings. On the other hand, EU cooperation does not oblige us to the same extent, but without alliances, we cannot expect anyone to speak our case when decisions are to be taken in Brussels. The position of the Member States is determined in the capitals. The earlier we get into dialogue with them, the more opportunities we want to get allies into a case. Such contacts cannot and should not be limited to official Norway. Political parties, labour and business organisations, non-governmental organisations and other important social groups should also intensify their work in this area. The Government will encourage networking, in particular within the political parties and their youth organisations and in the voluntary organisations. Within the available framework, we will give priority to supporting such activities. EEA EFTA countries make targeted use of the information and consultation procedures provided for in the EEA Agreement. The EFTA Parliamentary Committee shall work, inter alia, on: how contacts with the European Parliament can be developed in the light of the increased role of Parliament in the EU decision-making process. The government supports this work. The government is facing several important EEA issues in the future. Let me mention, among other things. patents on biotechnology inventions, food additives and baby foods, labelling and authorisation of genetically modified products, differentiated employer’s fee and the Gas Market Directive. Some of these Directives contain provisions which the Government considers not to be acceptable to Norway. The Government therefore proposes that Norwegian legislation in these fields should not be amended. As regards patents on biotechnological inventions, the Netherlands has brought the case before the European Court of Justice and has called for the annulment of the Directive. Since the Directive is EEA-relevant, we are now considering whether Norway should also use the access we have to express our position to the Court of Justice. The government has signaled its willingness to reserve itself against legislation it finds unacceptable, particularly in areas relating to health, safety and the environment. Where we are convinced that our solutions are the best, we will all work hard to gain insight into our views in the Nordic countries and in other EU countries. Experience has shown that the EU often follows and develops its legislation in the direction of our standards, although it may take a long time. This applies, for example: chemicals. In the case of genetically modified organisms, we have seen a positive development in both labelling and emphasising ethical considerations. We want to focus on transparency and information in the work on these issues. With few exceptions, Norwegian companies have access to the entire Union market in the same way as EU companies. This contributes to the maintenance of Norwegian holdings in Norway. Competition-regulating cooperation, State aid and public monopolies are subject to the same legislation throughout the EEA territory. The Code on Public Acquisitions provides Norwegian enterprises with the opportunity to compete for contracts in line with EU enterprises. Public acquisitions are made annually for approximately DKK 5 500 billion in the EEA territory. However, for fish and fish products market access is limited in the EEA Agreement. It is also unclear how individual provisions should be understood. I am thinking in particular of Protocol 9 to the Agreement, which regulates trade in fish. The EU-Norway salmon agreement illustrates these conditions. The government is committed to clarify such outstanding issues and thus improve the conditions for Norwegian fish exports to the EU. There are negotiations with the EU on the mutual expansion of trade in agricultural products. Negotiations on trade in processed agricultural products are likely to start during the year. The EEA Agreement gives us the right to participate in a number of EU programmes, in areas such as environmental and consumer protection, energy saving, research and development and in the field of culture. Participation in EU research programmes is a key element of the overall Norwegian research effort and enables important networking for Norwegian business. The EEA Agreement also ensures mutual recognition of evidence of education and professional competence and equal access to studies and research. All of this is EEA. It gives us a platform for broad cooperation with the EU. We're still vulnerable. Discussions on the loan and grant scheme illustrate this. It strengthens the demand for Norwegian alertness and knowledge. The EEA Agreement is the basis for our cooperation with the EU, which is our closest partner and a market of major importance for Norwegian business. The Government will exploit and develop the EEA Agreement for the benefit of Norwegian interests. Change processes in Europe are not straight-line, with deadlines set. Trends point in different directions. Substantial uncertainties relate to some of them. We do not know how enlargement negotiations in the EU will proceed, nor do we know whether each applicant country will be able to participate in EU cooperation as a full member from the first day. The unresolved Cyprus question is also an uncertainty factor. Will the present Member States be able to agree on the necessary changes – in agricultural policy, in regional policy, in the financing of enlargement and on future institutional solutions? The questions are many. The answers are so few. However, one thing is clear: Norway has important interests and values to care for regardless of outcome. And we are responsible for contributing to the breaking period that Europe is going through at the threshold of a new millennium. The prerequisite for this is that we always have a realistic relationship with what's happening around us. Enlargement of the EU means that the internal market and the EEA are also expanding. The new Member States will become partners in the EEA and thus close partners for us. It offers opportunities for increased market access, but also presents new challenges. In consultation with industry and the labour market, the Government will carry out a broad review of the impact on Norway and Norwegian interests when new countries join the EU and the EEA. We also need to ensure that the new Member States have knowledge of EEA cooperation and the rights and obligations that come with it. This is an important task, including for the social partners, both nationally and through the EFTA Consultative Committee. EFTA has in recent years concluded free trade agreements with 14 countries in Central and Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean region. When the EU is enlarged, it is a particular task to ensure export conditions for fish and fish products to Central and Eastern Europe. For some fishery products, current free trade agreements between EFTA and the ACs provide full customs freedom, while the EU continues to maintain customs duties on imports from Norway. In adapting these agreements to the EEA, we will work to ensure Norwegian fish exports as well as possible. The government is closely following the expansion process. Regular contacts with the Commission and the Member States have been established. Consultations take place both within the EEA Council and within the EEA Committee. We have also strengthened dialogue with the candidate countries. The Central and Eastern European countries’ applications for membership have put their cooperation in the EU at the forefront of new challenges. The pressure is great to change the functioning of cooperation and to ensure a fairer burden-sharing in an enlarged EU. The southern Member States fear that the financing of enlargement could be at their expense. On the other hand, current net contributors do not consider it appropriate to add new funds to the Community budget. On the contrary, several of them, cited by Germany, require a reduction in their contributions. This will put solidarity in the European Union to the test. The solutions could have a major impact on agricultural policy and regional policy. There is therefore a hard struggle between Member States. They will try to agree on a unified position at the Brussels Summit 24. March 25th. The debate on institutional reforms, such as the composition and size of the Commission and the distribution of the votes of the Member States when decisions are taken by the Council by a qualified majority, could then be launched later this year. These are sensitive issues that were not resolved during the Treaty Conference leading up to the Treaty of Amsterdam. They illustrate the complexity of the agenda on which EU countries need to find a solution before enlargement can be realised. We don't know when the expansion will be completed. However, the process itself will contribute to changing the EU. Enlargement of the EU has always been prepared or followed by deepening existing cooperation. The membership threshold is increasing for new candidate countries. At the same time, integration between the countries already participating is increasing. Changes in regional policy and some parts of the common agricultural policy could have consequences for Norway. For agriculture, the Commission's proposal involves a reduction in EU market prices. At the same time, it is proposed to focus more on the environmental aspects of agricultural policy and an increase in the area and animal aid. The outcome of EU internal reforms will directly affect EU positions in the WTO. The EU is one of several major actors here, and the EU's common positions will therefore form part of the negotiating situation that Norway has to deal with. The government follows these change processes closely, both through discussions with representatives of the European institutions in Brussels and through bilateral contacts in the Member States. The implementation of economic and monetary union and the introduction of the euro from 1 January this year is one of the most extensive policy cooperation projects in the history of EU cooperation. What EMU will bring, and how the process will proceed, is too early to say. However, there is little doubt that it will change EU cooperation in important areas over time. The introduction of a single currency means, first and foremost, the further development of the single market. There will be greater competition between enterprises in the countries involved and cross-border trade will be easier for businesses and the public. When prices of goods and services in several European countries become directly comparable, competition will increase. Consumers in one country will hardly settle for having to pay significantly more than the cost of the same goods in another country. The introduction of the euro will thus have a number of positive effects. At the same time, these participating countries face significant economic policy challenges. In particular, EMU could be tested if there were significant deviations in the economic development of the monetary union. This may, for example: if individual countries are exposed to major unforeseen disturbances or shocks in the economy. With a single currency, participating countries lose the opportunity to use interest rates and exchange rates as instruments of national economic policy. This will impose increased demands on fiscal policy and the ability of the labour market to convert the workforce between enterprises, industries and regions. Different economic cycles in the participating countries can also create tensions between the independent central bank and the political authorities of each country. The central bank's objective is price stability in the euro area. It is only the future that can provide answers to how the new currency cooperation will bring about these challenges and pressures over time. The implementation of monetary union is likely to move towards greater harmonisation of taxes and duties and greater coordination of key economic policies. We are already seeing the contours of such closer coordination, among other things. in the establishment of the so-called Stability and Growth Pact of December 1996. We see this in the provisions of the Amsterdam Treaty on closer cooperation in employment policy, the establishment of the Euro-11 Group of Finance Ministers from the 11 participating countries and the strengthening of monitoring of the work on structural reforms in the Member States. In global and international economic cooperation, as in the G-7, the IMF and the World Bank, the euro countries will be able to appear as one player. The need for stronger coordination of economic policies was underlined by EU summits in Vienna last December. The summit highlighted the need for greater coordination in the Member States and in the Community, both in fiscal policy and in structural policy and wage formation issues. The meeting also underlined the importance of combating negative tax competition and thus also imbalances in the internal market. There is no objective for the EU to implement general tax harmonisation in the Member States. However, the pressure for greater coordination of corporate taxation, including, where appropriate, different forms of energy taxation, could increase in order to ensure the greatest possible level of equivalent conditions of competition for business in participating countries. The promotion of more balanced and sustainable economic development, in line with the principles of the Kyoto Conference, could also move towards a stronger pressure for greater coordination on energy pricing and charging and environmental measures. EMU and the introduction of the euro also mean more transnationality in EU cooperation. Monetary policy is now governed by the European Central Bank, which shall act independently of political authorities. At the same time, EMU is also an example of increased variation in the degree of participation of Member States in important parts of cooperation. As you know, 11 out of 15 countries are involved. For the candidate countries, participation in EMU will initially be a commitment. It is quite different that new Member States will not be in a position to participate in EMU until they meet the economic criteria. For some of today’s candidate countries, this is well ahead of time. In this way, the implementation of EMU will strengthen familiar features of EU cooperation: it will be marked by more transnationality; the impetus for further integration between Member States in key areas of economic policy will be strengthened; the EU will emerge with greater emphasis on the international arena. In the years ahead, however, we will also see greater flexibility within the EU as to how many countries are fully participating in the core areas of cooperation. Our own balances in the choice of stable and floating exchange rates are not significantly different after the establishment of EMU. These issues were discussed in the revised national budget in 1998. The Government took the view that the monetary policy guidelines on stability in the value of the krona against European currencies will continue even after EMU is established. There was a broad dissension in the UK about this in the treatment of the revised national budget last year. The size has decided to initiate a strategic dialogue with the EU in order to strengthen our anchoring in the EEA Agreement and our participation in the various EU cooperation projects. It also states that the possibility of linking the Norwegian krona to the euro can be examined in such a dialogue. Various forms of cooperation in the field of currency will be one of several issues addressed by the Prime Minister during his talks with President Jacques Santer and Chancellor Gerhard Schröder of the European Commission this week. The Norwegian side’s starting point for such surveys, in the Government’s view, must be the continuation of today’s monetary policy regime in Norway. Support contracts only make economic sense within the framework of fixed-price regimes. The Norwegian fixed rate regime was repealed in 1992. The design of the current Norwegian system based on a stable exchange rate must be seen in the light of Norwegian experience from 1992 and the problems in many other countries in maintaining fixed-rate regimes over time. Increased cross-border capital movements make fixed-rate regimes less stable than before. It has therefore been widely agreed that it has not been appropriate to return to the regime we had before 1992. Signals have so far not provided the basis for believing in exchange rate cooperation with the EU that could make a new fixed rate regime sufficiently stable and resilient. Nor has the EU considered in detail what kind of foreign exchange cooperation might be relevant in the future. EU attention has naturally been focused on its own preparations for the implementation of EMU. Stable monetary conditions in Europe are in Norway's interest. In our dialogue with the EU, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance will discuss how Norway and the EU can best contribute to this, including: through the definition of economic policy. The government will examine whether, and, where appropriate, under what conditions, Norway and the EU can cooperate to ensure stable monetary conditions. Procedures for regular consultations with EU monetary policy bodies are in place, both at political and high administrative level. The government emphasises continuing this close contact with the EU on monetary issues. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance will take this up during their journey. The government also attaches great importance to the political impact that EMU could have on its implementation, including for Norway as part of the internal market. It concerns important areas such as energy and the environment, employment, wage formation and other issues relevant to the social partners. Over time, it will be very important for Norway to develop ongoing dialogue, particularly at political level, on these issues with EU countries. The Government will therefore make use of the possibilities offered by the EEA Agreement and by the cooperation between EFTA and the EU for political discussions on such issues, in the EEA Council and in the Annual Ministerial Meetings of Finance. Article 46 of the EEA Agreement also opens up ongoing discussions on economic and monetary matters. Norway took the initiative in 1993 for annual ministerial meetings of finance between EFTA and EU countries. The objective was to increase cooperation on employment policy. Unemployment had already been a major economic and social problem in the EU for a long time, but it had also been increasing in Norway. While unemployment in Norway has halved since 1993, to less than 3 p.m., unemployment in the EU is on average over 10 p.m. As a result of the Amsterdam Treaty, EU countries have strengthened their cooperation on employment policy. Among other things, each Member State reports annually on the national employment situation and on measures to strengthen it. The reports form the basis for discussions within the Council and recommendations on actions to be followed by each Member State. From the Norwegian side, we have a good input into this work through Nordic cooperation. The government will also take the initiative to systematically report on Norwegian employment policy and strategy in Norway during the annual finance ministers’ meetings between EFTA and EU countries, in the same way as EU countries. Norway has a lot to contribute in this area, in particular because of the close cooperation between the authorities and the social partners. The Government wants to strengthen the role of the EEA Council as a political governing body and to stimulate cooperation with the EU in these areas. Overall, EEA cooperation gives us a broad platform. Through the EEA Council, the EEA Committee, the consultative committee of social partners and parliamentary cooperation, we have the possibility of systematic cooperation with the EU in key areas such as economics, employment and other issues of relevance to the social partners, energy and the environment, well-being and distribution. Since 1980, Norway has had contacts and dialogue at different levels with EU foreign and security policy cooperation. Our current system also provides the basis for consultations in the capitals of third countries and international organisations. Experience shows that it is largely up to us to contribute in such a way that this cooperation becomes meaningful for all parties. Norway and the other EFTA/EEA countries are regularly invited to join the EU declarations, common positions and interventions. That's how we get greater impact. To the extent that we from Norway have different views than the EU countries, or want a national mark, we choose to stand alone. In a forum like the UN, we play on different channels – the Nordic where possible, with the EU where it is most appropriate, or with other groups of countries where it is natural. This gives us flexibility and freedom of action on a case-by-case basis. At the same time, it is clear that, to the extent that EU countries have a common position in different international organisations, the EU exerts considerable influence. This can be seen, among other things. in the OSCE. As the OSCE President, we are in close contact with the EU Presidency and the tone-setting EU country. Outside the EU, Norway has freedom of action in the field of foreign policy. This is what we're using. EU countries often spend a long time coordinating a common position. In such situations, we can have greater leeway than EU countries to act quickly and act as a driver. In a number of cases, this has been an interest in other countries, including EU countries. In the UN work, this has helped to ensure that Nordic cooperation remains strong, although the traditional Nordic profile is not as visible as before. Cooperation with Nordic countries in the field of foreign and security policy has not diminished since Sweden and Finland joined the EU. For Norway, Nordic cooperation is an important platform for EU work. All Nordic governments attach great importance to the continuation of Nordic cooperation, not least within international organisations. The government will systematise and strengthen Norway's bilateral contacts with EU countries and with the Nordic EU countries. We expect the Nordic countries to be part of the EU leadership troika from the current six-month period, first represented by Finland. This gives us opportunities to promote Nordic interests and priorities in the field of foreign policy. The relationship with Russia is one of the main challenges of Norwegian foreign policy. With regard to North-West Russia, the Government has given special priority to nuclear waste disposal and environmental prevention work. This region has exceptional problems in many areas of society, as I mentioned in the neighbourhood statement last May. These tasks are so large and complex that broad international efforts are needed to solve them. Through the Presidency of the Barents Council, in which the European Commission participates, the Government has taken several initiatives to assist the region. We have also worked systematically to achieve more comprehensive international efforts to remedy the difficult situation, particularly in North-West Russia. The EU is also currently a key player in the process of involving Russia in wider international cooperation. This is a joyous development. Norway’s and the EU’s policies increasingly overlap and are increasingly linked. We have essentially the same objectives and interests. Over the last few years, the EU has developed a strategy for its cooperation with Russia in particular, but also with the Baltic countries. Finland’s and Sweden’s membership of the EU has contributed to increasing the EU’s overall attention and commitment to the challenges of northern Europe. We have supported the Finnish initiative to develop a northern dimension in the EU, as a tool in particular to integrate Russia into this cooperation. We will continue to work with Russia, the EU and other interested actors in the region, in line with the decision at the EU Summit in Vienna last December. The EU's economic instruments include, inter alia: The TACIS and PHARE programmes. These are support programmes for the former Soviet republics and the candidate countries. We consider it appropriate to link Norwegian project funds with EU funding in projects of common interest. We in Norway are pleased with the opportunities that are now opening up to co-financing TACIS projects with the EU. In particular, five areas are relevant for such cooperation: nuclear waste disposal, energy savings, health prevention, initiatives for cleaner industrial production and cross-border projects. Most major cooperation projects relate to nuclear safety. This is an area in which we have long wanted international involvement, both economically and technically. Outside the EEA Agreement, Norway is also participating in the so-called INTERREG programmes with EU countries. These are cross-border programmes where all Norwegian municipalities and municipalities have the opportunity to participate in different cooperation projects. There is still a considerable gap between ambitions and objectives in the EU Treaty base and the practical cooperation currently taking place between EU countries in the field of foreign and security policy. The political weight does not always correspond to the economic role of the EU. The experience gained from the Middle East peace process, the follow-up and implementation of the Dayton Agreement for Bosnia and the efforts to reach a ceasefire and a peaceful solution in the Kosovo province have strengthened the forces that want the EU not only to contribute financially but also to play a more prominent political role. Against this background, several EU countries have wanted to give the EU a role in defence and security policy. This is part of a broad effort to develop the European Security and Defence Identity (ESDI). Work is in parallel in the EU, the WEU and NATO. The objective is to strengthen Europe’s ability to carry out crisis management operations when NATO does not appear to be a natural instrument. The development of the ESDI is also a response to the United States’ desire for a more balanced burden-sharing between Europe and North America. There is broad consensus that the development of the ESDI will take place in a way that strengthens NATO and transatlantic relations. Minister Tony Blair took the initiative last year in a debate on enhanced European defence cooperation. The starting point was the desire for a more effective and credible EU foreign and security policy and the strengthening of the overall European defence capability. The initiative was subsequently followed up in close cooperation with France and resulted in a British-French declaration following the two countries' summit in St Malo at the beginning of December. The declaration defines a minimum of practical defence cooperation that the EU needs in order to play such a role. The two countries believe that the EU must have the capacity both to obtain information and to analyse concrete situations and to have the ability to make strategic planning, with a view to making independent decisions in European forums. The declaration outlines principles, while a number of difficult questions have been omitted. The relationship with allied non-EU members affected by Norway without providing clear instructions on how to deal with it. Both the United Kingdom and France place emphasis on avoiding unnecessary duplication of functions within different institutions. The EU must gradually be given more automatic access to the disposal of resources on a daily basis under allied command. If such a scenario were to be realised, this could mean that policy-strategic decisions would be more widely taken within the EU, while resources would be made available from NATO. The declaration represents a change in the British position on the role of the EU in this field. In the past, the United Kingdom has placed a decisive emphasis on the preservation of the WEU as an independent organisation. Prime Minister Blair has stressed that the United Kingdom has an open position on the implications for the WEU. However, we must assume that agreement on needs will be followed by debate on funds. This means a debate on the future relationship between the WEU and the WEU with the EU. Three options seem possible: firstly, the VEU can be integrated into the EU. The different elements of VEU cooperation may, on the other hand, be fragmented to include something under the EU and something under NATO. This solution avoids the problems that the full integration of the WEU into the EU could create for the EU's non-allied Member States. A third option is to further develop the VEU as an independent organisation. We have already seen some shifts in European security policy cooperation from the WEU to the EU. In line with the Maastricht Treaty, the EU last took some decisions which were subsequently forwarded to the WEU for further evaluation and implementation. In November, EU defence ministers met in Vienna for an informal meeting. This was the first time a Minister of Defence meeting took place in the European Union. The meeting may herald a new practice in EU cooperation. A reference to EU Minister of Defence meetings can also be found in the statement of St. Malo. A development that would lead to the closure of the WEU would create entirely new challenges for Norway in terms of our involvement in crisis management and European security more generally. Decommissioning the WEU could also result in stronger coordination between EU countries of issues discussed in NATO. I also believe that such a development will create a desire to establish a closer and direct relationship between the EU and NATO. The debate on these issues will take place in all relevant organisations, both in the EU, the WEU and NATO, and of course in bilateral contexts. The WEU has launched an analysis of these issues. Although we do not participate in the debate in the European Union on this matter, we will make our views valid both in the Western European Union and in NATO. The issue of the integration of Western European Union into the EU was discussed in detail in 1995. It was then agreed in the Western Union that such integration would make it natural to consider some form of association with the EU's foreign and security policy cooperation for the associated members of the WEU. Developments since 1995 have so far not updated this issue in the EU. However, if the EU becomes a greater framework for policy decisions on European security and crisis management, it would be natural for Norway and the EU to deepen the cooperation already existing within the framework of our political dialogue mechanism. Norway is a significant contributor to international crisis management. It is therefore essential for us to continue to be able to participate fully in the further development of the crisis management capacity of European nations. The continuation of full Norwegian participation in European security cooperation is important, including for our position in NATO cooperation. Norway has been an active participant in a number of crisis management operations. We still want to be a partner in this cooperation. For European crisis management capabilities, it is important that NATO remains the main player in operational military capabilities in the future. The Government therefore assumes that Norway’s rights as an ally and as a associated member of the VEU are maintained in any future solutions that change the relationship between the EU, the VEU and NATO. In practice, this will have to be done by involving Norway in EU discussions on defence and security policy issues. This can be done on the basis of today’s foreign policy dialogue mechanism with the EU. We have put great emphasis on this in the discussions we have had at the office during the last weeks in London, Paris and Bonn and with other allies. We will also do so in contexts where the British-French initiative will be discussed at political level, both in NATO and in the WEU. We are in close contact with the German EU Presidency on these issues, both through the Prime Minister's visit to Bonn tomorrow and when I and the Minister of Defence meet our German colleagues. It is the government's impression that the central ally fully recognizes Norwegian needs and that they want Norwegian recordings to be welcomed. They adopt an open approach to achieving solutions that also safeguard Norwegian interests. Security and stability are also about facilitating greater security for individuals against crime, violence and crime. Organised international crime is increasingly affecting the image of crime across Europe. All countries are affected by this development. International cooperation is necessary to combat cross-border crime. We participate in this work through judicial cooperation in the Nordic countries, in Baltic Sea cooperation and in the Council of Europe. In a few years’ time, the EU will be able to cover twenty European countries. As a result, but also as a result of the general increase in international crime, EU countries have in recent years sought to strengthen their cooperation in the field of justice. For today’s candidate country, the EU will require full participation in this cooperation from the first day of membership. The EU's future judicial cooperation will cover a wide range of issues, including: judicial cooperation in criminal matters, civil law coordination, police cooperation, cooperation in asylum and immigration policy, external border control and the fight against racism. The objective is to provide the basis for the development of the EU as an area of greater freedom, security and security for individuals. The aim is to ensure free movement of persons, while at the same time providing for enhanced external border control. As part of this work, as well-known EU countries in Amsterdam, agreed to integrate Schengen cooperation into the EU. For Norway, this has led to the current cooperation agreement with Schengen no longer being able to continue. On 18 December last year, I presented to the Stortinget on institutional solutions for continued Norwegian and Icelandic participation in Schengen cooperation when this is integrated into the EU, an agreement negotiated on the basis of the wishes of the majority of the population. I also mentioned the government's fundamental opposition to Schengen, among other things. due to privacy considerations, refugee and asylum policy, the need for border control and the integration of Schengen into the EU. Through the institutional agreement negotiated by the Government, the EU undertakes to keep Norway and Iceland informed of measures and legal acts in the field of justice under the design of the EU internal bodies. This concerns matters which are not part of Schengen cooperation. Such relevant measures include, inter alia: the action plan for justice recently adopted by the Justice Council. Combating and preventing crime are key issues, including the issue of strengthening Europol’s mandate. Immigration and asylum issues will be an important issue at the EU summit in Finland for the autumn. A review of the Dublin Convention, which lays down rules on the country responsible for examining an asylum application, will be on the agenda. The government will continue to monitor developments in the cooperation of EU countries in the field of justice. The six-monthly consultations with the EU Presidency provide regular information on relevant issues in this area, including those of Pillar III which are not covered by Schengen. Norway is also participating in an expert group at the European Conference on Drugs and Crime. The Schengen negotiations have shown that EU countries set limits on how far other countries can be involved in the further development of Schengen cooperation and relevant neighbouring cooperation areas. However, cooperation will be a channel that will provide us with information at an early stage and will allow us to communicate Norwegian views and views to the Member States. The foundation is now being laid for Europe’s development in the next century. Norway shall make its contribution. This is how we best safeguard our own security and our own interests. We want to use the cooperation frameworks that we have at our disposal and help to develop them. We will do so by building alliances and strengthening links with our European partners and allies. And we'll do that by continuously analysing the change processes that are going on, and the effects that they have on Norway. I have explained and discussed some of the most central developments in Europe, from the Government's point of view. These, of course, need to be seen in a broader international context. Developments in Europe and the EU are also affected by global developments. The 1994 referendum clarified Norway’s relationship with the EU. Norway has close cooperation with the EU and EU countries. The further development of the EU is therefore of great importance to Norway. In the light of this, the Government will present a Communication to the EEA on Norwegian European policy during 2000. It will provide the Storting with a good basis for discussing key developments and challenges that characterise European cooperation at the turn of the century. At the same time, the government will stimulate dialogue with central organisations, business and employment, the political environment, non-governmental organisations and others.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e391	The President will propose that the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement on Norwegian European policy be discussed at a later meeting — and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e403	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group, and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Finally, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e414	I am not going to talk about the EU, but about the EMU, the reform of continuing education and training, on which the Committee is presenting its position today. I hope that the setting that is now presented in connection with St.meld. No 42 for 1997-98, will provide a good basis for the social partners, for educational institutions, for study associations – for all those who are actively concerned with the need for continuing education. We are currently processing the setting of St.meld. No 42, and it has, in my view, been a great process that few antes were possible for a few years ago. The survey will today adopt the right of continuing education for all, which until now has been reserved for a few groups of society. It will no longer be just a right for those with a lot of education from before, but a general right for all, regardless of the form of association with the labour market. When the movement of workers launched the right to continuing education for some years ago, the movement was met with a sense of humor and, among other things, with a sense of urgency. with questions about whether to legislate for the right to go to a guitar course or a rose painting course. I thought that the period during which that kind of expression was launched was behind us until I heard the representative inge Wohnning a week ago say on TV2 that what you are now adding – as he pointed out – is that the plumber can become a doctor overnight. The right track is likely to continue, but those who are active in society understand the importance of continuing training. They also understand the importance of the Storting laying clear leadership both on rights and innovation and on the possibilities that need to be legislated in many ways. Today, in Norway, we use approx. 50 billion kroner on our education system, and the Buer Committee in its time concluded that Norwegian businesses probably spent between 15 and 20 billion kroner on continuing education or competence development, you can see the dimension of what we are going to put on today. For the Workers' Party, the right to education has always been linked to distribution. In an information and knowledge society, there is a serious threat of unfair distribution, non-participation, increasing unemployment and social problems in society as a whole if we do not take the necessary steps to meet the very knowledge society. In my opinion, we can in a few years' time, if we do not make the necessary steps and the necessary lifting for adults, among other things. There is a risk that we will not have qualified labour, that we will be able to increase unemployment because workers are not qualified for the jobs available, that we will have increased disparities in society where part of the population is on the brink of poor economic conditions and that there will be no possibility of participation in society. It is therefore very gratifying that there is a broad political consensus in the Stortingen on the need for the reform of continuing education. I have expressed on a few occasions that I do not see the reform we are now implementing, as a traditional education reform, but rather something in the direction of a larger labour market reform. I'm going to go into the individual areas that make that particular part visible, but I want to say already in the first post here that I think the big shot is initially very careful. But I'm glad that the government parties have shown their willingness to extend beyond what the government has originally laid down, something that I should mention in a few points – it's limited which points of the message I can mention here. Let me start by saying that the committee has unanimously agreed to legislate on the right to primary education for adults, including those who, for some reason, fell out when they went to primary school. It is an important principle, and it affects approx. 90,000 people, according to the report – a large part of them are immigrants. It is therefore gratifying that we have a unanimous vote right behind the principle, which I hope will also lead to other rights that we have not received in the treatment of the setting today, but which it would be possible to come back to later. Further training has been one of the main pillars of the continuing training reform for the Workers' Party and SV. We would have wanted, and we suggest, to consolidate secondary education in line with primary school rating. We haven't had a majority for that. For me, what the government has put up with, and to which they have joined, is just a continuation of today's secondary education. I don't understand the government when it says it will legislate the county councils' obligation to offer secondary education. I believe that it already exists today – quite rightly by regulation, but the regulation has to be based on a law house – and I am eagerly awaiting the views of the Council of State on that part. We believe that the 40 pst should be. of the economically inactive working population, it is necessary to establish the right to secondary education. Real competence is and has also been at the heart of the reform of continuing education and training for the Buer Committee. A majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the SV sidestep real skills, i.e. work experience, formal education, and are in favour of the individual educational institution itself being given a far greater responsibility than it currently has – it has also been emphasised by the Government in the notification. I had hoped that we could have reached unanimity in that area. It became a majority. I'm very pleased with that, and it's a huge challenge for those who are now going to put into practice exactly what real skills form the basis for. Individual leave rights have also been one of the main pillars of the reform of continuing education. There's now a clear majority who say yes to the law of the individual court, it's just the Right Party and the Advance Party that don't go for a law enforcement. But with the majority behind it, it should have formed a good basis, among other things. for the income statement in 1999, as I have seen that the parties have recommended the Stortingen to put it in place. Then the Workers' Party – and it may seem difficult for someone to understand, but I'm going to give an explanation that I hope people take inwards – has proposed that the entire reform of continuing education should be anchored elsewhere than in the department. The background to this is also the position of the majority of the Buer Committee, namely that this is a labour market reform; it is important that the parties are actively involved in the development of continuing education and training; it is important for the parties that they have ownership of the reform. It is not that the Workers' Party, with its proposal, will put the Department on the sideline, but it is important to get a broader grasp of adult education than we have had up to today. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions that the Workers' Party is behind in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e451	Rune E. Kristiansen has taken up the suggestions he himself mentions. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e456	There is broad consensus in the Committee's position on the intentions behind the reform of competences, and there is also broad agreement on most of the practical measures. Nor do I think there is the great disagreement between the rapporteur and me as regards the view of relevant professional groups such as plumbers and doctors. But journalists tend to choose their own angles on questions. However, there is a very real problem and it is the majority's very open, very wide and very strong proposals that real competences are to be regarded as equivalent to formal competences in all contexts. The problem with such statements is, in my opinion, that it gives people most of the time a completely wrong idea of reality. It suggests a reality for which it is not coverage in the real world. After all, it will still be the case that, in assessing real competence, it becomes formal competence at the next moment, because some have to accept that real competence is really equivalent to what is measured by traditional methods. So my fear is that the majority, through their wide-open formulation and the lack of attempts to clarify what the content of real competence is, is going to be harmed to lead the users behind the light. In that case, it may be that what is presented as a great commitment to competence is actually going to be like a director of the Ministry of Finance used to formulate it when he got a new government council that was going to renew the world and turn it upside down. Then he used to ask the critical control question: Tell me, sir. State Council, is there going to be a big blow in the air or a small blow in the air? The majority of the wording is in the category at least medium-sized, but I would like to have the case-rapporteur clarifying the content of the concept of real competence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e463	I don't have the starting point that the representative Inge Wohnung has, that users should have difficulty understanding what this is. In fact, I think it is Inge Wohnung who has difficulties with the concept of real competence. It is necessary to stress that virtually all the hearing bodies that have been linked to the notification have underlined the need for new systems of real-life competence – namely the University Council, the University Council, the Teachers' Team, the Teachers' Association, the LO, the NHO. Practically everyone has said that today's system is not good, and they have concluded and want the Storting to take the lead, so that real competence is equated with formal competence or formal education. The majority of those who have underlined the position are asking the Government to draw up systems of evidence of real competence as an equivalent basis to that of other education. I am convinced that the Government, in cooperation with many actors, will make constructive proposals that fully cover the intentions that we are adopting here in the Stortinget today, but we have underlined in our position that there are systems that need to be developed, because Norway is very far behind in terms of evidence of real competence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e472	First, I would like to commend the rapporteur for the job he has done with this setting. There has been a long and labor-intensive process in the Committee with x numbers of meetings, shadow meetings, etc. It's given as a result, as we've heard, a pretty good attitude. There are in particular three things I want to promise: statutory education leave, real competence and the statutory right to primary school for adults who don't have it. This is really a boost for lifelong learning. However, the Committee states that the expenditure incurred by municipalities under the legal right of adults is to be covered by the State budget, and this shows that the Committee will ensure that the necessary funds follow the reform. That hasn't always been the case before. The Storting Communication proposes that county municipalities be obliged to provide adults who wish to do so with secondary education within the current resource framework. This is followed up by us in the centre parties with proposals, but it does not get majority, as we have heard. I remember the Workers' Party's Bears Olsen in his time saying that this reform will be carried out at the expense of what it will cost, but it is not the Stortinget ready for today. My question to the President-in-Office will then be: Is it more important to highlight a principle for which there is no majority than to participate and to give some leadership and subsidiary voice to the county council's obligation to provide secondary education, as outlined by the Buer Committee? I ask further, can we see the Workers' Party that it is quite free now to come back to the Stortinget with new or other proposals in this area? We know that the department is working on the scope regulation and the issues that were outlined in the decision taken in June.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e481	The last first: the Labour Party will welcome all the constructive proposals that will come from the Government on improving the current system of higher education. But I have said that on the part of the Workers' Party, we have seen the right to higher education as one of the main pillars of continuing education. It is related to – and I think the representative Marit Tingelstad actually agrees with what I am saying now – that there is a alarming need for the right to higher education. That's 40 pst. of the economically active population without secondary education or equivalent. It is likely that 260,000 people, according to the Storing Communication, have expressed a desire for higher education in relation to their current situation. I don't see that the proposal that the centre parties are making today will mean any change to today's situation, and that's what we want to point out. It seems to me that the obligation imposed today on the county council is only to continue in the form of law, as I have pointed out in my previous post. I don't understand the difference, but I'm waiting for the Council of State: what's the difference, with that proposal the Government has now presented, with respect to today's system? Today's system is not good. There is something also pointed out by the Buer Committee, even though they were not in their position to legislate on the right to secondary education.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e488	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e491	Dear child has many names. It could be St.meld. No 42 the reform of competences, or reform of continuing education – the name is not mistaken, but it is important that people understand what we are talking about. It is therefore with some wonder that I read about the government's attempts at conceptual clarifications in the setting: ‘After these, ‘basic training’ is used for all formal training and ‘post-training’ for all non-formal training. Previous concepts such as ‘primary’ and ‘further training’ are avoided.’ There has been a lot of water in the sea since it was promised that oil wealth, among other things. would be used to develop new technologies and new knowledge in business to replace the industry we lost in the 1970s. I am thinking in particular of the tea industry and all the jobs that disappeared when, under agreements with the rest of the world, Norway was not to produce, but to buy from disadvantaged nations. The agreements were probably not so crazy, but the development of the Norwegian business to replace them has not had the suggested effect. Nor is a form of technology bank and a general enhancement of competence that would really give Norway priority to other countries. Where shall it be of the workers of our time? Is it a deliberate policy that everyone should become either academics or clients in the long term? It was therefore both with excitement and anticipation that the Progress Party took part in the Committee's work on this reform. Work has been particularly concentrated in view of the relatively high proportion of young people and adults who cannot be said to have the necessary literacy skills despite completed schooling. These unfortunate people have lost most in a society that is more knowledge-based and technologically structured. What about them? Will the reform catch up with them? We have always been painfully aware that the economic side has not been adequately assessed, either in terms of short and long-term business costs, in terms of stability around the individual employee, or in terms of the common funds available to us here. In short, it is not possible to calculate anything at this point in time. Nor can these economic challenges be said to be predictable in any way. In this respect, we will refer to replies to letters with requests for scope and concrete cost calculations, where, among other things, the Council of State. the answer is that approx. 90000 adults do not have sufficient primary education to meet today’s requirements, and nearly 300000 adults do not have secondary school, which is considered by some to be a ‘must’ in today’s society. Think about all of these being phased into public elementary school, not talking about high school at the same time! Then our school system would break down completely, because of, for example, lack of buildings, too few teachers, not to talk about bad school books and other material. Who, then, will be the big losers? Well, just children and young people who are in a natural educational environment, and not forgetting the adults who do not already have all the world's ballast, who are further stamped as losers in a system that is not designed to make winners. The municipalities of the country and, in part, the county councils already have major budgetary problems, and in many places the number of teachers is reduced, both with and without the necessary skills. This reduction may be seen in a positive light because the teaching shortage in other municipalities is precarious and a significant number of teaching positions are occupied by so-called unqualified personnel. But will e.g. free female teachers really move with man and children to another municipality to work in a new primary school? Or are well - qualified teachers more likely to find work in the home municipality outside school? The Progress Party will strongly warn against a waiting and looking attitude in terms of something as important as children and young people's future ability to receive education. We must point out that the reform can develop rapidly into further impoverishment of public schools. One scenario could be that school buildings remain environmental bombs, and that students' working conditions, which seem to occupy many politicians, deteriorate slowly but surely. The merging of classes and the closure of cross-border schools is the reality of today more and more places, and the safe, good school environment is slowly crumbling away. The Progress Party cannot accept the disappearance of the 'acquis communautaire', which is so important for a majority, with the guarantee of education for children and young people without the requirements of their parents' economy, without clear alternatives. Teacher shortages are already a major problem on a national basis. Teacher schools have been given a new evaluation point, namely to assess the suitability of the individual student. It is likely that some will be disqualified from further education because of this principle. In addition, we know that it is difficult to recruit highly qualified students for the study, and who wants to spend years of their lives in order to be a primary school teacher with low pay and low career prospects? Post-training leave arrangements may be a decoy, but who should be seconded? The problem of finding temporary workers is evident without the reform, and it will hardly do better. Many adults should not get into this fragile system before it collapses in total, and who should in case be in line to be instructed by law? Will it be the oldest, or is it possible for the 16-19-year-olds to wait? I imagine a waiting list guarantee based on a health care model, with no real content – for who can say something with a hand on the heart about priorities and time aspect for those who are in case of queues for education? Ladies and gentlemen, dear President! If this is a reality, it goes beyond the perception of Norwegian education as serious. The Progress Party takes children and young people seriously, and we have a problem when invited to adopt a very comprehensive reform without a price tag. At least the leading party in relation to the reform should have a vague idea of the costs. Our primary proposal is to return the reform, but we do not expect a majority for this very sensible proposal, unfortunately. That is why we have chosen to assess the individual issues in order to be able, if possible, to act as damage prevention to some extent. What has been raised above any doubt is the right of all people to primary and secondary education. The acceptance of real competence is also an important element for the Progress Party. Real skills are knowledge put into the system — both knowledge received at school and not least knowledge received from experience of life and learning over time, in other words the sum of education and experience. Real competence will, in the view of the Progress Party, not necessarily mean admission to either the medical faculty or other higher education institutions alone. It is the schools themselves that must ensure the competence of students in relation to the desired study or course. In order to get the reform on the rails, the education sector needs to have a flexible framework, as we also pointed out and proposed in the budget debate. The Progress Party proposes that flexibility in working life should be improved, both in general and in particular in view of the needs of universities and universities today and in the future. The party of progress is pleased that the Right has finally been able to agree to this. In addition, the policies of the Loan Fund need to be amended and adapted to the needs of adults, and a careful assessment of the fiscal situation both for individuals and for employers needs to be made. The Progress Party therefore concludes that it is regrettable that it is not possible to find a more constructive and visionary solution. This regrettable fact relates to the reformistness of former governments and the lack of ability or willingness to understand that by introducing, for example: 200,000-300000 new pupils in public primary and secondary schools are required to present a significantly larger number of teachers than the current market and to refinance primary and secondary schools. I would like to take up with this the proposals that the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e525	Ursula Evje has drawn up the proposals she referred to. Otherwise, the President will pay attention to the fact that the speech should be addressed to the President. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e532	I want to start by giving tribute and praise to the Progress Party for their positive contributions to the work of the Committee on the Reform of Competence, and especially on one point, that the Progress Party would be involved in establishing a system to demonstrate real competence, which is a very important point in the further work. So there's a couple of things I want to hang myself up a little bit, that's a little bit more. The point of view of the Progress Party on the statutory right to education leave. The party of progress says in the setting that it will be based on a voluntary agreement between the social partners. Yes, it can sound very good and nice, but then we know that it is one of the parties that will decide. One may never experience a voluntary participation in that area. In practice, it will be the employer page that will determine. The Labour Party and the SV, which propose a statutory right, state that it must of course be combined with a right for employers to set limits in view of the type of education and the production of the enterprise. The last point relates to the scope code — the right to further training is being developed. Today, the county council has a duty to provide mature provision of continuing training within the framework of 375 p.m. Then we see that the county councils, for economic reasons, are unable to maintain the 375 pst of the regulation, and that the adults are becoming the losers in the big system. What is the Medicine of the Progress Party to modify today's laws so that the adults can get into further training?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e541	I am pleased that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party could stand together on this important concept of real competence, because it is quite clear that very many workers have a competence that far exceeds what they can document, which we are constantly seeing when applying for jobs in the open business. It's not always that high school alone is what secures personnel the job they want, but just the sum of what they can do without being able to prove it, along with high school. That's exactly where we agree. With regard to the statutory right to education leave, it goes without saying that the Progress Party cannot believe anything other than that this should be a relationship between the employer and the employee, based on voluntary activity. One of the reasons for this is that any employer who does not keep his employees at a high level in today's society will in a relatively short time lose both production shares and reputation in relation to other similar enterprises. If an employer does not understand this on his own initiative, this company will probably disappear if it does not receive artificial injection of funds from e.g. State. Such subsidisation of jobs does not appear to be a particular feature of the Progress Party. As for the scope regulation, very short, the Progress Party of the general opinion is that 300 pst. shall cover the statutory offer to young people and the remaining 75 pst. can hardly be said to be good enough to cover all the adults.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e550	In extending what was just said by this speaker, I note that the majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party, believes that the public should provide special incentives to small and medium-sized enterprises. As an alternate who has his usual business in just one of these small and medium-sized enterprises, it occupies me quite a lot. It proposes that a greater share of SND-managed grant and support schemes be targeted at enhancing the skills of small and medium-sized enterprises. And just a drag in this area, I think I can be essential to these. However, the medicine of the Progress Party is a change to the Working Environment Act. The fact that changes to the Working Environment Act in this respect are the only appropriate medicine must be due to a clear misdiagnosis. The majority of the Committee’s view that the SND funds can be clearly effective and will be an important incentive in the companies in this area is essential. Discussion of the Working Environment Act on a broader basis should be a matter which will be worthy of consideration in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e555	Now we're back to what I tried to explain in my previous answer: incentives to a business that needs to learn to stand on its own, whether it's the small and medium-sized enterprises or the really big ones. If we're going to stimulate companies to survive at all times, the Progress Party believes we're in a dangerous water. In the case of SND, it should be reasonably clear that SND itself is not what we in the Progress Party prioritise. We do not want this kind of subsidisation. The ability of SND funds to be used for the enhancement of competences is considered to be negligible – in fact, it sounds quite tantalizing. But should artificial stimulation be what makes a living business work optimally? We don't think so. We believe that a wide range of measures in this context, along with restrictions and changes in the Working Environment Act, will do so much for business. In addition, we are of the opinion that our commitment in this matter must be to limit the public expenditure in order to achieve this, materially because we clearly do not want this to be at the expense of neither health, care nor children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e562	It is relatively rare in this Chamber to have a majority coalition consisting of the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party. You have that in this case. The joint comment is on page 17 of the vote, and it was also affected by the representative Evje in her posts. However, there was a confusion in the post that I feel the need to clarify. It was said that, of course, the proposal that real skills should be replaced by formal educational backgrounds, as stated in the second indent of page 17, does not mean that educational institutions should not have the full and complete right to ensure their education and training. I must honestly admit that I have some problems getting involved. Because if it is really meant as it says, ‘a system that gives adults the right to be admitted to education based on real competence rather than formal educational background’, it is very difficult to understand how the educational institutions themselves are to deal with the conditions of admission to education — well to note if it is really meant to be an individual right that should be guaranteed to all. There is also some ambiguity in the relationship between the first two indents. The first indent states: ‘establish a system that gives adults the right to demonstrate their competence in relation to approved curricula at school and in higher education’. I consider that to be completely trouble-free, and that right is already very far on the way, but it can certainly be done better. On the other hand, I have problems in understanding how it goes together with the next point, the unrestricted right to be taken up based on real competence instead of formal educational background. I would like to know how the representative Evje makes this happen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e572	Going into a vocabulary with the representative Wage is not something I look forward to with extremely great joy. But when he invites me to, I don't get to be the one who refuses to dance. When it comes to how to choose – and that’s actually what he said, just real competence – on the basis of only real competence, he’ll take a lot of time if we, for example. talking about studies at different faculties within the university system we have. But I'll give you a little example: if you like. has been a qualified lawyer for 15-20 years, this real competence should count significantly upon admission to the legal faculty. To me, this is reasonably clear. If you've been doing renovation work, which has a lot to do with general public health, the point of similarity to medicine is not exactly the same. In fact, here I think wages and I agree.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e579	The cord shift is therefore complete.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e582	The modern knowledge society is making new demands on our ability to acquire knowledge and skills. Labour and social life surveys require a continuous update. The concept of lifelong learning is becoming increasingly central in the formulation of education policy. In such a perspective, facilitating the empowerment of adults becomes an important task, and the Storting is currently addressing a reform that will make it easier for adults to update and formalise their knowledge. There is broad agreement on the need for a reform of competences. We know that knowledge and mastering work increases the quality of life. The possibility of professional updating and renewal makes us more competent in modern working life. At the same time, the main competitive advantage of Norwegian industry will be a high level of competence in the workforce and a high quality of the implementation of the work. Increased competence increases the understanding of new technical and organisational solutions in the workplace. The competitiveness of industry is an important prerequisite for the financing of our welfare society. The Christian People's Party believes that the Storting facilitates good adult competence reform through today's decision. In the media, the social partners believe that such a reform of competences is important in order to achieve a moderate wage settlement. It remains to be seen whether all the parties believe this in practice, but the Christian People's Party believes a moderate wage settlement is important for the development of the Norwegian economy and the ability to maintain a cost level in line with our main competitive partners. The public sector is now making an important contribution by facilitating the public education system for continuing education, ensuring the possibility of leave, providing them with a new chance of being educated and facilitating the financing of living through the State Loan Fund for Education. There are still some concrete clarifications, but I can assure you that the Christian People's Party will contribute to a high pace of further work on the reform. It is now up to the social partners to demonstrate that empowerment is also a priority objective for them. The concrete measures are important. Adults who, for various reasons, have not completed their primary education shall receive an individual right to such education. It must also apply to adults who have attended primary school but who have particular reasons to ask for such training, for example: adults with severe reading and writing difficulties or adult immigrants who need primary school training. It will not be the large groups that have such needs, but for those involved, it is important to have a basis in order to be able to take part in higher education. The Christian People's Party believes that we need to legislate the individual right of adults to primary education, and assume that the state covers the extra costs of the municipalities in realising this right. In the debate, several have highlighted the importance of legislating the right to education leave. The Christian People's Party agrees with this, but will come back to the concrete design of the permit scheme in the law work. At the same time, we know that more of the training will take place in the workplace and in combination with work and education. Professional training will take place in a combination of theory and practice, and today's organisation through the so-called Section 20 scheme is important in order to increase vocational training in the workplace. But also in higher education, the combination of work and education will become increasingly important. Facilitate part-time studies and combination solutions through, for example: modular studies will be as important as the statutory educational leave. At the same time, there will be some groups that will be able to start raising their skills by using the leave schemes, I believe the teacher groups can be examples of such groups. Training leave is also important for those who, for various reasons, find themselves in need of retraining or want a longer break in order to gain new knowledge and inspiration for further work in the workplace. The setting also shows the reader that there is a broad consensus on the establishment of a real-world documentation system. It is important that this system has legitimacy both in the workplace and in the education system. The development of such a system must take place in close cooperation with the labour market. The Christian People's Party believes that today's schemes are not sufficient, and new documentation schemes need to be developed which, in principle, value real competences as an equivalent basis for inclusion and inclusion in the education system. Moreover, those who wish to have their real competence tested shall not have to walk the path of the usual test arrangements established for those who have chosen the normal path of formal competence. The assessment of real competence in relation to recognised curricula should be carried out at an approved training institution, but in the light of guidance from the Ministry. Such guidelines shall ensure that institutions are as equal as possible. We believe such a decentralised model will provide the least bureaucratic arrangements, while at the same time placing the responsibility for the professional assessment at local level. In high school in particular, there may be a need to qualify the individual school to make such assessments, and I expect the ministry to follow this up. A central part of this reform is linked to the opportunities for adults to take secondary education. Today the county councils are responsible for this offer. In the implementation of Reform 94, the county councils were provided with sufficient resources in the framework transfers to finance higher education both for young people covered by the right to secondary education and for adults. The transfer was intended to provide a minimum of 375 pst. of an average annual coal of 19-20 years old. Despite this, we've seen a decrease in the range from 377 pst. in 1994 until at the base of 350 pst. in 1998, and this trend appears to continue. Securing resources for adult secondary education has been an important issue for the Christian People's Party in this work. This is why, like the Buer Committee, we want a statutory obligation for county municipalities to provide organised secondary education for all adults who do not already have such training and that this reinforced obligation is financed within the economic framework of the framework transfer to higher education, i.e. 375 p.m. By referring to the transfer made in connection with Reform 94, we want to retain the resources of the county council to the school sector. This is a reinforced obligation for county councils to spend the money on higher education. In our assessment, this range of resources will be sufficient to provide advanced training to adults who wish to do so. A legal right for adults, as proposed by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, does not indicate how these parties will finance this reform. A right fixation will increase the uncertainty of the economic consequences of the reform, and the Christian People’s Party is not prepared to say ‘cost what it will’. The more disappointing it is that it does not seem today to be possible to obtain a majority in order to secure the resources for higher education, even by means of subsidiary voting. However, if this is the result, the Government is free to present the proposals necessary for the realisation of adult secondary education. Competence reform is not over with today's decision in Stortinget. We need to focus on those who are out of work, so that they also have the opportunity to qualify for an active professional life. Individual schools, colleges and universities are ahead of an important effort to provide training. There are also rooms for voluntary and private providers such as private colleges and schools, public higher education schools and student associations. We need training that provides the concept of competence with a wide range and content with a focus on personal development, as well as professional immersion. I am sure that many difficult choices still have to be made, and we need more experience. In higher education in particular, grey zones may also arise in the supply and treatment of students during initial and continuing education. I fear that at a later stage such grey zone problems may increase the pressure to impose tuition fees on all studies and target students in basic education. This is a problem we in the Christian People's Party will follow with special attention in the future. Finally, I would like to point out that today's decision is just the first step in the realization of an important reform. So it's right to say that the reform also happens as we go. It also requires flexibility and new grips in the future. The Ministry will have the primary responsibility for the implementation of the reform, and I am pleased that the responsibility is placed there and not outside a separate secretariat. It is therefore important that the Department and the Government are in dialogue with the user groups. This will be necessary to promote lifelong learning. I will then address the proposal to which the Christian People's Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e608	Arne Lyngstad has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e613	I am pleased that the representative Lyngstad explained this with the scope regulation and the phase-in of adults in this regulation. But the fact is, the 375 pst of the regulation. shall cover three years of training of an average annual coal and that the remaining 75 pst. to be used, e.g. to extended time aspect for particularly needy. There may be people who are ironing and have to go up again. There are many cases that come under these 75 psts. When we then know that there are between 250,000 and 300,000 adults who don't have what we can call an advanced education in this country, and these are going to come under what must be left of the 75 pst., I can't believe that the government has a satisfactory economic background to legislate the adults' right to get into the public system, regardless of whether the offer comes from private or public providers of the service. Because this has to be paid, no matter who it is that gives the service.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e621	It is true, as the representative Evje says, that what is left of three youth schools is to go to both re-election and specifically organised education for students of the right, and it is also to cover adults in that group. What is interesting is that when reform 94 was implemented in 1994, resource use in county municipalities at this level was also in the scope. While it is true that many adults are lacking in secondary education, as the Buer Committee also outlined, it is not realistic for all of these to join the market at the same time. Thus, it is natural to believe that there will be opportunities to shut these through in a proper way over some years – the Buer Committee suggested ten years. This makes me think that there are sufficient resources to obtain continuing education at a higher level, including for adults, within the scope outlined in the implementation of Reform 94. But it has to be a reinforced obligation for county councils to spend the money on higher education. The interesting thing is whether the Progress Party wants to use county funds for continuing training activities. I do not think that the Progress Party has answered that question so far in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e628	It is a very big and important reform we are dealing with today. What's been the most important thing on the Right's side of this case is that we can keep this to a realistic level, that we get to do a lot of things and not just promise and then float it all out into the sand. When the representative Lyngstad talks about further training and the extended obligation that is now to come for the county council, there are some things I don't understand. The Government and the Government Party say that Reform 94 has provided sufficient resources for municipalities to finance further training. Let's do it. But now the Government, the government party, Arne Lyngstad and others, will legislate a municipal obligation to offer even organized training – which is very sensible – within the framework of what we have here. That's what I'm not going to do. Then my question is, how are you going to be able to do this within these limits? In so far as it is an honest matter that the Labour Party, SV and the Progress Party have said that one should do this beyond these limits, if they are able to prioritize money for this – what they have not said, they get the answer to themselves – but how will Lyngstad do this? When Lyngstad finally says in his post and repeats in the reply to the previous line that he finds it sad that today there does not seem to be multiple numbers to secure the resources for further training, and says that this should be done by giving county councils an extended obligation, there are only two ways to do so: either by giving county councils more for these purposes, or by taking county councils from other areas, that is to say hospitals and roads. What is it that the representative Lyngstad and the Christian People's Party want the county councils to do?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e637	I agree with Mr Løvik that it is important to have realism in relation to this competence reform. I believe that realism is important to bring with it also when you think about how extensive the candidate population of adults for higher education will be in the future. In fact, it takes quite a lot of motivation to get adults to pursue secondary education. This will also require some organised training, taking into account the needs of the applicants. However, the most important thing will be to organise on-the-job training. It also states that in the case of tailoring schemes for upper secondary education to enterprises, etc., secondary school should actually be able to take part in that part in case of special arrangements. It is interesting that the right now discusses the use of resources in secondary school for the further education of adults, because there are some who do not give signals whether they are willing to use funds for further education for adults — not even in this setting — it is precisely the Right Party, and also the Advance Party. There is considerable uncertainty as to whether the Right will at all spend funds on continuing training for adults. It would be interesting if the Right Speech in retrospect could give clear signals if the Right is willing to contribute here. Some of the problem with the policy that has been pursued today is, of course, that the county council needs to use free resources for purposes other than education, and then the question to the Right in this debate is whether they want to fight for resources to the counties of secondary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e644	It was not easy to follow the logic of Arne Lyngstad in terms of the 375 pst. and the constitution of the Government and of the Christian People's Party in the setting. They want to add that it is an obligation for the county to have 375 pst. At the same time, he says that voting in favour of the proposal from the Workers' Party and the SV to grant an individual right to secondary education is problematic, because he does not know the costs of this. But then he says at the same time that there is enough of 375 pst. and an obligation of the county. If that's enough, it should be quite harmless for the Christian People's Party to vote for SV and the Workers' Party's proposal for an individual right. I would therefore like to have comments from Arne Lyngstad on what he is really adding to this. Is enough with 375 pst.? And if that's the case, it should be quite harmless to vote for an individual right to further education. So a little bit about real competence. There is a broad consensus on a documentation system," says Arne Lyngstad, and that is it. Christian People's Party shall vote, inter alia: for the system outlined by the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party. In other areas, the Christian People's Party agrees with the Right. The right has tried to be a little fun at the expense of this arrangement that I have outlined: now the plumber is going to be a doctor – and it is obviously going to happen overnight – according to Inge Wohnning. We've outlined a scheme where it's the individual institution that's going to assess real-world competence and decide if it's good enough. Is Arne Lyngstad in agreement with me that when the Right hassles over this arrangement, it must be because they have not understood what we have sketched?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e651	I agree with the representative, Mr Rikvam, that the rhetoric to which the representative, in terms of real-life competence, has given rise is probably a rhetoric which also increases the differences in relation to the comments on which the right is attached in the vote, and the differences in relation to this proposal. There is a certain difference in the language used in the proposal in relation to our remark, but also in our remark it says that a perceived real competence is equivalent to formal competence. I'm assuming the Right does not have any problems with that piece. Then it's said that it's hard to understand the logic of rights fixing within the framework of 375 pst. It is clear that the rights attaching to individual rights are also a legal right. We do not believe that such a legal right will automatically trigger the need and the offer that they are asking for. On the other hand, we believe that a municipal obligation underlines more strongly the responsibilities of the county council in this area. But as far as I know, says the Workers' Party, it is well, in a note that they doubt whether a frame of 375 pst. is sufficient to achieve a reform of adult training. We therefore believe that there should be opportunities to fund an offer for adults at a start-up stage, but we may need to spend some years on implementation to reach those groups that want higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e658	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e661	There are some comments that clearly place indelible traces on individual representatives in this room. I have to repeat that the background was a TV journalist who had received it when the committee had handed over its position, that what is contained in the rather wide-ranging formulation of real-life competence means that any person with a professional background from some area can take it over in another area, and to illustrate it, he used the example with the plumber and the doctor. All I did in that context was try to dampen the expectations a little bit by suggesting that there are only parts of medical practice that can be said to have a relevant background of experience in the plumbing profession. It was of course a joke, but it is dangerous to joke in Norway! Let me therefore try to present the matter more in principle: according to my judgement, competence is competence. There is no difference between formal and real competence. It is completely uninteresting how a person has acquired competence; the interesting thing is whether or not he/she has competence. But at the same time, we must realize that modern society is a highly differentiated society, which imposes very different requirements on highly specialised forms of competence. At the same time, we live in a society where more and more people have to expect to change jobs, perhaps many times, during their working period, and this means that the requirements for documentation of competences necessarily increase in today's society. Within an enterprise, competence need not be formalised. In most enterprises, this probably works well, because you know very well what individual workers can do, and you can assess their skills on the basis of it. However, if competence is to be mobile — and it has to be in modern society — flexible forms of documentation and authorisation of competences are required. In the Right's view, we already have a reasonably flexible system, because we have the right to go up to the Privatist Examination initially at all levels of the educational community, including at university and higher education level, of course, with the exception of the type of education based on having attended compulsory courses and fulfilling the requirements to be admitted to such courses. With the exception of this, there is today an opportunity for anyone to take a test and to prove whether they have or do not have competence. However, the Right also agrees that this right is not being exploited as much as it could and should, and that is why we have also said that we agree that even more flexibility should be developed than that already present in today's Norwegian system. The so-called ‘reform of competences’ is an important education reform for the Norwegian community. But I think it's quite important, not least for the sake of those who are going to make use of this reform in the future, that you create the right ones, not the false expectations. I do not think the most important thing about the reform we are adopting today, for example. is the right to individual leave. Studies show that virtually all workers in today’s Norway applying for leave are granted leave. A statutory right to individual leave will probably not change much in the world of reality, but it can have an important symbol function – of course. The right has said that we are quite willing to assess this, but we would like to see the specific legislation in the form of a legislative proposal before we take a final position. Personally, I don't think it's the general statements of real competence that are the significance of this reform, because it's not going to change anything in particular, at least not overnight, on the world of reality. What is fundamental, on the other hand, is that there is an acceptance that both workplaces and formal educational institutions and course organisers of different kinds who have something to offer in this market share responsibility for creating a good learning environment. And the most important thing for the future of this country will, of course, be that the workplaces, businesses, act as a learning environment, and in this way provide the necessary incentive for all workers, whether younger, middle-aged or older, to have a real incentive to participate in learning. If there is any area where the market mechanism can be released to the advantage and can help solve problems, it is precisely this area. In this area, there should be room for all creative and good forces that can come up with offers that meet the real learning needs of users. We've had a joyful appearance in recent years of new providers both at high school level and at university level. There is reason to expect that in the years to come we will have increasing competition in this area, and I welcome everyone who wants to participate in that competition. Norwegian universities and colleges will enjoy competition from universities and colleges in other countries that want to offer something in the Norwegian continuing education market. It will provide a subsidy of diversity in our own education system, and it will be a useful incentive for our Norwegian institutions to step up and do a better job than they have done so far. An overall committee has been set up to give our universities and colleges significantly greater freedom than they currently have in providing tailor-made refresher training for those at work. I think that's a very necessary step and a very correct step. It must also be possible for our public education institutions to make payments that fully cover expenditure when there are buyers in the market who have special needs and who want to buy. To the representative Lyngstad, who answered Mr Løvik's question by asking a counter-question – it is a popular way to answer – I would say that Højre's view regarding the financing of the particular secondary level, where we have seen today that it has developed a not insignificant market at this level, is that in most cases the employer will be interested in paying if he has employees who want to acquire such partial competence by taking a course at the secondary school level. There is no reason to dwell on the question of public full-financing and rights-holding. It's certainly not a path that is life-making in the future society, simply because in that way one will take on such great commitments over the public budgets that it will not be possible to carry it forward. There is no reason that the public should pay for education for which most enterprises in this country will be more than willing to pay. It must be desirable that funding for the reform of competences be as diverse and as flexible as possible. When the Right does not see the basis for going in for an individual right-wing attachment to higher education, it is precisely because, in our opinion, it locks up the idea in a way that is really retrospective and not forward-looking. It will not in the future be a way that is life-making, to solve all problems of this kind over public budgets, nor is it desirable to do so. We have a long tradition of letter school education in Norway. Norway is, in fact, the country in Europe which was the earliest out of it and which has had the largest amount of such education in relation to the size of the population. It has been a real promise of competence for many generations in this society. With future technology in the field of distance learning, it is easy to see that opportunities in this area are infinitely much greater than before, and there is reason to welcome them. Finally, I refer to the right suggestion in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e687	Sir. The salary has drawn up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e692	The representative's salary stated that there is no difference between real and formal competence, except for the documentation issue, and he is quite right about that. And then he listed a lot of cases where documentation doesn't matter, and then he came up with where it really matters. It is precisely in the exceptional case of pay that it is important to obtain some form of authorisation and documentation of the total, total competence of a human being. I can illustrate fairly well how difficult this really is. Some time ago, there was a Norwegian student with very good grades — just 0.20 points from entering Norwegian medical school — who entered a recognised university abroad. She studied for a year and passed, but then her daily life situation changed dramatically so that she could not continue to study abroad and applied for admission to Norway. The answer, of course, was no, and it says something about the lack of flexibility in this system. If you think of my example instead of this skilled lawyer who had been employed for a long time, she wouldn't have any chance of getting into college and getting full legal skills, if we didn't get anything done with real competence. And it says a lot about this. I would be delighted to hear the representative's salary clarify a little more precisely this with a single course versus the exceptions he himself mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e703	In order to clarify what I said about the so-called real competence and so-called formal competence, apart from the documentation, I would like to add that life has taught me that there are people with an unlimited amount of paperwork that is useless to virtually everything, just as there are people who can hardly provide a paper that they have undergone more than the old seven-year-old folk school in this country, which can be used for the most part. But it's not due to any particular relationship, neither by any type of competence. Of course, it is simply because of the differences between people, their personal assumptions and their life stories. Because that's what makes people usable, or less usable. However, with regard to the question of the representative, it is important to clearly distinguish between the type of evidence of competence necessary to determine whether a person is able to follow a particular type of teaching offer in a meaningful manner and whether a person is qualified for a job with specific tasks. There are two completely different types of evidence. In the case of admission to studies, the problem will in most cases be whether or not there is a necessary tooling competence, for example: in the form of language skills. There is no point in addressing a person to a study offer that assumes that all scientific literature is in English, if he does not master English. Simple tool requirements must therefore be met if you are to be able to follow a teaching offer at all. I think what's going to be interesting in the future, except for the verbal differences that lie in the timing of the different fractions, is whether in the future you'll succeed in creating documentation systems that are more flexible and open than the documentation systems we've had so far.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e714	The representative of Wages and salaries explained in his statement how the Right would finance a reform of continuing education and training. The answer, as far as I can see, is that they want to pay the participants in full and refer to the employer as paying, that it is an employer who wants to finance this. I expect the representative's salary to have forgotten, of course, to say that those who are outside and are not in a working relationship must also be financed. If not, it is a reform that concerns only parts of the people, and not all. But I'm assuming there was a confession that fell out. What becomes a little problematic, however, when a payment system is to be constantly based, is to distinguish between what is continuing education and what must be seen as basic education. The question is whether one here is just going into the grey zone problem that I tried to warn against in my post, that one now opens too many grey zones, and then becomes unclear as to whether students who are in a basic education system, students who are in high school in the usual way, adults who are taking secondary education within a normal framework, should also start paying for their training. I think this problem is right-wing, and the most logical answer from the Right's argument should be to introduce unit price financing and tuition fees for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e722	I am grateful for all the help in the form of added supplements! But it should actually be completely redundant, because all this is in the setting, and it is completely unanimous. For those who have read the setting, there is no doubt whatsoever that the Right is with the other batches when it comes to establishing the principle of individual right at primary level. It was even the right who got the sentence that says that we assume that the state will finance this, and that the additional expenses that had to be included should not be charged to the individual municipality. It is also clear that the needs of those users who are not in employment and who do not therefore have an employer with co-responsibility must, of course, be met by the public budgets. That note is common to the Government Parties and the Right, as the representative of Lyngstad will recall. I don't belong to those who believe that the market mechanism solves all the problems in this world, but precisely in this area I think it can actually do quite good for itself. And developments in recent years have shown that where there is a real need for adapted education, and where there are some who are willing to pay this, who find the offerer and buy each other to the delight of both parties. What we've said on the Right side is that we think you can leave a substantial part of this to that mechanism. However, I would like to stress to the representative Lyngstad that we are, of course, prepared to find the necessary arrangements for those users who are not eligible to pay, for example. because they are not in a job and do not have the necessary income. It's a sunny task for society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e729	I noticed that the statement about the plumber and the doctor was a joke, but Inge Wohnning apparently thought the joke was so good that he had to repeat it several times on several occasions. In the final part of the article, Mr. Wynning addressed this with the funding of any right for adults to secondary education, and he was also concerned with it in the answer to Mr. Arne Lyngstad. I think I'll see the article on Inge Wage in the direction that the Right is willing to allow for a greater self-payment for higher education. The proposal of the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party states that we should provide an individual right for adults for secondary education and that primary and secondary education should be free of charge. It's a social responsibility to provide that kind of education. I would like to see Inge Wohnung comment a little bit more on this with whether he wants to open the door for the individual to pay for education at this level, because it can open some doors that are quite extensive. So to this with the documentation system for real competence. No pay mentions privateists. So we have the privatist system, and it works. But does Inge Wohnning agree with me that people who acquire knowledge in a certain way are then deprived of a particular testing system? People who go to school have an exam system. This is about people who have acquired knowledge and skills in other ways through a long professional life. Does Inge Wohnung feel that it is unreasonable to have the same testing system for these as for those who follow a regular school course?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e742	When I sometimes repeat something that has the character of jokes, it's always on the call, and it's obviously been here today. It already started with the case rapporteur and continued since. I do not consider the example to be particularly enlightening. On the other hand, I consider it necessary to clarify when it comes to imaginative misunderstandings, such as that this would be a general attempt to ridicule the reality itself behind the concept of ‘real competence’. It would be a total futility. However, sometimes one may feel a certain need to put a critical searchlight on the general rhetoric that tries to cover up the real problems of conceptual use. On the way, I believe that is what is contained in the indent of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party, which I quoted in a previous line change. To the representative's question. Yes, of course, it is Right's view that high school education offers can be privately funded. There are, as we know, quite a number of students in this country who are doing so today, and the number has been increasing in recent years. This shows that it is a truly functioning market, and there is no reason for the legislator to try to restrict it. There are quite a number of employers in this country who can afford to pay employees to obtain that kind of qualification, and there is no reason why we should refuse them to do so. So my answer is quite simple, as we have said: it must be the unconditional duty of the public to provide full coverage at primary level, not necessarily to pay full for any course offer at secondary level, and absolutely not at the university level.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e751	The cord shift is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e754	The Centre’s programme has underlined the need for lifelong learning, but points out that the framework conditions in working life and the education system have so far provided little support for systematic lifelong learning. The aim must be to increase the competence of the entire population and to reduce the knowledge gap. This is an important element of continued democratic development. I'm pleased to report St. No 42 for 1997-98 have responded to these challenges in line with the Buer Committee, where social partners were also strongly represented. It was interesting to hear LO's representative at a training conference at Lillehammer recently. He was pleased with the Committee's work on the notification, except on one point, namely that there is no majority voting on the commitment of adults to secondary education. He added that he hoped it could go the right way when the Storting will today debate the matter and make a decision. I hope so too, but it doesn't look quite bright. It's gross, not least because most adult women need advanced education, and I still hope that the Workers' Party and SV will vote in favour of the Centre's proposals, so that there are clear indications of adequate funding for the training sector in the counties. An important label bar is that all adults who want to do so are entitled to primary school education. This is a very important principle, as primary education is the foundation of empowerment. People with, among others Reading and writing difficulties have suffered a lot over time and have been hindered in further career building due to their disability. Now this can be fined. Studies also show that in particular immigrant women lack basic knowledge that is important for the functioning of society. It is not necessarily the school bench that directs the learning arena for those to obtain formal primary school education, but equally for the workplace. The public education institutions shall be the pillars of training arenas, but it requires close cooperation with, inter alia: working life. So far, the last thing has not been good enough, it's more like words on paper. This will also be a major challenge for universities and colleges. In addition, it is positive that they have started work on national superstructures for networking so that they can constitute a University of Norway. The secondary schools have already taken an important step with resource centres, but also these will have competition from other providers, as has already been mentioned in the debate. The centre party sees high school as a very important arena for an all-round development of competence with the network that is already built around, among other things. the vocational training and the Section 20 scheme. This needs to be further developed. Similarly, student associations, higher education institutions and distance learning institutions will be central to concreteising the principle of lifelong learning. The most important thing is to coordinate resources, so as to benefit from empowerment. This reform must primarily be a reform of working life and must be taken into account in the learning process. Information and communication technologies will, of course, be very central, while adult education needs to be developed and taken into account in the provision of teacher training. Recognising real competence is, in my opinion, the greatest step forward in this matter. The fact that people have to get money for the knowledge they've acquired from different teams and experiences is a milestone. The centre party believes it is important that as much as possible be given a real chance, for example. higher education. I believe that the draw to get in should be wide, but it should be hard to get out again, so that one ensures that the quality is the best. Another important feature of the reform is the right to education leave. Here, the social partners will naturally be central, as they have also done when they have been the precursors of the whole reform. The implementation of the reform depends on the resources made available to the public, the social partners and the individual themselves. The latter applies not least to the motivation of the individual and the employer. I would particularly like to highlight the needs of one-man enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises. They're vulnerable. This was also stated at the conference on crafts which I mentioned instead. What about e.g. The individual craftsman who is his own employer was the question. These too need skills development if we have an opinion that the entire population of the country should be raised and that competence should become an export article. The State must step in with the strengthening of the Loan Fund as a source of finance for living. I expect the Ministry to come up with good solutions that give justice to different groups, but this must be done at a later stage in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e780	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e783	It may be especially in education policy and in child and family policy that we see the political divisions between the parties in Norway. Here the true face of many parties emerges, and education policy is an important indicator of where a party stands in the policy of distribution. The Centre Party has traditionally been a close ally with the Workers' Party in educational policy issues. We are dealing today with something that, hopefully, will remain one of the most important reforms in this decade – a reform in which society has a special responsibility for those outside. And one of the most important promises we can make on the part of society is to give everyone a statutory right to secondary education. Unfortunately, there will not be a majority for such legislation here today – a majority we would have had if the Centre Party had agreed with the Workers' Party and SV. Instead, the Centre Party goes in to legislate the obligation of the county council – a change that the department itself determines is not fundamentally different from today’s system. Nor will this obligation be followed up by increased funds for the county. So here it's the Center Party that's in the brink of a reform that the county has to finance within today's framework. Nevertheless, the representative Tingelstad is able to turn the whole issue upside down when she asks the Workers' Party to support the Government's proposals. It is not that when governments and government parties do not receive support for a legislative amendment, that means that today's system will end. I wonder if the representative Tingelstad actually believes it, or if this is an attempt to hide the fact that the Central Party has gone on a new line in education policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e799	It is right, as the representative Synnøve Konglevoll says, that the Centre Party has co-existed with the Workers' Party – as the other centre parties have also done – in many cases and on the major reforms, except for the 6-year reform. But at Reform 94, we were a good guarantor to get it done. We have some dividing lines in some areas. I have been confronted with it before, and I stand for the fact that we can allow several private actors, for example. where there are alternative pedagogical arrangements. We've also had a program party. In the case of a right to secondary education, there is a legal case, among other things. As I said before, of course, it's also a cost side of this. The centre party found that it was not right at the moment to legislate an individual right in this area. But we take responsibility for lawmaking right for adults at municipal level. And we've said that the state should provide the contribution it costs, so that we don't get a repeat of reforms this house has adopted before, that haven't been properly cost-calculated, and that the municipalities and county councils haven't got enough money for. Our attitude is that we now have to wait for the situation and make sure that we make money, so that we can be sure that what we adopt is financed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e808	Knowledge and education are not equally distributed in this country. The Buer Committee has shown that the population has the lowest formal level of education, especially in the outermost municipalities, in the inland counties. An individual right to secondary education, as proposed by the Workers’ Party and the SV, will precisely focus on those areas of the country where the population initially has the lowest formal education. So I'm a little surprised that the Central Party will not participate in such a law, a law that will just target those parts of the country where the population, as I said, initially has the lowest education. So the Central Party says they want an obligation for the county to provide education within 375 pst. As others have said, this is the situation today. The situation today is such that, through regulations, the county has the obligation to have 375 pst. 75 pst. above what is required by the right-holders. So what's the new thing about this central party arrangement and the government parties? What does that really mean is that a lawmaker has an obligation instead of having a regulatory obligation, as we have today. Does this mean, as the Central Party sees it, that the county council is now being given a stronger mandate to have 375 pst., or what is actually in this obligation that they are now trying to make an important matter. In my opinion, this status quo is. This is the order of the day. This is not an extended right for people who are in demand of higher education. I would like Tingelstad to clarify what the new thing is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e817	The new one is to follow the Buer selection setting. It states that they recommend that the county should have an obligation to provide adult secondary education. But they also have that in part today – I am aware of that – within the 375 p.m. framework. For example: My own state has gone in and analyzed how these percentages are used, and it's actually that all 16-year-olds have got room, everyone in high school has got room, and they've got apprenticeships for the vast majority, but yet the percentage isn't up in what it's supposed to be. Then they start analyzing what 375 pst. implies. The 75 pst. can be distributed by e.g. 25 pst. on re-election, 25 pst. on organised training for disabled persons and 25 pst. in adults. It turns out that it is not the figures that are relevant, and then one has to go in and look more at the distribution of the 75 pst device. And by now saying that we want to oblige the ministry to do this, we believe that we can go into the core of the problem and thus give room for more adults in that way. In addition to this, we need to stimulate more adults to apply for the services that are available. But not only that, the county council also has to set up its arrangements and offers in a better way in line with the wishes of adults, because I realize that there are some adults who go to other providers, and then we have a problem, because then there can be a distinction between those who go into ordinary public school, and those who go into other schemes that might cost something.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e823	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e826	I noticed that the representative Tingelstad had some problems explaining the difference between a statutory obligation and a regulatory obligation, as today's system is. I initially want to remind you of the starting point for this matter. Here in Stortinget it started with a Document No. 8 proposals from SV, document No. 8:71 for 1994-95. In that document, one concluded with a proposal in three points. First, one opened up so that there should be an individual right to leave. Secondly, financial instruments should be established in which the parties and the State share responsibility. And thirdly, one concluded with a proposal for a Commission to identify the scope of continuing education and training and to facilitate a reform of continuing education. As you know, the Buer Committee did the investigation. Today, we are adopting an individual right, even though we do not now specify a certain extent or quantify it, as proposed in Document No. The 8th proposal. I guess we'll get back to it in connection with the law enforcement itself when the Storting will adopt the new law. We specify some financial instruments, without the overall responsibility being allocated to the different actors. With this provision, the Committee has made some important choices in several key areas. I would also like to say that in these areas the Committee is quite specific, so that those who are going to continue to work with the position - the Ministry, the various educational institutions and the social partners - should have things to deal with. With this setting, the majority emphasises that there are different ways of acquiring knowledge. Although it may seem pompous, I am also quite sure that this setting will give us a new and expanded concept of knowledge. Knowledge is not managed in specific locations. These places manage a set of subjects and curricula, they manage different methods and an academic tradition. However, knowledge is significantly more extensive than that managed by the various educational institutions, and it is important to take it into account in the further discussion. The outcome of this debate and the suspension need to change and extend the responsibilities of educational institutions. They shall no longer be solely responsible for specific age groups but shall now participate in a level of competence covering the whole population. Universities, colleges, secondary schools and primary schools need to develop educational provision to other groups, groups that want learning venues other than the usual ones. Educational institutions also need to assess people’s real competences – I stress in relation to the subjects and curricula they manage themselves. This must be done differently from through the established testing and examination system. It should be clear that there must be coherence between the education system itself and the testing system — the examination forms. Of course, people who have acquired knowledge other than through the established education system cannot be tested according to the same examination systems. Training institutions shall make a discretionary assessment of their competence. This requires an in-depth assessment of their own subjects and curricula, which would have to influence the content of these plans. What is primarily – I stress primarily – a reform of lifelong learning, will also be a content reform throughout our education system, from primary to higher education. I would venture to say that the setting in some key areas is groundbreaking. As others have said before, we now want to legislate an individual right to leave. All employees receive an individual right. It is not for the employer to decide whether an employee needs leave for continuing training. The Court shall also include training which is not directly linked to the working situation. This is a level of competence which shall cover all. Granting employers an exclusive right to decide permit applications would be to give employers excessive decision-making powers to random employers. We in SV have proposed that the right should be included in the Working Environment Act. In addition, what the majority say about real competences is an important part of the reform. We're going to have a system where I think the overall study competence is being downgraded. We are enough, with this new way of defining knowledge and competence, to move towards the demise of general study competence and more towards special study competence for the different educational pathways. This must include, inter alia: become a consequence of this reform. We get a system in which, based on real skills, on the basis of other education, on the basis of work experience, one can get curtailed in the studies. We are developing a system where work experience, other types of knowledge, other types of education, can become part of formal education. We set up a system in which everyone has the right to assess their real competence, and it's the educational institutions that are going to do this. We get an individual right to primary school. There are still many in this country who lack primary education. The psychological thing about giving everyone an individual right is important, and we're not going to let that down. The psychological fact that we get an individual right will be important to many people to make use of this offer. I'm sorry that it's not a majority to get an individual right to secondary education. Higher education is very central, because it certifies for professions, it educates for professional letters, and it gives general study competence. That is why, at the beginning of this comprehensive reform, we should have ensured – and I had seen it desirable for us to do – an individual right to higher education. In some areas, in my opinion, we are too poor. We're fairly unclear about the economy. Let's give some instructions. The country’s loan fund shall be an important source of funding for the maintenance of life; a system shall be developed within the Loan Fund to enable adults to make use of it. We say important things about investment funds from the SND – that government funds should be used to demand skills, that government funds should be used in industry, in small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they have the opportunity to demand education. It's an important thing. In addition, we say something about the parties also having to find out arrangements. I wish we had been a little clearer about public responsibility there. If we had been, I think we would have had more opportunities to do this. Finally, whether we succeed depends on more relationships. We rely on employers not to see this as a cost, but as a common promise to ensure competition and competitive advantage. We depend on the educational institutions developing their offerings, and they grab the ball that is now added, to develop good education. We depend on securing the economy in this, and that we are also able to motivate adults to take advantage of the offers that are now being developed. So I'm going to take up our one suggestion. The proposals on which we are with the Workers' Party have been addressed in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e858	Mr Reikvam put forward the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e863	I would not like to disappoint the representative of Rikvam by not taking a reply. There was a certain historical suspense of the representative's posts. He used, among other things, the expression ‘road breaking’. I believe in general that it is an advantage that the political decision-making system leaves to the posterity and users to find out what is groundbreaking, and does not do it in the form of self-evaluation. It is also a form of evaluation. I need to interpellerate the representative again when it comes to talking about alternative testing systems. It is clear that all testing systems, including those currently in use, both in the form of the regular examination institute at all levels of the school system and the special rules relating to the right to the private examination, have in due course been developed for one practical purpose, namely to determine as easily as possible whether a specific level of skills or level of knowledge is present or not. I assume that new and alternative tests must also have the same purpose, namely to be able to determine in as simple and as cost-effective a way as possible whether a particular set of skills and knowledge is present or not. What I can't imagine is that one should develop a system in which some body, whether at state level or at national level, should sit and accept a large set of individual applications of a large scale, where each applicant describes his or her entire life history from childhood, and then this body should sit and review them in detail and give individual opinions. Then the number of annual work to be accepted for testing will be extremely much larger than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e872	It is clear that afterwards, I will consider whether this reform was a ‘road-breaking’, which I used in my post. I'm not going to say that it's going to be a paradigm shift, but I still think it must be allowed to use that kind of formulation when you feel that what's sketched by the majority is obviously going to have quite a big impact on our education system, at least if this education system seizes the possibilities set here. I also think it's going to do that, because for some people there are also questions about survival. And when you get that question hanging over, you'll probably grab this, and you'll get to grips with the possibilities outlined and develop new training opportunities in new arenas. That's what I think may be one of the most important things. As I have mentioned earlier, it is clear that with regard to the evaluation systems that have been developed, there is a link between the education itself and the evaluation itself, and it is necessary to test whether certain skills have been achieved. We now have a new situation, where people have acquired knowledge in a different way. They have not spent three years in a particular education, but they may have spent 20 years — through work, through different courses, through participation in different settings. It should be quite clear that the testing system, the examination system, developed in schools, colleges and universities, cannot be used against these people, who have acquired knowledge in a completely different way and over a much longer period.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e879	It is important that as many actors as possible get on the road to help and facilitate the success of this reform. SV seems to have problems joining the majority position, ‘that resources for the development of skills for jobseekers through the labour marketset and the re-training system must be seen in the context of the overall resource availability of the continuing training reform’. In practice, this may mean limiting the positive role that the labour marketset and thereduction system could have played. We know that the labour market situation and the reintroduction system are already contributing positively in this area, and it would be unnecessary to impose restrictions. The reality of today's world is that the working life in interaction with the workforce, the employer, the labour market office and the location of the administration are able to offer offers that are more flexible than they would be by limiting them to either a purely labour market measure or a teaching offer. I would therefore ask SV if it is necessary to impose this restriction on the system. It would be more positive if one could organise on the basis that these resources were also included. Furthermore, later this year, Stortinget will look at a feedback message – let me call it planning and learning for self-mastery. It's with excitement that I'm looking forward to how this competence reform can also have an influence on that part of an important work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e893	After all, we have a very comprehensive comment on the role of the labour market parliament in this reform of competences. We are concerned that the labour market movement is thinking more strongly about empowerment and not so much about dissemination. Of course, it should have a clear dissemination role, but it needs to think even more about empowerment. We've been quite clear about this when we, for example, says that people who have started a rather long course of training in the direction of the labour market seat will be allowed to complete it even if there is a possibility of working for these persons. It is just to stress that raising the competence of these people and providing them with proper training are central to a permanent foothold in the world of work. As I said, we are very concerned that the Labour Market Act has and is going to play a central role in the level of competence that we are now talking about. A greater proportion of the resources available to the labour market seat may enter a longer-term planned education for those unemployed, who initially have the most formal educational background. I did not feel struck by the question that was raised, because I feel that we have been reasonably clear in stressing the responsibilities of the labour market parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e898	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e901	Today, when the Storting deals with the big picture of the reform of competences, we have come a few steps closer to a society where lifelong learning is a natural part of the lives of all people. The left has always put education and empowerment in a social and democratic framework. The aim of education has been and is to give individuals a good basis for participation in the community, as a businessman or as a participating citizen. In today's society, where knowledge and competence are more important than before, the key to a meaningful job and to a commitment to the societal debate, this perspective becomes even more important if possible than it has been in the past. There is no disagreement in this room that we live in a knowledge society and that this reform is important both for Norway to be able to assert itself in what is called a global knowledge economy and for individual citizens to have good opportunities to live a good life. Today, large enterprises are driving the development of skills among employees. This is to a lesser extent the case among small enterprises, and here there is a need for public organisation. There is consensus in the Committee that SND needs to give greater priority to raising skills in small businesses. This is a joyous follow-up to the Government's Action Plan for SMEs, where skill-enhancing in small enterprises is an important element. A statutory right to training leave is important in order to enable all workers, including those not covered by the agreements between the major employment organisations, to receive further training. However, it is equally important to encourage continuing training to facilitate flexible training, so that the workplace or home can be a good training venue. Norway has many advantages in enabling the education system to provide flexible education for adults. We have a decentralised structure of both higher education and higher education, and we have a long tradition of adult education and distance learning, both under the direction of public and private institutions. Some of the private educational institutions involved in adult education are at the top of the world with regard to the exploitation of new technologies. Both universities and higher education institutions are already well in the process of meeting a new educational market through new forms of cooperation and the development of online education. The left is pleased that all the parties now agree that it is right to show confidence in the existing institutions. The Committee wishes to enable public institutions to participate in a continuing training market and the idea of a new so-called open university under the auspices of other actors has been abandoned. Increased freedom and flexibility for individual institutions are a prerequisite for their having an important role in the knowledge society, where international competition for students and researchers becomes more effective. For the Left, it is obvious that universities and colleges have to play an important role in training adults as well. This is important both to make the best use of the nation's overall resources and to give the reform of competences a wider perspective than purely commercial, but also to strengthen universities and colleges as the central educational arenas. At the same time, I would like to stress that there needs to be a better interaction between public actors and the private and stand-alone institutions that already have good skills in flexible education through technological tools, educational organisation for adults, and interaction with business and their needs. Lifelong learning can only be meaningful if we have a good basic education and good professionals to carry out the reform. The left will therefore underline the role of teachers both in implementing this reform and in ensuring that the Norwegian school is as good as we all want. It is therefore particularly important to invest in continuing training for teachers. It is important to stress that the job has not been done with the decisions of the Stortinget today. This reform is a process in which several actors must work towards the same goal — to increase the competence of the Norwegian population. It is therefore gratifying that both labour organisations, public and private educational institutions and many enterprises seem to want to participate in this national effort. It's about meeting the future with knowledge. Lifelong learning for all, better exploitation and distribution of education provision, better adaptation of people’s skills to society’s needs for skills and increased commitment to new technologies in education are more important than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e929	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e932	An overall committee highlights the importance of both study organisations, distance learning and a number of other actors linked to continuing training. Since Reform 94 was introduced, there has been an increasing number of participants linked to Section 20 of the Vocational Training Act. The Section 20 has been repeatedly debated here in this Chamber, and there is unanimous agreement to continue this arrangement. But there has been a growing problem with Section 20, and it is the bottleneck attached to the exam. State Council Lilletun has expressed that this is a growing problem in relation to exams. The Workers' Party and SV promote in the nomination a proposal in which we ask the Government to consider granting the right to an examination during a transitional period for course organisers participating in the continuing training reform. I allow myself to ask the representative, Mr Fladmark, what is the basis for going against this proposal. What argument will she make here? In the vote, as far as I have been able to register, there is no argument; on the other hand, there is no way to support the proposal. It might have been interesting if the representative, Fladmark, could give a deepening of the problem associated with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e942	As usual, I'm going to make my answer short. I have the habit of answering cards in line exchanges. I would like to make it clear that of course we think that the Section 20 scheme is a very good one, which is to be continued. It is said in the message, which is behind both the councils and the central parties. With regard to this with the examination scheme and how it will work further, we think it is right to take that assessment in the context of the evaluation of reform 94.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e951	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e954	In a letter to the social partners dated 14 April 1998, Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik repeated some clarifications that he gave at a meeting a few weeks earlier. On the financing of subsistence, Prime Minister Bondevik writes among others: that the public contribution should be based on the financing arrangements of the State Educational Loan Fund, which must, however, be better adapted to the needs of adults. There St.meld. No 42 for 1997-98 was presented on 28 May 1998, the Government had not come any further than that; once again it points to the need for a review of the legislation in the Loan Box to stimulate adults to develop their skills. So, while the committee had the big message for treatment, the government put down in August a sample led by Inger Johanne Pettersen, who was going to do just that job. The committee had a big task ahead of it, and under three months to do the job on. In fact, the committee was given a deadline but was nevertheless completed in good time before the Education Committee gave its decision. When this sample had such a short period of time, it would be thought that there was a work that was urgent. In particular, given that the Government and government parties have pointed out in a number of contexts that support through the Loan Fund should be one of the main contributions of the public in this reform, it should be considered that the Government intended to present to the Storting a separate study funding case relating to the continuing education reform. But in spite of the urgency of the Government's Pettersen Committee, despite the government's saying that it believes the government should contribute through study funding, the government parties have come to the Right and the Advance Party expecting the Government to come back to this in the context of a wide review of study funding issues. A broad review? In this case, it must be after the Aamodt Committee, which is to carry out a broad review of the legislation, has presented its position and the Ministry has drawn up a notification of the size, consultation and consultation periods and everything that belongs to it. This will mean, after a little quick headcount, that the Storting will be able to deal with this at the earliest in the autumn of 2000, and then we will talk quickly about the revised budget in spring 2001 before there can be any mention of appropriations in this area at all. In the view of the Workers' Party, faster treatment is necessary than then, and we have also made proposals in which, together with SV, we ask the Government to submit a separate case of study funding in connection with the reform of continuing education. A unanimous committee strongly emphasises the need for continuing training reform. A unanimous committee assumes that the social partners, as outlined by them, allocate funds to the preparation of wages and salaries for continuing training. But when it comes to the area that the government says is going to be the base of the government's contribution, then the government parties choose to push it out into the blue. Also, when government parties cannot participate in giving adults an individual right without further education, they quickly take a picture of an action-damaged policy with fine words, but there is little concrete to come with. In the case of real competences, too, there is little sense in the Government, where there have been many people, but in this area, fortunately, a majority in the Grand Duchy determines the important price tip that real competences are to be equivalent to formal competence in admission to continuing education. Several speakers from the Labour Party will address this in this debate, but I also mention it because it is important for the funding of studies. For many of the adults who want to take education, they have real skills and thus do not need support for as long as ordinary students and students. It must also be taken into account when considering the various proposals for changing study funding. The objective of continuing education and training reform, which enables working life to meet international challenges, which provide individual greater security in their daily work situation and which is an important tool for equalising inequalities in society, is firmly established. However, if the Committee in several areas has made important clarifications in relation to what the Government has presented, we have not yet come to work on this big message as far as it is desirable in the view of the Workers' Party. I still hope, however, that the Government and the State Council of Lilletun are prepared to bring us further into work, so that the continuing training reform can become the major reform it has the potential to become.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e971	The Progress Party also agrees that increased competence and good use of human resources are necessary to enable business to meet the challenges of a knowledge-based economic and technological competitiveness situation. This is, of course, also the business community itself interested in, and it is therefore natural that it bears the costs of doing so on its own in substance. The party of progress is opposed to measures that will make the framework conditions of business even worse than they are today. We will therefore go against a proposal that obliges companies to pay training for their employees in addition to what the company itself wants to offer. We will also go towards an individual statutory right to education leave. Such leave should be voluntary and must naturally be agreed between the individual companies and workers. The general economy and the individual enterprise are expected to see in particular the benefits of an employee increasing their real competence, which can be used for the benefit of the enterprise. If an individual right to education leave is legislated, we fear that it may have major consequences, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. Long-term leave in the context of continuing training may destroy their operational basis, which has already legalised the right to e.g.: maternity leave to wear. In addition, although it is also a legal right for men to, for example: taking out maternity leave, there are many who can neither afford it nor have time to avail themselves of it. What is the point of a statutory right? We cannot – in our view – have a right law without economic rights. We strongly warn against this. If economic rights are granted – who will then pay? Or who's gonna make it at the expense of? Are there going to be kids in primary school? It's bad enough with resources in primary school as it is today. We therefore propose that leave rights in the context of continuing training should not be legalised, but left to voluntary agreements between the enterprise and the employee. But it is in any case important that industry and schools cooperate in the education of labour. Higher education institutions and universities need to become stronger actors in the competence market. However, this presupposes a significantly greater freedom for State institutions to organise their activities than they currently have. They must be guaranteed flexibility in relation to the adjustment of the workforce in order to meet today's demands from business. This is what several people have come up with today. If the reform is adopted as proposed by the majority, the Progress Party is in favour of giving real competence to admission to training. Education is as well-known real competence set in the system. Real competences are therefore made up of basic knowledge and experience acquired through life and learning. And I can't help asking – because I mean to know that more people in this house actually have real competence only in being a depositor: shouldn't it also be credited to a knowledge account? It is therefore appropriate to establish a system in which real competences can replace formal education requirements, a system that gives adults the right to be admitted to education, based on their real competences instead of, and more generally, formal education. Finally, the Progress Party considers that it is not reasonable to introduce a new reform which, at best, cannot be implemented in practice and which, in the worst case, will impose considerable additional costs on business.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e992	«Kunskapsboom is waiting for us», reports the Evening Post in its main edition of the annual course days at NTNU in Trondheim for a couple of weeks ago. The greatest interest was given to Vice-Chancellor Spøtvoll his presentation of a so-called scenario which concluded that the further development of the knowledge society would give the Ministry of Education as much as the Ministry of Finance, and of course in the composition of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. In my view, it's an excellent way to put an important thing in perspective. The value of focusing on knowledge and competence is high on the policy agenda throughout the OECD area. We're talking about a knowledge-based economy and investing in human capital based on an over-interpretation that such an investment is forward-looking and will give both the community and the individual a lack of return. Through St. Meld. No 42, The Reform of Competence, the Government proposes some important steps to meet the major challenges of competence. The initiation of the notification was initiated by the Stortinget by a Decision of 29 February 1996 on the basis of a Document No. Eight proposals from the SV representative Øystein Djupedal. As a follow-up to the decision, the Jagland government reduced the Buer selection, with wide representation from working and social life. The government's work on the Storing Message has largely had the option from the Buer selection and the many hearing responses to it as a basis. In addition, all the time in the process, we have put great emphasis on social partners and public and private educational actors, among others. through its own distribution selections which have looked more closely at some of the main issues, such as the right to leave, the adaptation of the legislation of the State Loan Fund and the role of the labour market in the context of a stronger focus on continuing training. The need for stronger and more targeted efforts to develop skills for adults has wide-ranging upsurge in all groups and at all levels of society. Lifelong learning can no longer be just a honeymoon. Increasingly rapid changes in working and social life increase the need for continuous updating of knowledge. Only by being at the forefront when it comes to competence can we ensure a good competitive position and increase value creation. Recruitment of new and young workers is not sufficient. There needs to be more investment in empowerment in the adult population. To put it simply, we can talk about a two-part challenge: firstly, building a good foundation for lifelong learning through solid basic education, and secondly, meeting the need for continuous updating of knowledge and competence through targeted continuing education. It's the last challenge that the government has above all taken up through St.meld. No 42, in a situation where competition for skills is intensified and knowledge is available to most on the global network. It's not about putting a new train on the rails, but about moving on, intensifying and making more targeted a process that's already in good shape. It is very important to be aware that there is already a high level of continuing training activity in the labour market, in ordinary educational institutions, in student associations, in distance learning institutions and in other institutions. The challenge is to build on the good experience, mobilise the diversity of actors, and to bring together all the good forces in a targeted scheme that can create more of the knowledge and competences that individuals, working life and society demand and need. There's a lot of people here to go in the same direction. The Government has therefore undertaken to set up a wide-ranging competence development forum to deal with the dialogue and have a real role to play in the implementation process. Furthermore, we have taken initiatives for active income policy cooperation with the social organisations towards the mid-term review of the spring, where questions related to the further follow-up of the reform of skills will be central. I see it as a good thing that the social partners bring continuing training into this context. In response, the Prime Minister has given a clear signal that the Government will contribute constructively, with a view to ensuring a moderate input. I am pleased that the Committee in its configuration has given broad support to the main lines of the Government's Communication and considers it important in a educational, employment and industrial policy perspective. I am also pleased that a number of members of the Committee stress that reform must be an important tool for reducing educational gaps and evening out differences in society. The Committee concludes that the reform will be five on all, those in work, as well as those outside the labour market for various reasons. The lift shall be based on the perspective of lifelong learning, based on a broad understanding of competence, in which both professional, technological, social, cultural and ethical dimensions shall have their place. This is in line with the labour market’s needs for skills that are important for the further development of the job as a ‘learning organisation’. In the debate about the Buer selection, the focus of interest was on public education institutions. I am pleased that the Committee has decided that these should play an active role as providers of skills requested by working life and individuals. The ministry sees it as a priority task to contribute to the necessary conversion that such an enhanced exposure will entail. One of the tasks will be to develop even more fruitful cooperation between the public education system, the labour market and private educational actors, e.g. study associations, distance learning institutions and public higher education institutions. Several people today talk about motivation in relation to being able to bet on more further and further training. I think the public spheres here can become important actors with the experience they have in taking real competences and developing it seriously. Furthermore, more use will be made of information and communication technologies and more focus on the workplace as the learning venues are between the important development tasks. The Government is supported by the submission of an individual right to education leave. A selection has already developed legislative proposals, which are now being heard with the deadline of 19 February. The government aims to come back to Stortinget with a billing proposal for spring. The Committee shows a strong commitment to the issue of real competence, and asks the Government to establish systems that give grown-ups the right to document competences acquired outside of regular education, without having to walk the road to traditional probationary systems. This is in accordance with the Government's intentions in the message. On the basis of the Committee's comments, I intend to develop practical arrangements which are simple and transparent for the students concerned and which can be practised by the institutions without unnecessary red tape. I remind you that the government has seen 10 million in the 1999 budget. kr for project work on real skills at the continuing training level. The Ministry of Labour plans to involve the main social organisations in this work. The local government has been assigned to the State Education Office in Oppland, and the responsibility for the professional development lies with the State Resource and Wax Training Centre. The Committee is in favour of the legal right to receive such training for adults who have not completed primary school or for other reasons need basic school training. There are a number of challenges that require further distribution and work from both the state and local authorities. The government will come back to Stortinget with proposals in this context. The majority in the Committee will also ensure that adults who want to do so are able to receive further training. However, there is no number in the configuration behind any suggestions on how to ensure this in practice. The Labour Party and the SV propose to introduce individual rights, while the Government Party is in favour of an extended municipal obligation to provide such training. However, notes and suggestions suggest that I can continue to work to ensure that further training is provided with the basis for the assessment of real competence. I recall the fact that in the framework transfers for the implementation of Reform 94 resources were put in place to meet the growing need for further training through an overall scale of 375 pst. Today, the real volume comes down at the base of 350 pst. In the light of the challenges faced by the reform of competences, I will now consider how we can ensure that the resources that the Stortinget put into the transfers to the county councils are used according to its intentions: to adapt the provision of further training for both young people with rights and needs. In conclusion, in line with the intention of the message, the Government asks that a greater proportion of the various support and support schemes managed by the SND be targeted at enhancing the competence of small and medium-sized enterprises. I want to discuss with the Minister of Industry how this can be monitored in practice. But as the representative Fladmark also said, this is consistent with what has been presented in the message from him earlier. When it comes to the study funding, as Mr. Konglevoll said, I can tell you that we will come back to the short-term issues of the budget. But we also need to have a greater review of the study funding system as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1030	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1033	As the Council of State specified, there is a broad disintegration of most of the long lines of the work presented by the Government, starting from among others. in the long-standing efforts of the National Organisation to accept that there are different paths to competence. But if we scrape a little bit in the Fernissen, I think there's a different opinion in the committee and in the room here about what we're putting in the reform. I even hand out a diploma every year. More and more of those who receive these diplomas are adults. They have not completed three years of secondary education; they have taken this training in combination with being in employment. And when we're talking about the future today, we're talking about adults who, based on their real skills, are going to get an education, we're not talking about them getting on the school bench. We're talking about combined schemes, whether it's in secondary education or in the combination of work and education. This will, of course, be important for funding, but also for the actors involved in training. Adult training organisations are the most familiar with adult education. That's why we would have hoped that the Council of State would say that they're going to be in and get an exam for a period of time, so that we can really bring the adults in. One question to the Council of State is therefore: why can't the Council of State see what kind of help this would have given to the reform? And the second question is, what will the Council of State do about that there is now actually no majority for the 375 pst order? Will you follow the Right and the Advance Party and leave the market raw? Or do you want to come back with an approach to justice, so that the weakest too are lifted?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1040	First, I want to agree entirely with the representative Knudsen that there are multiples for the long lines, and I want to like her to pay tribute to LO who raised this question very much, and the part of the main agreement that LO and NHO came up, which was important in many ways when the Stortinget first dealt with it on the basis of the Djupedal proposal. When it comes to the law of law for study associations, it's a matter that we have to assess. I don't want to reject it, but we don't have a goal when it comes to the assessment. And just as the representative, Fladmark, said, I'm going to promise that we'll look at that part in the message that we're about to hear about Reform 94 in the spring. So I don't reject it, but there's some relationship around what I need to work with a little bit longer. From the Workers' Party and the SV's side, it is claimed that the Government's proposal on the statutory right to provide mature provision of further training in practice is nothing more than a continuation of today's regulatory regime. It is not correct. A law is for the first time more governing than a regulation. In addition, in any legislative proposal, the government will come back with more important clarifications. where the question of the nature of the provision to be made by the county council is concerned, the question of the phase-in of the obligation over time, the question of the adaptation required for the purpose of organising on the basis of its situation and real-time competence. The main difference in such a bill will be precisely that reform 94 does not adapt to adulthood. So it's very often looked like 375 pst. is too much. They haven't been searchers. If it had been our custom grown-ups, it would have been our searchers. That's why I encourage the Workers' Party to support this line, and then they can of course still fight for their primary option. But I think this is an improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1049	It's almost like you have to complain that we have such a nice government council on this particular field, because it's so hard to get hold of him with special gravity. But anyway, the road gets there as we go, we've heard. The roads I walk are usually paved in advance. But today, when we hear the minister with the greatest obvious first mentioned ‘the community’ and then ‘the single person’, this path may be paved with the fate of individuals. He also claims – he certainly does – that the scope rule of 375 p.m. in today's market no more than 350 pst will be used. Whether this is because you don't have the knowledge or the desire to take advantage of it, or if it just comes out of the fact that it is, I don't know. But the 25 pst. remaining, it may not be possible to ensure that the adults in need enter this market. He was also convinced that it was promising that the social partners engaged in this. Of course, it is, but these parties should not have been even more focused, as the reform really concerns the employer and employee much more than, for example, the reform. the public?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1058	First I'll be allowed to return the nice words from the representative Ursula Evje. Yeah, the road gets there while we go. In a way, it's true when it comes to this reform, because it's a process. We're already training for quite a few billion dollars in society, we're now looking at structures, and it's combined with the negotiation processes in business. It's essentially true that part of the road is still there while we go, but we have to know where we're going at the same time. There is no migration in the unknown, but to some extent one may nevertheless say that there is a process. I already want to turn my back on the line when I said socially important first, and so important to the individual. Clearly, the individual comes first, but if the individual is allowed to increase his or her skills, it will also be socially useful. It's good to see it in context. Is it enough with these 25 psts? extra? We don't know that for sure, but at least we can use 375 pst. Based on FAFO studies, it turns out that there are a lot of people who are initially not motivated. I said something about the motivational work, and then I made a queue within 375 pst. The reason why we haven't done it right in this context is because we don't know what it costs. We haven't taken steps here that we don't quite have an overview of relative to the cost. On the basis of the LO first, I have to say that the NHO and other social organisations have come quite strongly after. I'm impressed and think we're privileged as a nation when the biggest parties to the world of work say that, instead of wage increases, there's going to be good skills enhancement. I'd like to take the hat off for it!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1067	Let me remind you that there is no majority in the committee that is behind the wish to move the diploma out of the public system to private actors. The majority of the Committee does not believe that there is a particularly good way to pursue education policy. I noticed that the Council of State expressed a desire for the future merger of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education. It's a funny thought. I assume it is pending such a reform that the Council of State has decided to decline to continue to work-intensive political responsibilities. The enlarged Council of State role could, of course, be labour-intensive enough. If I understood correctly, the Council of State also expressed the same assessment that the Prime Minister made in his press conference before Christmas, namely that the budget adopted by the Stortinget before Christmas should be a very good and proper starting point for a moderate wage settlement and to emphasise that the reform of continuing education can also be seen as part of this settlement. But both the Council of State and the Prime Minister forgot to draw attention to the fact that this would not have been the case if the Government had adopted its draft budget. Then the starting point for such a settlement would be very poor, because then you could have 100 pst. certainty has predicted that the social partners would require full compensation for the tax increases contained in the budget. So here you have to be able to say that happiness, or rather the majority of the population, has been better than the government's mind. If the Ministry of Education is to have the truly forward-looking coordination role that the Council of State is thinking of, is my question: Does the Council of State think that the Department has sufficient resources to take on this task today? Does the ministry really have the power to carry out the coordination task that the new forum is supposed to perform?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1079	I think the representative heard a little wrong when he thought I said merger. I believe the representative Wohnning and I am some of you that if education issues were as important as financial issues both in the Government and in the Stortinget, it would be good for individuals and for society. So I think we'll find each other even if he's been a little bit wrong. I know what the committee has said about the law, and of course I'm going to stick to it. I am still working on a job, and I am going to comment on the work and assess the issues in the big message that I advised instead. Does the department have sufficient resources and sufficient power? Yeah, now I've been challenging the educational institutions for a year to pick up my gloves. I've said that in the department we get an equal challenge. I mean, by re-prioritizing, we have resources to do this. We need those recordings that a forum of expertise can give us, because it is quite clear that in the Ministry of Education, which has existed for well over 100 years, there is a school and a "scule" thought. Now one should think a lot wider competence, and it's quite obvious that it's going to require something from us. The government has so far shown great will and great ability in the cross-sectional work we had with the competence reform when we presented the big message, and I am optimistic when it comes to further work. I also hope that the representative will continue to pay and ensure that we are allowed to sit for so long that we are documented that we can do it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1088	The council had a claim that I thought was reasonable. He said that if the education services had been adapted to adults, there would have been enough applicants. I wish it was that simple. But we have gradually got some examples around the county councils where they have adapted the offer to adults, and it turns out that it has also been difficult to get applicants for these offers, so I don't think the claim makes. In the course of winter, or it's probably not until spring, we're going to evaluate Reform 94. In one area, we know that reform 94 has been good, namely with regard to the individual right that 16-19-year-olds have had. It has worked as intended. We have a system today where almost everyone uses the offer. And that's the experience we, the Working Party and the SV, put in when we propose an individual right for adults. We know that we have done this in high school with 16-19-year-olds, and we believe that we will also succeed with this in relation to adults. We think it might also be necessary if we're going to be able to develop offers for adults. So my question is, why not take with us the experience we have with Reform 94, the experience that is good, where we have succeeded, and then join in a proposal for an individual right to education? The state council now proposes to oblige the county council to have an offer, is just to continue the struggle with the county council on the 375 p.m. framework, a fight that really does not serve anyone. With an individual right we would avoid the whole problem around the 375 pst.-frame. And from experience, it's very likely that we'll succeed in what was the goal, getting people in to take education.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1097	A ‘drew’ claim, said the representative Reikvam – yes, to the extent that it was as bombastic as he referred to me. But that there would have been a lot more who would have been in the system if one had had had more custom options for adults, I believe the representative Rikvam and I could be quite a few about it. And seven if some county councils had adapted, one did not come up to 375 pst. But then at least the representative of Rikvam and I can say that if we add up to a capacity of 375 pst, there is quite a potential for development there, and so it should be interesting for him to vote in favour of this proposal. For what happened at the same time when one said that there were no more seekers, was that there were other actors that grew enormously in the same period. This indicates that there was something out of tune. Now I also want to welcome other actors, but we need the public offer based on the very purpose of those who can't pay or have others pay for themselves. That's why it's important to get it done properly. Then the court has worked for 16-19-year-olds – there is the representative Rikvam and I have some. But at the same time, it's clear that it's a lot easier to create a 16-19-year-old system, see what we need and find a functional system for it than to say that we know that we have an unknown amount of people, maybe several hundred thousand, who don't have further education, and give them an individual right. It's not easy to calculate or create a functional system, but of course, what we have to do now is to start and find solutions. I also mean that we can handle the model that we have added to the message. Then there are several trains at other conditions. But based on the clarification I made about what a law-enforcement was, it should also be interesting for the Workers' Party and SV to support at least that reinforcement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1104	I think it is very positive that the Council of State expresses in relation to the statement of income, that the State will actively enter if the parties so wish. And I hope that the bulk of the population that is behind today's adjustment will be an important contribution in that context. I have tried to follow closely in the posts of government parties' representatives here today related to secondary education in relation to the notification and the proposals made, and I waited with excitement for what the Council of State would say about the proposal to legislate an obligation for county councils in relation to today's system. I have not been able – it is possible that I have not managed to capture it – to find out what is the difference between the current system of 375 p.m.-framework in the county municipalities, and what the government has proposed in the notification. That question remains for me. I am of the opinion that when you have a regulatory duty, it is linked to a law house that is there today. So what I'm experiencing is that the government is going to use a law firm they already have. And I can't quite take it inward when some of the government parties use the term 'a strengthened duty'. It could be interesting if the Council of State could comment on that as well. But the important thing for me is to know what is the difference between today's system and what the Government has made in the notice and what the government parties have proposed here today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1111	First, I would like to use the ability to give a flower to the process commander and the result of the setting. I shall not use the words used by the representative Rikvam. I agree that there is history that gets to do it, as the representative on the pay side said. But it's a solid and interesting work that's been done. The representative of Kristiansen spoke about the scope, and so did the representative of Rikvam, and they showed that it has not worked quite well. Some of the things that didn't work were that one couldn't agree on the statements for the text and the understanding of the regulation, among other things. Then a man spoke of the places, or of the living man, and of the elephants that were in these places. There was an unworthy discussion here, and a lot of aggression and a lot of creativity were used in a way on things that didn't strengthen education so much. I believe that both the representative of Rikvam and the representative of Kristiansen are a few. It also created the situation in the county councils that there was not enough trust in this regulation. When she has not worked well, it may be because of how she is formulated and how we have managed her in the department. Now I've tried to be so liberal in the administration that the number has fallen too much. That's why we need to figure out other ways. I said we should have a question about what provision the county municipality should come with. We're going to legislate on the question of phase-in, how to adapt it, and we're going to legislate on the issue of adaptation. We'll be much more precise in the way of formulating this, and once again my claim is: it must be a lot better to ask us to design the proposal and then see what it looks like when it comes. I still interpret it as if the Labour Party accepts it, but they won't pretend they think it's very good. I understand that they accept that we do it, but they don't want to actively vote for it. I thought they should do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1118	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1121	Knowledge is becoming more and more important. We've gone up in a time of faster and faster development. Furthermore, society is characterised by enormous upheavals, and this sets new requirements for migration in all areas, both in the public and private sectors. That's why it's so important that everyone now has to share in a new knowledge promise. In our opinion, individual fixes are the key to making this reform successful. We have to admit that today's offer is disparate. Today, it's the one that has a lot of education already, that gets even more. Then there will be someone who will be hanging after and who will still lag behind. The Labour Party makes proposals for individual rights when it applies to continuing training for adults. The government and the committee majority also mean this, but within the framework of today's rule of 375 p.m. This is skeptical for us in the Labour Party when we see how the county councils today practice this regulation. A law is more governing than a regulation, said the Council of State earlier in the row change. Yeah, that might be right. Today, however, the Ministry has no means of intervening in the county administration's management of the scope regulation when it comes to the dimensioning of further training. The situation in the county councils today is not related to the unwillingness to establish a offer of 375 pst. In fact, they also recognize that they have applicants, but they fall beyond the age limit of 16-19 years. It is linked to the county economy, and it is very little that the government party and the government council and his department will come up with a bill to the county councils to establish an amount of 375 pst., as long as it is not a matter of adding more funds to the county councils. The government party also says quite clearly that it should be financed within the current economic framework, and we are, in fact, as far as we are concerned. I'm glad that there's a number of people who want to give adults a chance to prove their real skills. On the one hand, evidence of real competence will be directed towards the labour market, i.e. people who want a specific competence to master a job or a job, and on the other hand, will be directed towards the institutions when it comes to admission to a qualification-based education. Everyone who's been at work knows that you don't get enough competence just by reading books and taking exams. It goes without saying that people who have been in work for several years have acquired a knowledge that, in many cases, goes far beyond what they can get from an educational institution. The size has previously taken a decision that is groundbreaking in many ways. There was a group of help nurses in the Orkdal area who wanted to retrain themselves to nurses. There we established a principle for later that real competence would shorten the study. Such a principle is important, it gives status to work, and in many ways we made a decision that accelerated one of the most important issues in the reform of competences. Our main challenge is to get everyone involved, so give a lift of competence to the entire population. However, measures must be targeted at those who lack basic schooling or further training as far as possible. For the Labour Party, a key point of the competence reform is to implement all available experience and resources in this area. Although large in capacity, educational institutions and private operators will hardly be able to meet their full needs in the short term. It is therefore crucial that decentralised services are established in the districts and in the workplaces. Here the study associations will become entirely central actors. In most cases, study associations are best acquainted with workplaces through extensive experience in organising vocational training courses. Not least, it is important that the study associations have a good geographical spread. For this reason, we also need to look at the relationships between the regular educational institutions and the colleges, so that they can provide the best possible range of services and the widest possible range of services without ‘treading’ in each other’s beds. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State to consider giving course organisers involved in the reform of continuing education, the right to study in a transitional phase, as they had for a period before.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1142	Learn to do all your life, says a lady I know, who is 75 years old and studies French. A positive attitude throughout life to acquire competence and get it documented is important both for individuals, for society and for our businesses. The challenges we face as individuals in terms of training are to have the courage and the willingness to take action that can give a more meaningful everyday life. At the same time, companies have a need to adhere to technological developments and to the requirements of customers for documentation and standard approval. It is therefore important for workers to increase their skills. The change and conversion requirement will increase in all activities, both public and private. The fact that both the employee and the enterprise have the benefit and interest of schooling is a driving force to realize it. Opinion has conducted a study for LO showing that very many, 83 pst. of the economically active, it is considered that it is quite important to participate in continuing training in the context of the job. First of all, people will invest in continuing training to become better qualified in the job they have, but also to be better equipped for the labour market. It was almost a year since the Stortinget decided to establish a full-time decentralised nursing education in the Orkdals region. Adult women in these districts were given the opportunity of education by this decision. Auxiliary caregivers have a real competence in care. They must already do much of the nursing work where the lack of nurses is great. They have general study competence, and it is reasonable that they will be counted for many years of work experience in the form of a compressed education course. In the decision taken, the Government was asked to submit proposals for compressed education courses in different disciplines in the context of the reform of continuing education and training. Recognition of real competences is a challenge. The projects previously carried out, ‘User-adapted training’ in Oppland and the ‘Part-Competence Project’ in Nord-Trøndelag and Akershus, show that this is a difficult area, but that it is possible for adults to have their real competence documented and valued, and that a training situation can be organised according to their valued and documented competences. There is a lot of corporate internal training in our country that is outside the documentation systems of the public education system. This is also the case with most of the study group's activities and parts of distance learning. High levels of competence also include trustees who, through years of work with statutory and contractual works, gain experience and who also learn through study work and course activities. Such competence should be seriously assessed. In principle, real competence must be an equivalent admission requirement for continuing training. It is crucial for the reform to create a system that allows adults to demonstrate their real competence and to be able to be admitted to education based on it instead of formal educational backgrounds. It must also be possible to shorten education based on real skills, in short what we call the old §20 scheme from the law on vocational training. Adults with long experience in working life, with various courses and continuing training, must be entitled to demonstrate their real competence without having to walk the path of traditional probationary systems. I'm very happy that there's a majority for this in the vote. Unfortunately, the Workers' Party and the SV are in a minority to believe that decisions taken by a higher education institution can be appealed against for their own nationwide name, consisting of representatives of educational institutions and social partners. It is now important that offers are developed that can absorb the increased demand and that there are financial support mechanisms that enable adults to make use of them. It is an investment for the future to invest in continuing education, both for individuals and for businesses. The right to training leave for individual workers is important. But funding also needs to be put in place if adults are to be given the opportunity to invest in student leave. LO has announced that they will address educational questions in the spring tariff settlement. The reform is a key element in further developing the solidarity option. The willingness to continue it is reflected in the willingness to find the necessary solutions for the reform of competences.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1175	It is a very big and important reform we are debating today. When it comes to reality, I think I'm going to say that this is a deal about most in the committee. Right, there's a little bit of a rhetorical difference. Here it's creeping in some right-hand torch, and it gets so bad. The problem with this is that we are creating some expectations that no one in the Committee has shown practical solutions for how this should be done. What we are interested in from the Right side is, above all, to achieve a reform that can work in practice, which can work for the individual, for the individual worker and for the individual enterprise – and therefore for the whole of society. And then we have to go in, not with the big revolutionary measures, but with a lot of small measures and a lot of different actors. It's not the big revolution we're going to adopt today, it's not the big breakthrough, but we should give a signal that we need to build on what exists, and that we need to further develop the actors that are already in the process of doing this great work, because there's nothing new about continuing education in Norwegian society. I'm very pleased that the committee stresses that there must be a shortage on the provider's side, and that there should be room for both public and private actors, because we need all of these if we're to do something. A school battle has been said a little bit about, which is mentioned in the main message and hardly mentioned by the committee, is the technical spheres, which undoubtedly have an important role to play in continuing education and training in the future, as they have had at present. The competence of these colleges is very much sought-after in the business community, and there is a school team that has not found its place between further training and the university spheres. This is a little bit of a problem. That's what we're going to get back to, but I'm already going to signal that I'm very much in doubt if the technical disciplines can still have a safe and good existence within the 375 pst. to be covered by the counties within the present day. A very large part of the skills enhancement we have in continuing education takes place in companies, and in the Right we see this as perhaps the most important area of competence enhancement. In our comments in the setting, we've put a lot of emphasis on further developing this, because it's not safe for everyone to go to college or in further education. Many enterprises, especially small ones, also have problems with workers disappearing for shorter or longer periods of time in order to receive continuing training, taking courses and attending seminars, and very often what happens in enterprises will be the most important, most nutritious and most forward-looking training. We want to stimulate this. We want to develop existing skills schemes, for example: within SND. But I think we have to go even further when it comes to stimulation and motivation than what the majority in the committee has suggested. The majority say that the authorities are responsible for motivating groups and individuals to participate in continuing education, but I feel that the majority is not willing to accept the consequences of their good desire for stimulation and motivation. On the right, I have put in a proposal that I hope will be a little wider than just a few of us in the Right, a proposal that will stimulate both employers and employees to take a greater part in this important work. There's a two-part proposal we're putting in. We ask that over-price write-offs be assessed for investments in continuing education and training. In practice and in a single language, it would say that enterprises would have to spend a little more than the cost of engaging in such measures. We also propose, in the same way as tax-free banking, that it should be possible for individual employees to set up their own educational accounts with tax advantages. I'm very disappointed that this hasn't even been a theme today in other articles, and I'm very disappointed that so few in the committee gave us support to this, because this would be a concrete and good motivation. The Special Representative Lyngstad, who called for what Right would do financially, has here one answer in addition to the eight-ten he got from the representative Wage in a previous post.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1192	I think it is almost a little sad that a debate like this is turning into a question of tax-free banking savings or a postponement of parts of the reform to investigate further. If you look up a little and see what this really is about, maybe it's the biggest education reform Norway's been through – bigger than all the other Right was against, like 7-year-old primary school, 9-year-old primary school, the conversion to secondary school, etc. This is probably the biggest one, not just by people who lack primary or secondary education, now have the opportunity to take an education, get a qualification, get a letter on the competence they have or complement their competence, but probably because we're going into a society where learning, after-school education, becomes something lifelong. You go through learning all your life because society changes so fast. It is also funny that in a situation where the universities and colleges now see more and more that learning must take place in the context of working life, in the situation in which the skills and knowledge are to be used, there are some people who doubt that when working life itself is to pursue its education, we will return to the old schoolwork. Then we're going to have the competence, the paper that's going to go in and go into the usual race that was made a hundred years ago. As politicians and education system administrators, we need to ensure that continuing training is in line with and adapted to the labour market that demands it. And now we see that networks are being set up, opportunities are being created to take bits of education around the workplace. We've come a long way in Norway with that. The network that several universities and universities have joined together in NITOL is an excellent example of Norway’s being almost entirely in front of building those networks. Many people believe that this is primarily about the fact that the students are decentralized, that everyone who wants greater skills can get it at their place of work, can get it in their homes and communicate with a teacher via the Internet, get feedback on tasks, etc. It's an important part of it, but the most important part of it is maybe that all the teachers can be decentralised, that you can use people out there who have a particular competence as teachers, as counselors and as advisers in such learning. In a sense, we go into a society where not all of us become students and learn all the time, but where we all become teachers – we can also use the skills we have in a particular field, and pass it on to others who need it. It is a completely revolutionary change in society that is taking place in the reform of continuing education and training and in the continuing education and training society into which we are going. An example of this is the agreement that the process industry is now concluding with NTNU to receive training for its own. The reform that we are making here, and the bulk of the population behind it, can also make it possible for them to get papers that this is a competence that they need and that you have proof of. It requires that we get a system of flexibility, a system where people can adapt learning to their special needs. It also means that everyone has to have a right to this. There can be no such thing as how many dollars you have been able to deposit in your tax-free savings account, or what employers you have, or what other private economy you have, to decide whether you should have the opportunity – in the society where everyone depends on learning your whole life – to take this leave. That right must apply to all. Then someone's talking about that then we also have to know what the cost is. I'm not going to say, as a member of the finance committee, that it costs what it costs. On the contrary, it's going to cost enough money, but what would the cost be if we weren't going to go into the community where everyone was able to take training? This is where the trade union movement lies in front of us politicians. Associations are involved in wage negotiations and say that they want to take out some of their pay requirements as continuing training, and there are employers who say that we want to take out some of the profits in a skills and quality building for employees. This is the future, and then it can't be us, the politicians, who are going to put us on our backs and be brake pads. Here we have to be involved in what's going on in the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1214	In order to follow up on the representative Giske: Like all other goods, training should also be offered and distributed as evenly as possible. One of the safest predictions is that the attitude we are dealing with today is just a first step in a process that is turning Norway into a knowledge society where education and competence for all are central. We know that learning all your life will be a necessity whether you see this on the part of the companies, or on the part of the individual – otherwise you will be accomplices. In line with this, more and better ways are required to meet the demand for education. It will require greater flexibility in the education system and in enterprises. We literally have to tear down the barriers that exist between the educational pathways and different types of schools and educational institutions. Of course, it is necessary to take a reasonable level of account of the needs of the labour market, but it remains a good general rule to meet the individual’s needs for education. The majority – SV, the Progress Party and the Workers’ Party – take on board the consequences of what has been said so beautifully that the educational institutions should take on the basis of the individual and equate the labour and real competences of the people with the formal competence. As a result, and when the trials – which we expect – will only increase, there will be a debate on the rules of competence that are gradually built up in education and employment. It is beyond doubt that many people today experience the requirements of competence as an unreasonable coercion in relation to developing themselves. The formal requirements do not ask for motivation, and they are probably not very effective either if we look at the need for human resources and demands of the right woman in the right place. Often, the rules of competence have also been illogical. It is likely that there will still be a serious handicap about someone like this. intended for higher education in the hotel sector, used all possibilities through secondary school to be both outsourced and to take different choices in the field of kitchen services. It will probably not help him to enter higher education at all. The most important thing is not the formal evidence that comes with you when you get into a continuing education situation, which is much more important than what you bring with you when you leave. what Trond Giske said about the process industry at NTNU – in fact, once you have come in, you have not had the opportunity to get proof when you go out, as the situation is today. It's changing now. The results of The Open University in the United Kingdom also say something about actual demand when the formal fences are demolished. The LO and the Workers' Party have worked to ensure that all professionals and people from all walks of life know that the education system has something to give them. This means that the right to education, the flexibility of the education system and of enterprises, real skills and assessment methods will have to be central. We note that the government parties here in Stortinget have gone beyond the government by giving rights to everyone at primary school, but you don't take the consequences of high school, which is the bridge itself into the working life for everyone. And we can't get past the fact that this is about basic attitudes that shouldn't be more shocking in this house than that they should now be all-round, that it's still an important task to work for equality. Whether the knowledge society is to be real to everyone, including those outside the labour market, society must ensure it in some form. It has something to do with the equality of our welfare society, and here the government is not, so far, willing to take the steps.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1234	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. At the same time, the President makes it clear that he has the intention to invite Stortinget to go through today's overtime map. We're going to have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1239	It's a very happy day in Stortinget. It's also a happy day for Norwegian work, because if a promise looks a little bit, one will see that part of the decisions that will be taken here will have enormous consequences for the working life of the next century. In this way one has to say that especially the Right, when one hears part of the posts, follows a good tradition. I think it was in connection with the presentation of the Right 100 Year Report that Trygve Bull said it should have been called “a hundred years as a brake block”. It's interesting to see that the Right now enters the new century with the same tradition, being a brake block in this area as well. It is true that there is a lot of continuing education and training in the Norwegian community. What we're doing in this setting is we're systematizing education in a completely different way and giving opportunities to many people who haven't gotten one before. It has always been the intention of SV, even when we put in our proposal that was the beginning of the political process here in Stortinget. That many have contributed along the way is correct, but the political process started here, with a proposal that SV submitted. We wanted a statutory right to continuing education; now we have a statutory right to leave. What that means in practice is that it is no longer a good thing for them to get continuing education and knowledge throughout their lives, it becomes a right for the many. That means there's a lot of problems – of course it is. Many people choose to focus on the problems of such a reform, but that is the opposite thing to focus on. This reform provides a limitless opportunity for many people who are currently unable to fill their working lives, where the employer actually sits and determines who will be able to grow human beings and grow knowledge and opportunities for new jobs. This possibility has now been granted to the worker. That's the one thing, and the most important thing, in today's setting. And it's determined by a broad majority in the Storting, and thank you for that. The second thing that is also important is that real competences are re-assessed here. It is a new thing in Norwegian education history and in Norwegian working life that the knowledge you acquire as a human being throughout your life should be given emphasis. Putting a little to the fore means that typographer Kristiansen, who has been the case rapporteur for this announcement, or Minister Lilletun, who neither of them has formal higher education, could probably now have qualified for a higher degree if they found it right when they had finished their big and ministerial life. It's a unique thing that all the knowledge you have as a human being, now has to be given attention in a completely different way. It is a new vision of knowledge that is introduced, but equally important: a new view of humanity is introduced – that is, man is something more than just what is presented in the knowledge papers to which you can refer. So both Kristiansen and Lilletun as ministers can probably now start a great academic career when they choose to be done with politics. Let me also focus on two other important things. It has now been expressly stated that the Section 20 scheme will be in place. There's been a lot of nonsense around it, especially in the last big-time during Minister Hernes' work. The Section 20 scheme is now to be continued and expanded. It is also very important in relation to the same knowledge and the same human vision. It is also important that everyone now has a statutory right to primary education. There is also a major and important reform that will be adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1250	Before we close the debate, it is important to clarify that there is now a majority in real-life competence. And it goes beyond what the government had proposed, as one equates real competence with formal competence. Furthermore, it requires a completely different flexibility on the part of educational institutions, which we require the Council of State to immediately take the initiative to rework with them and inspire them further to launch trials and development projects quickly. There is agreement on the right to leave and also the right to primary school. But before we leave each other and before this debate is over, the Council of State has to decide how he will arrange the situation that there is no majority supporting the Government's proposal to give the county council a statutory obligation to provide secondary education. The reason why it is not a majority is that the minority at SV and the Workers' Party believe that the county is already per. This is an obligation today, and so we must continue to do so within the economic framework that is already in place. Another minority, the Right Party and the Advance Party, want the market to be raw, i.e. private actors entering the arena. So there's not a majority here, and then how does the Council of State want to move on? He said in a reply that he now wanted to look at the entire organisation of training for adults in the county municipality and look at how it could become different from today, for adults actually take education other than that given in the county councils, because it is not satisfactory. Will the Council of State then come back with this area as a separate matter in Stortinget when he has now read both the vote and the debate thoroughly? In any case, we must know whether it is the solution to the Right and the Advance Party that is the matter of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1257	There were three articles that made me have to take the word once more. First of all, it was Trond Giske who said he thought it was very sad that the Right is trying to turn the debate on this great reform into a debate on tax-free provisions. And that's one way to think about it. From the Right side, it's quite clear that we want the public to take a large part of the resource effort needed in this area, but we don't have to do it so that this should be public or private. In the same way that the public is to take part, we need to stimulate the individual and the individual enterprise to be self-employed in order to receive further and further training tailored to the future. Nor should we do it the way I think of the representative, Giske, that here we should choose between vision and action. We're going to split the visions completely in the right hand side, but there's a lot of practical things to do here, too. Those we've proposed in this area, and we don't have to ignore what I've been up to in the past, that a lot of different actors and a lot of different measures are needed here. The representative Djupedal was in on this with Right's role as brake block. Now I am among those who have not always seen the brake block as the least important part of a mechanism. When the Right in this context tries to be a brake pad in some areas, it does not apply to the reform and what we are going to get out of it – that it will be possible for everyone to assess their competence to move on in the system – but we have tried to be a brake block when it comes to creating unrealistic expectations that will cause very many to be disappointed. Because as we from the Right's side have been in the past, there's a lot of nice words here, but for a good part of what's leading, it's not shown solutions. We are supposed to be so sober in this case too that we see that there are limitations here, and that we have a long way to go before we get this in port. So Grete Knudsen says that the market is the Right and the Progress Party's solution, that we should almost sell out the training in further education. Of course, this is not our solution, but, as far as I am concerned, there has been quite a deal in the Committee that further education in some areas can offer important courses, for which payment can also be made in some contexts. There's the Right's point in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1268	Next speaker is State Council Lilletun, then Inge Wohnning. The President recalls what he said earlier, that the possibility of implementing today's map at the morning meeting may be present, but the President is beginning to be in doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1273	At least I'll try not to prolong the debate, but just answer the representative Knudsen that I tried to give some clarifications about how I had intended to legislate the county council duty. I will present this in connection with the evaluation of reform 94, which comes this spring. Then you'll see how I'm going to formulate this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1278	I will also help not to extend the meeting. There have been some 17 May speeches during this debate, and the one who took the prize was probably the representative Giske, who wanted it to be the biggest education reform in Norway's history. This may indicate that real competence in history must be relatively moderate. I think that both the confirmation regulation of 1736 and the general school law of the last century contributed more dramatically to transforming the Norwegian society than we are adopting today. But at the end of this debate, I think we can agree that that is what the future is going to show, and the experience the users of this reform are going to reap, which determines how significant it is going to be. What is desirable, of course, is that the concrete measures taken today by the Storting will really give individual users, both those inside the labour market and those currently not in the labour market, a real experience of opening new doors, and that it is possible to point out where those doors are, not through difficult and fine statements with relatively unclear content, but by offering concrete ways of achieving both a better and more meaningful life and a competence demanded in the labour market. It's going to be the test of whether what we're doing in Stortinget today really matters to Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1287	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The President will propose that we proceed with case No. 3 on today's map, but also acknowledges that it means that the Storting must in that case agree that the meeting is extended beyond the regulatory time, and the President will come back to this when it is 3 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1305	The nominations and nominations of bishops have been the source of repeated disputes in our century, from the appointment of Wexelsen to Nidaros in 1905 to the appointment of Gunnar Stålsett to Oslo in 1998. In an article in Church and Culture, Dag Thorkildsen writes in his summary that a review of bishops' elections in our century quickly becomes a review of the darkest aspects of Norwegian church life. Personality, substitutive arguments, tactical voting and intellectual dishonesty are constantly emerging, and the dividing lines do not necessarily have to go between liberal and conservative candidates and wings. Part of the grunt is due to the rules of nomination and the rules of vote. So that's Thorkildsen's conclusion. In 1933, the Law of the Bishops' Council came, where one of the councils' most important tasks was to be a nomination body. The Council of Bishops was to nominate at least three and up to five persons and each member of the Council could require a person listed in the proposal. The nomination meeting was to be held for closed doors, and the consultation was secret. The nominated candidates were to be listed in alphabetical order without mentioning the number of votes. The purpose was that, in addition to the nomination itself, no leads should be placed on the further process. This was an attempt to bring the unworthy personality to life. According to Thorkildsen's article, there were rather quick conscious leaks from the advice of the press in order to influence the further process. The Lutheran Church magazine was concerned that there had to be enough time between nomination and vote to guide those who would vote. Today, it is Our Country who has taken on the role of guide to the councils of churches and bishops. The fact that each member of the Bishops' Council could nominate a candidate led to a certain spread in the spectrum of candidates. That was therefore scepticism of this system by the conservatives. It reduced the ability to influence the nomination process and could lead to surprises. And so it did when the Tunsberg Council of Bishops nominated Professor Jacob Jervell in 1978. It led to strong agitation against his candidacy and against his person. The personality may have caused Jervell to withdraw his candidacy at the last moment when the government wanted to appoint him to Tunsberg. From a number of quarters, it was immediately required that the rules for the nomination of the Council of Bishops should be changed to a majority nomination. Regrettably, this requirement was met by amendments to the 1984 Act. Today this continues to apply, and the rules are still slightly changed compared to those of 1933. There are still closed meetings and secrets of nominations. The new thing is that the Stortinget has left responsibility for this area to the government. So the Council of Bishops is going to set up the name of up to five people they think fit, and that's the only requirement. One might wonder what it means to be fit. There are no established requirements for qualifications and criteria, except for requirements of theological examination and the ordination of performance. When the names are sent out to the persons entitled to vote, there is no description or assessment of the nominees. Those who are going to vote lack a basis for that, except that someone may have heard something from someone. In many cases, candidates may also not be well-known to the nomination committee. Sometimes we hear a little bit about what was the basis of the nomination. A fresh example is the Agder Council of Bishops, where the head of the council said to the press that they did not take the chance to nominate a female candidate for fear of being appointed. They also set an age limit of 60 to avoid a very current and popular candidate, the judge of Kristiansand. But they had no worries about nominating someone who was 59 1⁄2 years old. According to the press, they wanted a conservative bishop. Therefore, the age limit was set at 60 years. But these are the people who have the right to vote on. It is not a rigid selection of seven members who will make such decisions on behalf of those who will vote. Because there are no criteria, there are many examples of unworthy elections – both in the media and in other ways. This was made clear by the choice of a new bishop in Oslo. There are many within the Church's own ranks who see the weaknesses of today's nomination system, and it is most mature for revision. I am pleased that the council has also expressed the need for changes. The first to be done is to establish criteria for the qualifications required by the post. I think, among other things, A bishop must be a good sorcerer. He's primarily the clergy's social worker and supervisor. This is a point that seems to fail many places today. It seems that the Church is not able to deal with personnel problems. ‘More bishops show very little care for their priests. They have to thank themselves for the fact that many pastors are long-term sick.’ This pronounced the chief protection officer for all the priests and bishops of the Norwegian Church to the Evening Post last week. According to him, the care and interest of the superiors are almost absent. A bishop’s candidate must also have training in administration or by other means have demonstrated the ability to administer. A bishop is an administrative director of a large and branched administration. These are only examples of some qualifications that should be required. 30 years ago, Professor Jacob Jervell sent a proposal to Bishop Bondevik at the time that today's system must be replaced by the appearance of the post of bishop and that clear criteria and qualifications must be developed. As far as I know, he has still not received an answer to this enquiry. I agree with Professor Jacob Jervell that today's order must be replaced by the fact that the post of bishop is published in the usual way as is done for other higher positions, and for other positions in general. I believe that in this way we can assure competent bishops to the offices, and there is no doubt that there will be enough applicants. It is also important to make clear requirements on the qualifications of a candidate for the bishop’s office. In addition, it is necessary to appoint an expert evaluation committee to examine the applications and to evaluate applicants for them at each time of the addition. Once the evaluation committee has carried out an evaluation and ranking of the applicants, the Councils of the Bishops should vote on the candidates. The appointment takes place in the government, which selects one of the top three ranked. The Ministry may hold a public notice, criteria and evaluation committee, or the Council of Churches or the Church itself. The point is that it has to be done under orderly, reassuring conditions. History shows that there must be openness about the process towards the appointment of bishops, openness and clear requirements for qualifications, so that our future church history should at least not be ashamed of degrading conflicts around the nomination and appointment of bishops.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1348	Does Anneliese Dørum now wish to address his proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1351	Thank you, President! I would like to mention proposal No. 1 on behalf of the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1356	Anneliese Dørum has thus taken up the proposal she mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1359	The representative Dørum refers to the procedural elements that apply to nomination for the appointment of a bishop. This was previously regulated by the church law, but since such rules of procedure were not passed on in the 1996 church law, rules on this were laid down by kgl. Res. of 6 June 1997. The case was then forbidden by an extensive hearing, and then discussed in the Bispe meeting and the church meeting. Many hearing authorities problemed the basic regulations of the nomination system, so that they would change or restrict the King's right of appointment. But under the rule that Section 21 of the Constitution should not be amended, the legislation we now have is essentially in accordance with the large majority of hearing authorities. In comparison with previous legislation, the 1997 rules indicated that a provision was made to ‘aim at both women and men being nominees’. In addition, the catekets and deacons were given the right to voice. In order to provide a better basis for those to vote, the Council of Bishops was required to draw up an overview of the central biographical data on candidates, and the Council of Bishops was also required to give the candidates concerned the opportunity to comment on their wishes to be nominated. I think my predecessors in the Council have left behind a code that I could well live with, but at the same time I see that it is a pity to consider changes that give the nomination process more legitimacy. However, I would like to remind you that the procedures we have in the field of episcopal studies mean that we are more open here and facilitate wider participation than in any other state education. The system that the Bishops' Council nominates bishops' candidates goes all the way back to the first establishment of the Episcopal Council that elected ecclesiastical bodies by the Bishops' Council Act of 1933. The aim was to ensure democratically elected representatives of the lay people in the church more influence than they had received through random campaigns through church press groups and media postings. Delimiting the Bishops' Council's influence by the nomination of bishops' candidates as long as the right of appointment rests entirely with the King will not be seen as anything but a step backwards for the church reforms that have aimed at increasing church self-government and which have been widely debated. One of the major problems of the Bispenominations in recent years has been that many qualified candidates have opposed nominations. Well, as I know, that's true, among other things. several women whom the Borg Council of Bishops desired to nominate. I'm not sure if more public opinion in terms of more debate and election campaigns for the benefit of media candidates and other contexts will make it easier to get qualified candidates to make themselves available. There is such a great deal of pressure to be a bishop's candidate that there are probably many who now accept nominations, but who would not have consulted if one had switched to an arrangement with ordinary publication of the vacant posts. The procedures of episcopal studies in the other Nordic churches are similar at some points, but they also differ from our systems. It's got a lot of stuff. the context in which church arrangements differ. In Denmark, for example: no church bodies in the diocese or at the central level, and therefore no body that can nominate bishop candidates. On the other hand, the Minister of the Church is legally required to appoint the candidate who has received the most votes in the election. In Sweden, the government is obliged to appoint one of the three who have received the most voices, but here, as it is known, there will be major changes in the new relations between the church and the state that have been established since 1 January 2000 and among others. means that the government will no longer appoint bishops. None of the Nordic people's churches have a system of regular publication and application for free bishops, and I can't see that it now is the basis for us to go to such a dramatic break with the long tradition we've had in this area. In the event of a change in the procedures we have today, one of the most important things will be to facilitate the nomination of several women. As I mentioned, the 1997 legislation included a statement that ‘it should be sought to nominate both women and men’. I'd like to consider changing the rules, calling for candidates to be nominated by both sexes. I also think there might be reason to consider whether each individual member of the Bishops' Council should be able to nominate his candidate, so that minority proposals do not risk being voted on by the Bishops' Council and therefore will not be considered by those who will vote. This could lead to a broader nomination. Furthermore, in the public debate on this matter, questions have been raised about the bishop to be removed, should be as involved in the nomination and nomination process as is the case at present, when both candidates participated in the nomination as a member of the Bishops' Council and express themselves on the basis of the result of the vote. This is also a question that I thought there might be reason to discuss. I want to send out the suggestions I have mentioned here on behalf of the church authorities. I would also like to send the minutes of this debate. In the light of the response I received, I would like to consider changing the legislation in accordance with what I have said and, if necessary, other things that come in.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1388	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is positive that he is prepared to make certain changes to this process, although I should have wanted far greater changes. When he says that it's not that easy to get access to candidates for Bispenominations, it might not be so strange in the light of history, when you know how the candidates can be exposed to the heat and discomforts of which our story is full. I think it is positive that more women will now be included, and that the rules will be changed so that women are also nominated. All the changes are in the right direction, and the fact that we are now going back to the law of 1933, after which each member of the Council will be able to promote his candidate is also positive. It may also be true that the outgoing bishop is not in the nomination, but this meets very close to important things such as: openness of the process. The fact that the meetings are closed, that the consultation is secret, that you should not justify why you nominate candidates, and that there are no qualification criteria, make the whole process immature, closed, and allow a few people of power to get through their will. I understand that the proposal that the posts should be published, which is 30 years old, is not yet mature for execution, at least not with the current government, but if you do not publish the vacancy, you should at least ensure that the nomination meeting is open, with a detailed record of the advice and the reasons for the nomination in each case. Proposals must be submitted to candidates from the Council of Ministers, priests and other governmental and municipal bodies within the Diocese, so that all those in the Church who have elected representatives to the Council of Ministers may participate in the nomination process. Then there should also be an expert add-on board that judges the nominees, so that they can take place in proper forms. Whether we keep the process as it is now or not, common criteria for what is required of a bishop must be developed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1408	The working party is too broad, open and tolerant a people's church. Furthermore, in our opinion, people should and should know that the relationship with the Church should be both democratic and tolerant. This is also referred to by the settings and suggestions provided by the Church’s officials. It is hoped that one has recently seen settings in which the Church becomes a preservative and less tolerant. This is not least what we have seen in connection with the settings of new bishops in Bispeembeta. What now seemed to be reaching its own settings in the Church seems to be a long, long step back. And most sadly, I thought it was in my own and also the Council of State's episcopal example, simply Agder Bispedal, where they saw it as a decisive task to avoid that it would bring women to the setting. Well, here we are talking about officials and women, maybe, who have views like corks are society or Church their holds, I'm going to believe. The working party wants to keep a secret. We want to change the procedures, so that the basics of the bishop's studies can be found in the light. We believe that much of the horror and speculation surrounding the nominations could be avoided when those who set up have to stand up with their positions. And I then argued that the Government would follow this up in line with its otherwise pronounced openness policy. I have also noticed that the Council of State is positively willing to change the procedures a bit on the road, at least in relation to the equality question. But I regret to say that the Council of State will still hold on to a so-called secret process, a closed process. There should be no reason just for these nomination processes to be closed when another person in society feels that processes are becoming more and more open.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1421	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately at hand. The President will propose that the negotiations be continued until the current map has been completed. – It is considered biphasic.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1424	It's obvious when you hear the different statements here, that some of them are of the opinion that there is a process in the case of bishops' appointments, which is extremely closed, while the council has actually reminded us that the procedures are more open than in the case of other official appointments, and I think it's worth noting. It is also clear that there are examples of both the concern of the representative Dørum, the appointment of the Agder Bishop, and what the Council of State refers to, namely the problem facing the Bishops' Council in Borg. Today’s debate therefore seems to focus a lot on gender equality — several female bishops. But here we're going to keep our tongue straight in your mouth. A public call for vacancies and thus a public diagnosis of the individual candidate’s internal values and characteristics would hardly attract more women into this arena. How much transparency and transparency should the public in general and particularly interested people have in an employment process? The qualification requirement is theological examination, but real competence, which we have referred to earlier today in a wide range of contexts, seems to the Progress Party to count fairly much in this very context. The party of progress is of the opinion that employment or appointment within the Church is not special in relation to the employment of private enterprises, for example. managing directors. These are not covered by much publicity. A bishop might be likened to an executive director. He or she will administer the Church in his or her territory and provide overall leadership for the work in the same area. In addition, the bishop, together with his counterparts, shall draw up the major overall objective of the Church in Norway. If you have this clear, it will be difficult to force equals who are not exactly the same into this system, and we will have a church with some large and profound divisions. I would not believe anyone in the assembly wanted that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1433	Does the representative wish to address the proposal that has been distributed to the representatives?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1437	She wants that, quite explicitly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1442	The proposal is thus taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1445	I feel that the interpellant has two relationships that she wants to focus on, as a background, first that female candidates don't seem to reach, and second that today's nomination scheme provides for equal candidates. I share the impatience of the representative of Dørum with regard to the appointment of female priests and, to some extent, bishops. But as the Council of State has also said in its answer, there are things that indicate that it is difficult to find willing candidates, and I think we should take that inward. I think it's just a matter of time before we get good and willing candidates, because if you look at the proportion of women among ordained priests, it's increased from 5 pst. about 1970 to 40 p.m. of 1996. In addition, the Church meeting has adopted guidelines to increase equality in the Church. To the extent that there is disagreement in this room about getting women into all positions in the Church, including the bishops, it is my clear opinion that the disagreement is more about how and not about. But here it is well that I want to emphasize the influence that the Church itself has in this process, and that it has a decisive word in this regard. For the sake of substance and cleanliness of employment, there are important prerequisites for different sex and theological groupings to have the respect they deserve, and to live side by side in the Church. The Church itself still has a quite new challenge to deal with, namely also to realize what the Church meeting has defined as equal gender distribution in all contexts of the Church. We have little knowledge of how female priests have dealt with the resistance, and how they deal with further resistance. But the answer is probably in their own call and in the changed attitude of the environment from no to yes to female priests as women have increased in numbers. This aspect, I believe, will continue to be in the back of our minds when we want to work to get more women into even higher positions in the Church, as pros and bishops. I also think it is important that we look at the bishop's process, that it should be an expression of trust and not of self-confidence. Therefore, I am pleased that the Council of State rejects the appointment of the bishop's office. I actually believe, after talking to a lot of people, including in the Church, that such a competition for the bishop's office will come to love bishops with great confidence, but not necessarily with great confidence. I think that's a point we're going to have with us. Finally, I want to have a great deal of emphasis on theological qualifications and the leadership characteristics of the candidates. I think this will benefit all candidates. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State wants to send the guidelines to the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1458	What can be governed by legislation and procedural rules is limited, and it is clear that items of an unpleasant nature resulting from public discussions about persons will under no circumstances be able to prevent them through legislation. Provided you still wish to have an element of public vote, it will follow the load anyway. What is the real problem with today’s procedure – and there I agree with the Council of State – is the nomination link. It is characteristic that the entire debate in the Church in connection with the recent bishop's appointments has just been linked to the nomination. This makes it probable that the Council of State will be able to address most of the weaknesses of the current system if he does something about the rules of the nomination. I think it's right that the Council of State says that there might be reason to look at both the Danish Church and the Swedish Church. In both places a sample selection system has been used, i.e. that there is an open choice first, where everyone can make the proposals they want for candidates. The sample selection round then shows which of these candidates have a broad dissension, and then a final choice is arranged between those with a broad dissatisfaction. It would cancel what is the weakness of today's nomination scheme, namely that the bishops' councils seem to perceive their role as nominating body in a distorted way. A nomination body does not have the task of narrowing down the voting rights, as the Bispedium Council in Agder has in fact publicly stated that it provided the basis for its nomination. It's not a nomination body's task, neither in the Church nor anywhere else. I also think it is right, as the Council of State points out, that there is an anomaly in today's church rules that the one leaving an office has a decisive influence on the choice of his successor. Such systems we don't have anywhere else in society. It is not natural for an outgoing bishop to participate in the nomination. It is also not natural that he should give the setting at last. And after today's rules, he can even get into the picture a third time, if he was to be the bishops' representative in the Council of Churches. This means that one and the same person can influence the process in three different characteristics. I am pleased with the Council's reply and hope that the answer will result in the proposal by Anneliese Dørum being converted into a transmission proposal. It is the case that the regulation on the selection of bishops is given in accordance with the existing church law, and it is the responsibility of the Government to ensure that the regulation is the way the legislator wants it to be. I perceive the answers of the Council of State so that he wants to follow the views expressed in the Storting, and that he wants to carry out a regular hearing in the church organs and then revise the regulation so that it gets better.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1469	Today’s interpellant takes into account the special procedures followed in the process of nominating candidates for bishops’ offices. In principle, it may seem easy to change the procedure and to equate these positions with those of others in the public sector. It is not as simple as that, as the Norwegian Church has a great right of self-determination, kfr. new church law which has recently entered into force and which involves stronger delegation to the churches and the Church's organs. That being said, the Centre Party will not allow this delegation to lead to less transparency and transparency in the processes. This is a very important principle. Openness is the first commandment to create trust. The central party believes it is healthy to have a debate on this topic, but will stress that the best thing would be if this could take place both in the public space and within the Church itself. It's unfortunate if hard fronts are created. The Church has a great responsibility as a provisional organisation in this field. If that's right what's referred to in the Friend of the Fatherland, there's absolutely reason to shout a warning, as Anneliese Dørum does in her interpellation. I distance myself from a practice where members of the Bishop's Council would deliberately not ask women candidates in danger of the government appointing a female bishop. This is especially eye-catching. In other areas of society, this is called discrimination. Now I respect that the Church is a religious community, but when the Church meeting, which is an important body in this religious community, aims to work for a better gender balance in church positions, the term "discrimination" may be tempting to use on this case as well. In the debate on new church law, I said that when the Church is given a much more freer and independent position in relation to the State, the Church must also work to a greater extent on gender equality issues in its own organs. This was a review theme in the debate, and the head of the Central Party, Anne Enger Lahnstein, said this: «We are not content with the position the woman has in the Church and the proportion of women we have in church positions and management. There is no correlation between the intentions on equality and the results shown in the statistics. This is a challenge that the Church has to take far more seriously than is the case today." The Church does not tolerate many such examples to which the interpellation refers. Then the pressure to separate church and state will increase, which the Center Party is not interested in happening. The Center Party will have an open and inclusive people's church based on the Christian view of humanity, where all people have equal rights and equality. The central party will not prevent a debate on new procedures for the appointment of bishops. First of all, we want a more open nomination. If not, other measures should be considered. But after hearing the Council of State answer the interpellant, I have confidence that we will find good guidelines in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1491	For the Left, the goal of the Norwegian Church being an open and inclusive people's church will always be guiding when we, as politicians, discuss the Church's organs and inner life. One condition for achieving this goal is that the Church's organs and processes in the Church are democratic and open. The representative Dørum raises an important debate when she asks questions about the process of the bishop denominations, in particular regarding the transparency and need for public access to the process and the position of women in the Church. On the other hand, I am more in doubt if she is giving the right answer to the challenges by proposing the announcement of the bishop's position. Governments point out that the Bishops' nomination is more open and inclusive than other appointments, which I would like to stress is important and correct. Just the bishop has such an important role as spiritual guidance, but also as an actor in society that it is right that the appointments receive public attention. In the view of the Left, it is problematic that the Church's elected bodies in many ways do not reflect the multiplicity of members of the Norwegian Church. But in public debates about church appointments, there is often an involvement with the usually tame majority, which we seem important to maintain the Church as a joint owner. I agree with what Tingelstad says about the lack of equality in the Church and the position of women in the Church's leading positions. It is therefore positive that the Council of State emphasises the need to strengthen the role of women in the Church and opens up the requirement for candidates to be nominated by both sexes. This, together with the proposal that the members of the Council of Bishops should have the opportunity to nominate their candidate, may have the effect of increasing the width of candidates, which is a goal for the Left. At the same time, the Left will point out the need for the process of nomination to become more transparent, and therefore encourages the Council of State to also consider how to increase public transparency in the process when it will now review the legislation on the nomination of bishops.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1506	Interpellant Dørum asks at the end of the interpellation if the Council of State will change the practice so that the process becomes bright. But I assume that the intention is to ask for a new practice in which the bishop's office is released with the possibility for persons with the necessary qualifications to apply. It has also been shown by what has been said. For the process from the existence of a list of candidates and until the appointment takes place per year. Today, more extensive and open here than in the case of other positions and positions in society. This process includes those who are to have the bishop as their employer’s representative and those who are to have him as their shepherd, supervisor, teacher and social worker. I think the interpellant well described the qualifications that should be required of a bishop's candidate. What may have been omitted – but I may have ignored the fact that it was said – was in that case about obligations in relation to the Church's teachings and confession. Clergymen as well as playwrights get to join in and make their views known through positions and statements. The same is true of the theological expertise of our academic institutions, and in addition, the prioritisation of the Church Council and the well-founded position of the bishop. There is a broad consensus in the Norwegian Church that this process is comprehensive enough. It shall take account of the various and necessary considerations which give the nominating authority sufficient basis for the appointment as a background to the ecclesiastical vote. For it must be stressed that the Norwegian Church is a religious community and not a state or a being under public control. Therefore, it is important to respect the internal autonomy of the religious community. At the same time, it is a state church as an arrangement around the church's governance structure. In this way, the state designation body also has a separate responsibility to contribute to the best possible functioning of the Norwegian Church as a people's church. But that doesn't mean that the state should go ahead in questions that can be seen as interference in the Church's teachings. That's why I think the Council of State in its response to the interpellant has expressed opinions and views that take account of the issue she is asking about, while at the same time expressing the necessary respect for the Norwegian Church as a religious community. It is important to have a system that does not result in the separation of well-qualified candidates from the possibility of assessment in the context of the procedure until appointment. I am sure that the Council of State will handle this matter in the best interests of strengthening the Bispenomination as a prerequisite for subsequent proceedings until appointment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1513	It's important to discuss bishop's appointments, to distinguish between nomination and process. It's really two pieces. The first is the nomination, and then it's the process from the nomination to the appointment. With regard to the process of appointment itself, it has gradually been democratised. Several are involved in the process. If we go far back, it was probably only the bishops who participated. Gradually, different laymen have also joined this process, so that the process itself works reasonably well in many ways. Of course, we can discuss transparency, but the democratic part works pretty well. What is the main problem, as I see it – and there I agree with the representative Inge Wohnning – goes on the nomination itself. It doesn't work well enough. This is not just, as can be seen from anyone, a question of women as candidates, this is about democratization of a nomination process. I think it would be better to go on about a system of applicants. I can't believe this will help people with a big ego, which the representative Lyngstad was concerned about. It is also not new that you open the door for searching for bishop's posts. It was probably until the middle of the last century that the way to apply for the type of job was through regular call and application. It has established a number of self-appointed influences through the appointment of bishops. They have a very strong impact both on the nomination itself and, of course, on the process itself. I believe that a system where people are applying for these positions will reduce some of the influence of self-appointed bodies and people who, as I said, have a strong influence on the process, so I would probably wish that the Council of State in its further work on this matter did not reject a system of people applying for these positions. As the Council of State says in its reply, there is some improvement in a return to the old system, that it should be open so that each member of the Council of Bishops can submit proposals to a candidate, so that there should be no unanimity on the candidates to be promoted. But I think he should take another step and also open up for these bishops' positions to be readily available, and that it will be searched in the ordinary way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1524	I would first like to thank for being made aware of a typographical error in the interpellation. I'd like to fix it first. I will then be allowed to read the last sentence as it shall read: ‘What is the Council of State’s view on this, and will he consider changing the rules of the process until the appointment of a bishop so that the position is promoted in the same way as other positions in society?’ I have with pleasure noticed that there are several speakers who have pointed this out with openness about the Bispenomination. Marit Tingelstad from the Center Party said the most important thing was that there was more openness around the nomination. The same was true of the Left's representative, and also of the Left's Socialist Party, so that there is a majority in this Chamber that there should be more transparency about the nomination process, and not that today closed meetings and no justification for voting. I would just like to point out that the Council of State has made it clear that he will propose changes to the procedure, to the rules, and that in this respect he will also take account of and attach to what has been said in this debate. Then I would ask him to notice this with openness about the nomination process, which was not solved by the proposals on which the Council of State was involved. I repeat that the nomination meeting must be open with a detailed record of the deliberations and the reasons for the nomination on a case-by-case basis. Then I would just like to say – since the time runs out of farms – that I am happy with the changes that have been proposed. They're not satisfactory, but it's a step in the right direction. It'll be a better process, but it won't be good. But I think we've gone a little further, and then we get to keep up with what's going on. Before I go down from the pulpit, since the Council of State has now addressed itself to changes in the process, I would like to propose – at least on behalf of the Workers' Party – that the proposal that I have made on behalf of the Workers' Party and the SV be turned into a transmission proposal. I hope SV can agree with that. With regard to the Ursula Evje proposal, I would urge the Labour Party to vote against it. We have now had a review of this in Stortinget, and it is the Government that has been delegated the responsibility to develop guidelines for the nomination process, and now I just hope that the Government and the Council of State will follow up what has been said here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1539	The president just wants to ask if it is so to understand that the representative thought there was a typographical error in the interpellation text, and that it is not a change of opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1542	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1548	So it was a typographical error. Otherwise, the representative, through his statement, made aware of what the intention was. The President has also noted that the proposal has been turned into a transmission proposal and has understood the silent communication to the effect that the Socialist Left also accepts such a procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1553	I have listened with great interest to the debate and noted the point of view and have recorded from the speeches that have been, that there is no plurality that wants to have a system of calling. At the same time, I have noticed what the representative Dørum said, that it is a strong desire for openness. And in the context of what I said in my first post, that we wanted to send these suggestions out on the listener, we want to take a careful review of the debate here where there is openness, which has come up in a series of articles, also to be included. And I'm going to think that we need to take with us that there's a whole process, and that in most cases this process has worked well. We also have a very sure example that it hasn't. And then I hope that the change we're making will help us gain additional legitimacy in the nominations – not so that we always learn about the graduations, but that one says that it was a good process and that's why we also accept the final result. Then I shall no longer prolong the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1560	So the debate is on case No. Three o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1566	The size goes to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1575	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Rune E. Kristiansen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 4, by Rune E. Kristiansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 5, by Ursula Evje, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 6, by Arne Lyngstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left Proposals No. 7-13, by Mr Ursula Evje, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 14, by Inge Wohnung, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 15, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party That will be a reason for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1602	It concerns proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox After what the Council of State has said in today's debate, with clear, positive views on this proposal, I will, on behalf of the Workers' Party, refer to the proposal for a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1609	I would ask the Right-wing Group to vote in favour of proposal No. 12, tabled by the Progressive Party. This is, in fact, a proposal that we have previously agreed on in connection with the Training Act. The right will vote for I and III and for II and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1616	The centre lots are behind the recommendation, with the exception of IV. But by reading the position and the comment that we have, I believe we can vote in favour of the proposal, with the interpretations and comments that we have made behind it. I would therefore recommend that the centre parties vote in favour of the whole recommendation. Furthermore, I would recommend the centre parties to go against all minority proposals – with the exception of their own.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1623	That suppose the President was a straightforward clarification!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1626	I would recommend that the Group of the Progressive Party should support I and IV, but against II and III in the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1631	It concerns proposal No. 15 from SV. As is known, a sample has been reduced in the context of tariff settlement. Our proposal goes a little further, but as there is a sample in turn, we want to make proposal No. 15 to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1636	With these explanations of vote, the President shall try to solve this problem. The President proposes that we first deal with the proposals. Two and fifteen. Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal, and that means that the wording is changed accordingly. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government consider granting the right to an examination during a transitional period for course organisers involved in the continuing training reform.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It is considered biphasic. As regards proposal No: 15, from the Socialist Left Party, it has also been turned into a transmission proposal, and the wording is changed accordingly. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government, in cooperation with the social partners, seek a tripartite funding scheme as part of support for continuing education and training. [[country, employer and employee]] Such a mechanism shall be complementary to other public financial instruments.’;» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It is considered biphasic. Then to the further voting order: First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 7 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on proposal No. 14, from the Right, on top of the remaining proposals of the Party of Advancement, No. 8-13, then on proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, then over proposal No. 5 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4. from the Workers' Party and, finally, from the proposals No. 1-3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Once we have reached this point, the vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution. There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party, which reads: ‘St.meld. No 42 Case of competence, sent back to the Government for further examination of the costs of the reform.» [[1997-98]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1675	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 14 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to assess over-price depreciation schemes for investment in post-secondary education and open opportunities for individuals to create their own educational accounts with tax savings benefits.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1689	Proposals Nos. 8, 9, 10, 11 and 13, from the Advance Party, are taken up for voting. Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to make proposals on how to increase the flexibility of educational institutions in the workplace [[teachers]] Proposal No. 9 sounds: «In response to invitations to tender, the Communities may conclude agreements with private organisers to meet the need for adapted offers for adults in primary school training.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The county councils may, after the invitation to tender, conclude agreements with private organisers in order to meet the needs of adapted offers for adults in higher education.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: «Permit rights in connection with continuing training shall not be statutory but shall be entrusted to voluntary agreements between the individual enterprise and the employee.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the impact of making interest and rebates on student loans fully or partially deductible, both in terms of tax loss and the positive effects that the measure may have on the application for training.’;
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1725	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 12 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to make all forms of training in working conditions tax-free.’ The right has indicated here that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1741	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote, as soon as possible, a legislative proposal on the statutory obligation of county councils to provide organised secondary education for all adults who do not already have such training. The obligation is assumed to be financed within the economic framework of the transfers of revenue under Reform 94.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1755	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the adaptation of the Working Environment Act to make temporary employment, temporary workers and overtime use more flexible.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1769	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a management and development secretariat for continuing training outside the ministries.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1783	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 3 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit individual law proposals for adults for secondary education.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit its own study funding case in the context of the reform of continuing education and training as soon as possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1824	Here the Progress Party and the Right have made it known that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1842	Here the Progress Party has made it known that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1859	Here the Right has notified that they want to vote against. The Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have been advised to vote for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1884	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1 by Anneliese Dørum on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left 2, from Ursula Evje on behalf of the Party of Progress Mr Evje has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1896	I would like to be allowed, on behalf of the Progress Party, to refer to the proposal of the Progress Party for a transmission proposal, which will facilitate the reading here – and the Labour Party is also not voting against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-19.ana.ud702e1901	With this helpful procedure, the President has registered that both proposals have been converted into transmission proposals. Proposal No. 1 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government establish new rules for the procedure for the appointment of bishops.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government present its own case on the basis of a broad review of procedures and rules for the nomination of bishops in the Norwegian Church.’ The President proposes that the proposals be submitted to the Government without any rebuttal. – It is considered biphasic.
