ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e40	The president suggests that a seat president be elected for the Odelstingen meeting today, Tuesday, and Thursday – and see it as a commitment. The President is asking for a proposal from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e45	I suggest Jørgen Holte.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e50	Mr. Jørgen Holte has been proposed as President-in-Office. – Other suggestions are not included, and Jørgen Holte is elected by consensus as President of the sitting of today’s and Thursday’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e58	The representative Per Sandberg will present a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e61	On behalf of the representatives Per Roar Bredvold, Siv Jensen and myself, I would like to propose changes to the law on children and parents, the Children's Act. 5 and 6, so that both parents are given equal rights of association/parent responsibility for their children.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e66	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e76	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 406]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e88	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 406]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e102	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a sequence change of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e113	Child protection legislation is difficult. Yes, it's actually a minefield – and it's good that there's no need for a shooting and practice field to drive that kind of thing! But at least the Child Protection Act is a law that intervenes in private life, which puts the search light on the parent role and adult adequacy as caregivers – and it will always create conflicts. It is therefore important to update and further develop the legislation in line with the general legal perspective, new knowledge and developments in this area. Ot. pp. No 61 for 1997-98 deals with both the law on child protection services and the law on social services. The proposal proposes some amendments, but also some new provisions. The amendments are proposed in the light of the experience gained since the entry into force of the law in force on 1 January 1993. I am referring to the fact that the Child Protection Act is currently subject to a comprehensive evaluation and that the amendments that are being promoted do not affect the ongoing evaluation. The discussion of police attestations in the recruitment of staff in professions related to children has been raised on several occasions. Working with children involves a great deal of responsibility. Children and young people have little opportunity to defend themselves against abuse by adults. For this reason, it is important that people who come into close contact with children are required to have a compulsory police record. A unanimous committee has agreed to require a police record for all persons performing tasks under the Child Protection Act involving direct contact with children and young people. These include case handlers, managers, support contacts and the like. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, does not believe that the requirement for a police attestation is a guarantee to avoid future abuse of children. The majority therefore ask that a change in the criminal law be considered in order to ensure better that persons convicted of serious child abuse are not given the opportunity to work with children in any context. This majority is well aware that police records do not provide security in all contexts where adults are just in contact with children. I would ask that proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, is converted into a transmission proposal, because it is supported by the majority – all parties except the Advance Party. The Ministry wants the transfer of responsibility for the establishment of supplementary education contributions to be transferred to the grant fund, cf. § 9-2. The majority of the Committee has requested that this be done until the notification of contributions has been notified. The Ministry also wants time limits to be set for municipalities where the private party requires changes to the decision of the county council. The majority of the Committee would like it to be a three-month period and, exceptionally, to be set at six months. I expect the minority, who is here the Progress Party, to set out its priorities with regard to this law. A number of amendments have been proposed in the proposal: that the chairman of the county council may extend the time limit for decisions to take care beyond six weeks, repealing provisions requiring the chairman of the county council to be appointed for four years at a time, and that the county council secretariat be transferred from the county council members to the county councillor himself. In addition, the costs of legal review of the county council will become the municipality's own responsibility. The Committee – the majority of the Committee – supports these amendments. The legal certainty of children is important. I would therefore like to point out a change made to the Social Services Act §9-10, first paragraph, where the municipality is given the right to bring the county council decision before the courts for legal review on behalf of the children, if the county is opposed to the child protection in the municipality. The majority of the Committee emphasises that the legal certainty of each child indicates that the municipality should have access to the legal review of the decision of the county council member. The legal certainty of the child must take into account the possible burden on the private party by, for example, the individual case. draws something out in time. Of course, it will always be the case that the municipality must carefully assess the burden on both parents and children, and what it costs to pursue such a case. The majority emphasise that there is a guarantee of legal certainty for the children that the municipality has jurisdiction in legal proceedings in such cases. An important part of Ot.prp. No 61 for 1997-98 is the issue of amending the Child Protection Act with a view to preventing crime or using the Child Protection Act as a penalty for criminal offences. The majority of the Committee, all except the Party of Advancement and the Right, concludes that there is no need to amend the Law on the Protection of Children in order to help children and young people who commit criminal acts. The Child Protection Act must provide children with help and not develop into a penal code for children. The majority are concerned with the measures and knowledge needed to prevent child crime, and that research and knowledge in these areas is being nuanced and updated at all times. The majority is not alone in this conclusion. The whole of 74 out of 82 hearing bodies are opposed to amending the Law on Child Protection §4-24 and §4-26. The majority emphasise the importance of maintaining the distinction between criminal-like responses and child-protection measures. The starting point of child protection is to be an aid body for children and families and not a response body in criminal law care. That children commit criminal acts is a social problem and must be resolved from it. The majority agree that increasing criminal acts in youth environments requires the development of child protection rather than the lowering of the criminal detainee. Nor can it be accepted that, in the context of the Child Protection Act, criminal measures are being taken, which are similar to prisons. Members of the Workers' Party are concerned about the launch of targeted crime prevention measures. Children and young people at risk must be stopped before they develop a criminal runway, and it must be reacted quickly. Cooperation between child protection, non-governmental organisations, police, school and parents must be close and focused. These measures cost money, and the members of the Workers’ Party are therefore disappointed that the Government in the 1999 budget was not willing to grant funds for violence prevention measures in line with the wishes of the Workers’ Party. But it is possible to hope for a revised national budget. Finally, let me address a special point that the Advance Party promotes in the setting of the new Child Protection Act. They want to turn the Child Protection Act into a criminal law for children. And not enough, they conclude that there is a care failure in the sense of the Child Protection Act if parents with Norwegian citizenship or permanent residence in the country do not take measures to ensure that children live in Norway, Norwegian can when they start in the publicly funded school. The fact that parents commit care failure means that child protection can intervene and initiate measures, and at worst take the children from their parents. What's strange about this case is that the Progress Party in all other cases shows such gross distrust of child protection and of its officials and women that they have made a ten-point rule for people who come into the "discipline" of child protection. Alvheim's 10 points against child protection are referred to as a small beginning: 1st@item: inlistbox Shut up, everything you say will be used against you.2. Contact your lawyer immediately.3. Look up the psychologist even if you're healthy. You'll need it.4. Don't accept help, it'll be interpreted as if you don't make it yourself. It is therefore strange that the Progress Party is asking for child protection to help those families that have a different cultural background than the Norwegian one. They are worthy to receive help from a child protection party The party of progress has the deepest mistrust – not the others. Do I know a little form of cultural discrimination?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e162	The representative of Fossum partially concludes his post with an attack on the proposals and comments of the Progress Party. She also refers to a ten-point plan and, moreover, to opinions previously issued by the Progress Party, among others. by Carl I. Hagen. This has also been a matter for the media. It is clear that these opinions and this 10-point plan have, of course, been related to issues where child protection has crossed the line. And then I just want to refer to the matter that was raised in Document 2 yesterday. There are such things we point to, where child protection goes in and takes the children from their parents without fundamental rights to it. Grethe Fossum spent a lot of time on the plan against violence that they set out on in their budget. Here's a lot of suggestions that we're familiar with, that are in place and already established, and that have worked for a long time, without us seeing any results from it. It might have been interesting to hear if the Workers' Party, too, might in the long run be thinking of introducing new methods to address the violent crime we see among children and young people, especially in Oslo. Another thing is that it might have been interesting to see how far the Workers' Party had come with the 50 million. as they had in their budgetary position, in relation to the massive plan they have presented.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e171	It is now that prevention pays off, but it rarely shows up in results that can be measured using science. Because it is that prevention leads to good. But if you hadn't, you wouldn't have had any proof that you did. That is why there is an impossible question for the representative Per Sandberg here to raise in relation to preventive work. What is known about the policy of the Progress Party in this area, and what is known to be happening around the country, is that the Progress Party is very little interested in providing money for preventive child labour. When the representative Per Sandberg asks for new methods, I also think we need to use new methods. We have to go much more focused into areas where there are problems, and we have to seem much longer-term than what we've done today. I don't think 50 million. kr is sufficient for prevention in this area, but it is at least 50 million. kr more than the Progress Party could afford to grant in the budgetary situation we were in. They had more than enough to pay out NOK 2.7 billion in cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e180	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e183	The proposal proposes certain amendments to the Child Protection Act, in particular some amendments to the existing provisions, but also some new provisions. These amendments are proposed in the light of experience gained since the entry into force of the Act on 1 January 1993. The proposals for amendments relating to Sections 1-3 are not addressed today, as they have been addressed in the past. With regard to police certification requirements, the Progress Party supports this and believes it is a necessary strengthening of the safety of children and young people. However, the Progress Party wants to go a little further, by requiring police records and professional bans at all levels of the Child Protection Service, and thus wants administrative staff without direct contact with children to be included. We believe that this is right from the point of view of staff with decision-making powers, who are also the ones who make the most of the work for those who are working again in direct contact with the children. The Progress Party therefore considers it important to remove a type of person from all decision-making stages of the Child Protection Service. Under the applicable law, parents shall contribute to the birth of their children. This also applies after the child is away from home following a child protection decision. Today, the county council administers this scheme. The Progress Party considers the amendment proposal to be somewhat clearer, and supports it. The Progress Party also supports the proposal to introduce time limits for the municipalities in the field of case preparation. Based on the experience we are familiar with, it has in some cases been years since the claim was submitted to the municipality. This, of course, is completely unacceptable. With regard to the question of who is to be competent or empowered to extend the time limit for the implementation of decisions to take care in specific cases, the Party is in doubt. We're a little sceptical about putting so many powers in the hands of one person in such difficult cases, but for the sake of making the decision-making process easier and perhaps less resource-intensive, the Progress Party is in any doubt about this. The Progress Party believes that it is positive that a requirement for a plan of action is now being proposed in accordance with §4-24 and §4-26. It is important to have clear objectives to work by, to adapt plans to the individual when choosing to place a child in an institution. By having clear plans to work after, you will be able to achieve desired results faster. This will work positively both for the family concerned and for the child protection service. Of course, it is also positive that the quality assurance of child protection institutions is strengthened. However, the party to the progress disagrees with the fact that the county must have this controlling capacity, because the county then becomes both user and controller. The Party of Progress considers that the State should be the one that controls these institutions in terms of quality. In the case of judicial review of the decisions of the county councillor and the proposal aimed at opening up the municipalities in order to bring the decision of the county councillor before the courts for judicial review, the Progress Party opposes this. This will lead to a significant additional burden on the private party, which is likely to have already had a significant impact. If one wishes to maintain the county council as a judicial body, its decisions in favour of the private party should be final, so that that party can get the matter out of the world. As regards the costs of such cases, the Progress Party supports the proposal that municipalities cover their own costs. Further, as regards the four-year appointment of headmasters, I would like to point out that the Progress Party basically wants to wind up the denominators in their present form, and for that reason wants to maintain this rule. If there is a real competition with the judiciary, there are other alternatives to recruiting qualified managers. Changes in the secretariat of the county councils I see as only an adjustment of current practice. With regard to the amendments to the Children’s Act aimed at preventing crime or as part of a subsequent reaction to criminal acts, I believe that this is more topical than ever, and in fact the need for changes has become considerably greater now than when the Storting asked the Government to do so in February 1997. The proposal of the Progress Party is that a provision to protect society against serious and/or repeated and persistent crime committed by children is also included in the purpose of the Act. This will lead to a much better legal framework for child protection to take place and detention in an institution without the consent of §4-24 for active child criminals under the criminal penal code. This has proved very necessary in recent times because there have gradually become too many young people among the criminal lavalry who partially terrorise both the elderly and other young people, both in schools, in the community and in cities. These seem more and more to lack the necessary respect for the authorities, among other things. because they are not faced with clear and noticeable reactions to their own criminal activity. It might seem like they're wondering that the authorities can't do anything. Forced positioning as a rapid response to unacceptable criminal behaviour will be highly preventive and will also contribute to better opportunities for bringing children with major behavioural difficulties to a level playing field, while providing real protection for society. Such children should not initially be placed in large institutions with many coercive places, as they will be able to develop into places for training in more crime from more hard-boiled vancriminals. It is therefore necessary to establish a number of smaller, safe boarding schools based on clear disciplinary rules and a sensible pedagogical approach that can provide the young with normal schooling and work training for the working world. It is assumed that the ordinary treatment system by decision in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 1. 4 of the Act and, in particular, §4-24 are used, but this paragraph must also be understood as meaning that these refugee-safe boarding schools, which can be established as a new type of institution, are covered by the term ‘treatment or training institutions’ in the legal text. The Progress Party will also provide Section 3-1 with an addendum to establish that it must be regarded as a care failure if parents with Norwegian citizenship or permanent residence in the country do not take measures to ensure that children living in Norway for a long time have acquired the necessary Norwegian knowledge when they are going to start in the publicly funded school. I have registered the resistance of these proposals from the Progress Party. To this end it is just to say: Yes, these are serious measures, but to prevent or reverse the developments we are now seeing, the serious action needs to be taken. We cannot accept that children with a long stay in Norway meet in school without Norwegian as a language, and we cannot expect to succeed in integrating them. These children will take this further, and then it's no wonder that we experience reproductions, and that these children come together in their own environments. Unfortunately, some of today’s and tomorrow’s criminal youths are also unable to get on the right track using today’s laws. This is why the Progress Party is promoting the proposal on institutions that are safe for escape, and that it should be seen as a care failure if the children are unable to Norwegian when they start school. I will end by including the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e213	Per Sandberg has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e218	The Progress Party has proposed that care should be considered as a failure if children of immigrant parents have not learned Norwegian when they are 6 years old, i.e. when they begin school. In the discussion before the debate, we have understood that it is not about taking the children away from their parents, but that action should be taken. What measures does the Progress Party consider to be natural? Should children be taken from their parents for a short or longer time to learn Norwegian because their parents are unable to learn a language they have problems with themselves, or are you going to prevent them by driving 4-5 years of age into school? I have the impression that the Progress Party is now trying to repeat the attacks as, among other things, has happened to the tattoos, which we have now had to apologize for, or as we saw on TV yesterday. We don't have to stand in the way of an assault again, so we have to repeat this to our new countrymen on the same basis. The community has the opportunity to enter into supplementary education, inter alia: at school if someone needs help developing skills, whether they are sons or daughters of native or immigrant parents. The progress party John I. Alvheim launched a 10-point plan a few years ago that people should not accept assistance from child protection because it would be interpreted so that they could not succeed – people had to remember that when child protection is talking about relief measures, it usually means taking care or monitoring. Now the Progress Party will have more assistance and involvement from child protection in a group of parents, i.e. immigrants. Has the Progress Party changed its mind on child protection and finally put Alvheim’s thesis on child protection aside? But the option is actually worse, because here the Progress Party wants child protection to discriminate between immigrants and natives. There is discrimination on the grounds of race, and racial discrimination is not, in fact, another pure-bred racism in good Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e225	These were not new claims from the Workers' Party, and I also showed that in my reply to the representative Fossum. What has been said about Alvheim's 10-point plan and the statements that have been made in the past in relation to child protection are quite correct. Child protection itself has known that they have committed an assault and taken care of them without there being any grounds for doing so. We saw the last thing yesterday on the television in Document 2 that child protection has actually been with and condemned a woman to be mentally retarded and took the child away from her, without her being so. It is in such cases the Progress Party has always been on the track and said that we should be careful with regard to child protection. But when that is said, I have to be allowed to say the following in terms of care failure and lack of Norwegian knowledge when they meet in primary school: I have a lot of things now in relation to child protection, how much less serious things that can be called care failure, are the basis for taking care of them than what we are talking about here. But of course it is the responsibility of child protection to intervene. How they do it has to be up to child protection itself. But we only have one instance to take care of this, and that's child protection. Then I react to the representative, Mr Alstad, who opened up to say that the Progress Party has made proposals against immigrants. If the representative of Alstad wants to read and read the comments – which he obviously does not want – he will see that it says that this applies to children with Norwegian citizenship who meet in the publicly funded primary school without necessary Norwegian knowledge. So making this an immigration debate would like to try Alstad, but then it is in case he himself adds up to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e236	I could have had an interest in getting involved in this fight between the representatives of Alstad and Sandberg, but that was not why I asked for the floor. I asked for the floor to draw attention to what I think must be a manifest misunderstanding in Sandberg's contributions to the proposal of the Progress Party, because they propose here that the county council should be responsible for verifying that private and public child protection institutions operate in accordance with the law. So Sandberg claims that it is the county that operates and owns these, and that has the control authority here, and that you control yourself. That's not right according to the law. And I quote from the proposal for a decision, Section 5-8, fifth paragraph, where it says: ‘For the municipality or county municipality to provide financial support to an institution which is not in line with the plan of the county municipality or to use the offer as part of its provision of care and treatment, it must examine and monitor its operation in accordance with this law and the regulations applicable to it and that it is otherwise operated properly. ‘... And this also includes that it is the county that is responsible for controlling these institutions when they are part of the county plan and operated in accordance with the law we are now dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e252	That's exactly what the representative Lånke here points to. And we have also promoted amendments to Section 5-8, fifth paragraph, with a new last sentence that the county should be responsible for controlling private and public child protection institutions. In the proposal for a decision on the basis of which it is based, it is only private. We believe, of course, that the county should carry out the same control activities towards private and public institutions. When they run such institutions, they kind of sit on both sides of the table.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e257	It is still unclear, according to Mr Sandberg’s investigation, what is in the proposal that child protection should be automatically connected and taken over in cases where it is found that a child does not have satisfactory Norwegian knowledge at school. Most people take it for granted that children who have grown up with two Norwegian-speaking parents will under no circumstances be affected by this. It's relatively logical. It appears that six-year-olds who have grown up with two Norwegian-speaking parents should have poor Norwegian skills at school start-ups. What still remains a mystery to me, however, is how Sandberg makes it go along with what he referred to as the ten-point plan of the Progress Party – in fact, it was a play from the head of the Social Committee Alvheim – who is generally addressed to everyone in this country as a warning against getting in touch with child protection at all, and as an expression of a fundamental mistrust of the child protection capacity at all. And then it appears as a rather dramatic form of discrimination that you want to blink out a small group of children that you say is worthy of child protection, while all the other parents and children should stay miles away from child protection. It is, of course, much better to bet on positive measures to help children in this situation, so that they are able to use Norwegian skills before school start rather than bet on criminal-like measures when it is still too late to solve the problem. Let me also add a final question. [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e270	The President will ask for a success within the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e273	I had also not expected a salary to move from 1993 to 1999. The 10-point plan presented by Alvheim in 1993 came at a time when child protection dramatically lowered the threshold for taking care of children, and where we saw that child protection repeatedly intervened and took care of them. Then we were on the track, and this was pointed out several times, including. in this 10-point plan and by Carl I. Hagen at that time. We have to agree that this threshold has raised child protection considerably. Now we no longer have that kind of care takeover, even though yesterday – as I have pointed out twice earlier today – in document 2, on TV, we saw a grotesque example of exactly what we pointed out in 1992, 1993 and 1994. That's the kind of thing the Progress Party is taking completely away from. And how can you know when you're going to intervene with care failure when your children are 6 years old, if you haven't intervened before? The decisions taken in relation to child protection must be based on their assessment and competence in this area. What we're trying to point out, and what's irresponsible, is that we find that six-year-olds come into primary school without knowing a word of Norwegian. If wages do not consider it to be very unfortunate, and if wages do not see that there are disproportionate problems in the environments in Norway in the long term, then I cannot understand it other than that wages have not interfered with the realistic conditions in the street environment in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e278	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e281	The Christian People's Party notes with satisfaction that there is a broad political consensus in the Storting to make the changes the Government has proposed in the law on child protection services and the law on social services. We are aware that the Child Protection Act is currently subject to a comprehensive evaluation. The Committee will thus also be able to address the issue of the Child Protection Act more closely at a later stage, after the Ministry has carried out its review. However, it is positive that the Ministry has intervened in some key areas in which it was important to change. In the work on this matter, the most attention has been paid to the proposal to require police certification from certain groups of employees and persons entrusted with child protection. However, this proposal naturally incorporates the range of measures aimed at strengthening the work against sexual abuse against children, a work that has been neglected for many years because we have not known enough, or perhaps not ventured enough, to do anything about it. The Kinderhagen Act was laid down in 1995 that the person to work in kindergarten must provide a satisfactory police record. Persons convicted of sexual assault against children are excluded from working in kindergarten. The exclusion applies throughout life. During the examination of the new training law last spring, the Government's proposal that the person to be employed in primary school, including the presentation of a police certificate, was adopted. We are aware that the Government has promoted a plan of action against the sexual exploitation of children. Cooperation, prevention, protection and assistance are key areas of the action plan. Yes, it would almost be striking whether the employees of child protection and the contractors should be exempted from a provision on police attestation when other professional groups having close contact with children are subject to such a provision. We also note with satisfaction that the Government has a comprehensive and offensive approach to this complex problem area. Sexual abuse against children is a serious problem, affecting those who can at least protect themselves from injustice. We have to do what we can to stop more child lives being destroyed. The Committee also endorses the extension of the use of action plans. In the current law, it is known that it requires a plan of measures to be drawn up in the context of assistance measures within each family. It has been shown that the action plan is a good tool for following up on the individual child and his/her family. The plan shall contain a description and analysis of the current situation of the child and the family and of a future desired situation. The measures taken to achieve the objectives should be clarified. It is worth noting that the action plan is as much a process as a product. This involves actively involving the child and parents at all stages of the work on action plans. These good traditions with action plans could be used in the work further, when young people are given institutional position according to § §4-24 or 4-26. In view of the heated debate we have had, and still have, about immediate measures in the area of child protection to prevent increased violence, it is worth noting that planning and implementing measures take time. These measures will also have to work over time before impact assessment is appropriate. It is therefore important, when talking about measures in the field of child protection, to take the time aspect into account in order to avoid the notion that the more actions taken, the better. Danish researcher Per Schultz Jørgensen pointed in 1996If. theme booklet No 2 1997 from NOVA on two different lines in this part of child protection. One he calls ‘recreational policy’ and the other ‘cultural policy’. Leisure policy is top-notch, it organises, organises and develops standard solutions in the form of offers. It rests on a high degree of professionalism and a hierarchical organization. New measures are still being implemented, often detached from each other. On the other hand, cultural policy aims at a 'bottom-up access' that puts the user's own active relationship to the reality at the centre. The basic idea is that individual human beings themselves should carry out the process and must be in its hands, everything else becomes external and at best a form of dispersal. The Christian People's Party believes that there is no doubt that it must be committed to what for us, a little strange perhaps, is described as a cultural policy in this area. Above many measures, a few should be chosen that we believe can have a more profound effect. We believe that the process-oriented way of working as represented by the action plans is such a good cultural policy that can be transferred to new areas of child protection. The amendment we are examining now facilitates this. The Christian People's Party shares the Government's view that there should be no changes to the Child Protection Act in view of measures for children and young people who commit criminal acts. The proposal for a new coercive detention centre in the Child Protection Act to provide access to coercive interventions against debilitating children in order to protect society has been repeatedly promoted. Finally, I would just like to address the proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted together with the Central Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e307	Ola T. Loans have drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e310	Today, when we deal with changes in the law on child protection services and the law on social services, it is initially easy to conclude that there is a broad consensus on most of the proposed legislative changes. We are also aware that the Child Protection Act is currently subject to a comprehensive evaluation. I would therefore like to highlight in this article first of all the aspects of the law which the Right would have preferred to see changed. First, I would like to make a brief comment on the concern of the representative Sandberg about the lack of Norwegian knowledge. Right-wing share this concern, and we have promoted a Document No. Eight proposals, now under consideration by the Committee, focusing on voluntary provision of Norwegian training and hoping to support that proposal when it comes to consideration. However, it is important to highlight the positive changes proposed in the Child Protection Act. Right is well pleased with the new provisions on police attestations for employees. Working with children and young people brings great responsibility. Children have little opportunity to defend themselves against adult abuse. This is why we support the demand that those coming into contact with children be required to have a mandatory police record. The clear majority of the Committee has concluded that the law on this point must be strengthened in relation to the department to which it refers. Any person performing child-restraint tasks under the law that involve direct contact with children and young people must provide a police record. This will also include case handlers, managers and others with administrative tasks coming into contact with children. It will now be the Ministry's job to establish regulations with the necessary clarifications to clarify who is to be covered by the police record. Of course, it should not be allowed to hire persons who are unable to provide a satisfactory police certificate. It is also necessary to draw up robust procedures for the submission of police attestations, both at the time of employment and not least in relation to the tasks to be carried out for the protection of children. This must be the responsibility of institutional owners and child protection services when they are employing. This, of course, is no guarantee of future child abuse, and it is important that proposals for changes to the criminal law are made quickly to ensure that persons convicted of serious child abuse are not given the opportunity to work with children in any context. The right considers that the consideration of the children, and we are talking about children who are already in a difficult situation, must be crucial in order to apply strict rules on child protection employment. In the case of final decisions on the placement of children who have shown serious behavioural problems in the event of serious or repeated crime, persistent misuse of drugs or otherwise, see § § 24-26, Right agrees that a draft action plan should be adopted. The right considers that such a plan must be based on the recommendations of multidisciplinary expertise. The final action plan should be submitted for information, as this will underline the responsibilities of the county council and will provide greater certainty that the premises for the decision will be followed up in practice. We believe that in the event of behavioural disturbances of such a serious nature as to trigger decisions under §4-24, the overall situation of the child should always be assessed by a multidisciplinary team to ensure that the underlying causes of behavioural abnormalities are fully elucidated. Such a team should have different expertise and their assessments should be based on the action plan. The county must be responsible for the availability of expertise in the multidisciplinary investigation of children. Right will indicate that children who commit serious or repeated crime are commonly known for a long time by child protection before §4-24 applies. This indicates that local child protection does not have the power to capture the child’s needs and to deploy adequate assistance in time. Therefore, we believe that the quality of an action plan for these children must be ensured by providing external expertise to assist local child protection in the investigation and preparation of the action plan. The county council is responsible for setting up and running child protection institutions in the counties. But it is important to stress that the counties can also fit private institutions into their plans. They shall be subject to the same professional requirements and subject to the same requirements for checks as their own institutions. We cannot support SV's requirement for prior approval of private institutions, as we believe that this will put an end to too much of the exciting development work and much of the innovation that private institutions provide. However, it is important to stress that professional content and competence requirements must be checked against the checks carried out. With regard to the issue of amending the Child Protection Act with a view to preventing crime or as part of a subsequent reaction to criminal acts, the Right will express disappointment that the Ministry does not express any willingness to make changes to the laws in view of measures against children and young people committing criminal acts. Serious and repeated crime committed by children under the criminal valvaldeler has been, and is still, a major social problem for many years. It is particularly worrying that crime in this age category appears to increase in scope, while crime is becoming more violent than in the past. While the best interests of the child must be the dominant ones for the instruments of child protection, the Right believes that it is in the best interests of the child that the care of the society in which the child lives should also be taken into account. It was by the majority of the Storting in the Inner. O. No 45 for 1996-97 stated that: ‘The child of the criminal detainee who commits criminal acts must have a rapid response to the fact that this cannot be accepted. [[15 years]] ‘... We have noticed that the Stortinget in the examination of Document No. 8:11 for 1996-97, promoted by the Right-wing Representatives Kjellaug Nakkim and Anders C. Shaastad, asked the Government to assess to what extent it is necessary to amend or clarify the Child Protection Act so that the child protection enforcement authority can also be used as part of the prevention of crime or as part of a subsequent reaction to criminal acts. The majority of the population at the time showed that: ‘there have been questions as to whether the law which the Child Welfare Service is working to provide the necessary opportunity to take immediate action against these children. The majority of my Government should assess the law, and see if there is a need for changes in laws that can make it easier for the child protection service to take action. ’ The right considers that there is a need for complementary provisions of the Child Protection Act, both to ensure the high quality of the services to be provided by child protection and to safeguard society against criminal and violent children. It is important that the response of society to criminal acts is as predictable as possible, regardless of where the child lives in the country. I refer to the Ministry's assessment of the measures taken so far by child protection: ‘It has been found that some placements under § 4-24 and 4-26 of the Children’s Protection Act are taking place without the overall needs of young people being adequately assessed in advance and without adequately facilitating the planning of the various needs that the child may have. This may apply in relation to different treatment needs and interventions, school/work needs, biological family contact, etc. Furthermore, many of these sites have not been properly followed up in view of the regular evaluation of whether the measures deliver the desired results. ‘... In the opinion of the Right, the Ministry’s own assessment of the practical functioning of the Child Protection Act shows that there is a need for legislative changes. The change must be aimed at strengthening the legal certainty of the child when decisions are taken in accordance with Sections 4 to 24 and 4 to 26 and must, at the same time, take sufficient account of society’s need for protection against crime. In this context, I refer to the proposals made by Erna Solberg on behalf of the Right, and adopted the transmitted Government during the interpellation debate on 14 January 1999. The proposal was worded as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government establish a firmer system of follow-up and reaction to children under the criminal detainee who commits serious offences so that follow-up does not become arbitrarily dependent on the priorities of each child protection service. ‘... The right agrees that the Child Protection Act cannot or must not act as a criminal law. A reduction in the criminal lavalry from 15 to 14 years would be in line with the advice given by the police on several occasions. A reduction of the criminal lavalry to 14 years would not solve the problems of criminal children, but the authorities would have the opportunity to confront criminal youth with the consequences of their actions at an earlier time. A criminal case brought against entirely young people will not aim to put children in prison but to ensure that measures under child protection or criminal protection in freedom also meet the needs of society for protection. Today's Child Protection Act does not adequately address the social need for protection against crime committed by children, for a large part of criminal acts affecting other children. The right considers that a high-speed child-crime committee should be set up, which can review different aspects of the legislation and propose measures to address and prevent child and juvenile delinquency. I therefore take up the Right's proposal, and hope that it gets approval from several, among others. from the Workers' Party, which has expressed many of the same intentions in relation to its action plan for children.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e369	The representative of Trond Helleland has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e374	Thus, the right has proposed a high-speed child-criminal selection with the aim of creating a list of measures to prevent and address child and youth crime. The Workers' Party is also very concerned about prevention. Such a list of measures has also been proposed by the Labour Party in connection with the Ministry of Child and Family Budget for this year, so the Right has the opportunity to pick up some ideas from there. What made me take the floor was the link with the police officer in Oslo, Killengeren, and her statements for a while back, where she thought that the answer to the increase you have had in violence and crime, and which some politicians have been more police, was not enough, but that a more focused on prevention. We who got with us what happened in Oslo in the early 1990s, when the Right was responsible for the development of our capital and one after another was cancelled or, if necessary, shaved – also through the measures in which the State was involved, such as: on the Furuset – see that it was the beginning of much of the development we are seeing today. And then it's a paradox that the same parties afterwards come and call for more police. What got me to take the floor first of all is a question that I've been wondering for a long time, and that's why the Right wants a sample that can only come to one single conclusion. We have to get the Right to change its policy. At least we in the Labour Party do not need a separate selection to establish that the Right has to change its policy, whether it's here or in Oslo City.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e385	The representative Alstad refers to the Workers' Party's proposal for measures which may remedy this with child crime. The strange thing is that the Workers' Party only presented this after the state budget had been laid down – after they were absolutely sure that it was not adopted, and brought it as a sort of package of measures on which they were to use some of their cash support crowns. What we are asking for is for the Government to come up with a list of measures and for the Government to take this seriously. When the connection between child protection and crime is so bartantly rejected by the Government, we are disappointed at it, but it is not too late to turn around. I hope that the Government now, when it looks at the Child Protection Act further, goes in and looks at a list of measures, possibly setting up a child-crime committee, which can look at how to meet these children who have actually ended up on a criminal track long before they reach the criminal detainee. Alstad is wrong when he thinks that the Right only has one answer to these questions, namely more police. We know that these are not simple issues. These are complicated issues. That's what I said in my post. This is why we are asking for someone other than the representatives of Alstad and Fossum to sit down and go through this, and try to create a list of measures that cover much more than the use of police but that look at the overall situation of the child and see what action can be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e395	I hear that the representative Trond Helleland says that he is concerned with children, but in the comment in the Innst. O. No 49, it says: ‘These members consider that there is a need for complementary provisions of the Child Protection Act, both in order to ensure the high quality of the services to be provided by the protection of children and in order to safeguard society against criminal and violent children. These members believe it is important that the responses of society to criminal acts are as predictable as possible, regardless of where the child lives in the country. ‘... Right here is moving at a border, and that limit is where the Children's Protection Act crosses the penal code. I believe that the right here has crossed the border to the penal code. They believe that society should have equal responses to criminal acts. It's criminal law. It's not child protection law. My comment on what the Right stands for is: Hasn't society failed when we need to protect ourselves from children, and when the Right believes that the foremost task is for society to work for protection from the child? Shouldn't it be the other way around that society was supposed to protect the child? I think maybe the Right has an explanation problem when it comes to using the Children's Act just as a criminal law, finding responses that are similar all over the country, instead of helping children evolve away from the criminal racetrack. That's not how dangerous a child can be.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e407	The representative Fossum began by saying that the representative of Greece had said that he was concerned with children. Yes, of course I am concerned with children, and that is the Child Protection Act we are now treating. I am committed to the protection of society also against violent children and children who are still committing crime. Not least, I'm concerned about it in relation to other children who are affected by this crime. The fact that children are harassing children, that children are stabbing children, that children are actually dealing with criminal acts against their peers, is a serious social problem, and I cannot escape the idea that the Workers' Party, which has been with the government for so many years and has seen this development accelerate, has not grasped it. Then, after the budget has been adopted, they come forward with a sort of plan of action to which they will have the support of the Storting, even though they know they do not. So there's a question of this with the Children's Act or the Penal Code. The question back to the representative Fossum is: if she believes that this should be dealt with under the criminal law, I look forward to the Workers' Party proposing measures relating to the criminal law. But it doesn't seem like that's what she's after either. What the representative of Fossum really says is that this problem should not be taken so seriously because there are children we are talking about, and society should not intervene with them. I find that strange, and I find it strange that the representative Fossum and the Workers' Party are so elegantly trying to overlook the problems that are actually in this city, in other cities of a certain size and really over the whole country. Therefore, we say that there must be provisions that indicate the direction that child protection can take in the use of coercive agents, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e414	The representative of Greece here claimed that the Workers' Party did not take this seriously, neither in the government position nor in the opposition. Then I would like to remind you that the Workers' Party worked very seriously on this, with action plans, and there is also reason to believe that the current government is taking this problem seriously. It's just that we have different solutions, and the solution that the Right chooses is to use the criminal law on children to protect society from children. The representative of Greece also keeps coming back to his bad conscience, I think, because he couldn't get the Right to grant 50 million. for preventive measures. Now there is absolute opportunity for it in the revised, perhaps together with its governmentmates, to find out good preventive measures that help children instead of punishing them with criminal law. I look forward to the revised reading of the budget where the Right shows that they are taking this seriously since they have not been able to obtain money for this in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e421	The representative of Fossum is obviously ill-affected that I have claimed that the Workers' Party did nothing about this. Now the representative Fossum says that the Workers' Party has presented both long-term plans, action plans, etc. But what's the result? As a result, this type of crime has increased, and the action plans presented by the Workers' Party are of very little help. The right has no desire to force the police against minors. I also said that clearly in the article. The representative Fossum will deliberately misunderstand. When I said in my post that the Right does not want to use the Child Protection Act as a criminal law, the representative Fossum goes up and says exactly the opposite. Therefore, it would have been interesting if Grethe Fossum had listened to what appeared in the post and given a reaction on the basis of it, and not a response on the basis of their preconceived attitudes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e428	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e431	This bill addresses a number of important aspects of the child protection law. But the entire Children's Protection Act will now be under a comprehensive evaluation, and a wide-ranging selection is now working on this so that, in the next round, there will be a more comprehensive case on this to the Stortinge next spring. One of the proposals to amend the law now seeks to require police certification for certain groups to add and recruit child-resistance services as well as occupational bans for people who have committed sexual assaults against children and young people. This will in turn increase legal certainty and reduce the risk of child abuse that is already under the control of child protection measures. These criteria should apply to all types of addition relationships, including non-institutional ones. This may apply, for example: persons acting as visiting homes, support contacts and supervisors. All these functions are performed as a result of a contractual relationship with child protection, all of which have a responsibility in relation to children and young people under child protection measures. That is why it is good that a co-consultant committee now supports the proposal that all members of child protection institutions should be required to have a compulsory police record. No one would thus feel suspicious when a police record is demanded as an excuse to get this kind of position or job relationship. Otherwise, the government is working for an active growth policy, where a different support system stimulates voluntary efforts and positive growth environments that act as prevention of violence, bullying, intoxication and racism. This applies to both big cities and districts. Here the preventive action is important. It is all too easy to call for faster criminal responses, lower criminal law age, more police and stricter sentences when children and young people have done something wrong. Everyone's talking about Jeppe drinking, but no one's asking why Jeppe drank. Children and young people do not become rulers of themselves. Something has happened to them after they have experienced care failure at home or at school. Rescued children are going to be great. Then they easily seek a career where the chosen one gives the identity, honor and friendship of others in the same situation. We must initially have a much stronger prevention protection for children. Many young people need more security than freedom. Above all, the goal must be to create good living conditions for children, so that they do not develop behavioral difficulties that in turn lead to crime. This is not supposed to be done by child protection itself. All private and public authorities dealing with children must take responsibility here. And most municipalities today have plans to tackle problems among young people. In addition, we can also often have in mind the neighbourly crumb, which often in the past was the one who organized when the world or society otherwise did not power it. I think at all we have to care more about each other and about how our neighbor is doing. At the same time, it is also clear to the police that the influence of alcohol is strongly linked to power, both at home and outside, both by the perpetrator and the victim. Nor should we be blind to this with regard to those who affect young people. Otherwise, society's forward-looking negative also in this area. I think otherwise prevention is about a wide range of individual measures that alone cannot reverse the spiral of power. Action like conflict counseling and bullying, like the one they had in many of the schools in Bergen recently, is fine. This also showed very good results. Similarly, measures taken in the media andprevalence prevention in schools are important. It may also be important to have a value debate that focuses on equivalency and human dignity. It will help to raise awareness of priorities in all age groups, which will also help prevent them. Otherwise, it may be a thought to show that a co-conspirator’s justice policy at Stortinget has underlined that ‘the family is the most important preventive factor, and then reforms that give more time to the family are also a criminal policy issue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e454	The changes that are now being made to the Child Protection Act are necessary measures to ensure the best for children and young people. Earlier this decade, changes were made to the Kindergarten Act which required those who are going to work in kindergarten to produce satisfactory police records. Now that the same things are being done with respect to employees of child protection institutions and persons performing tasks under the Child Protection Act and with respect to foster parents, these are important changes that help to ensure children and young people against abuse and thus provide greater security. The SV also believes that the time has come to assess a national authorisation system for private institutions used for the protection of children and young people, so that we can get it into the same framework as for county institutions and private institutions included in the plans of the county. There are currently no such authorisation schemes. It is probably almost easier to start an ordinary store today than it is for a private institution. SV believes that there is a need to be able to set requirements for competence and staffing levels at these institutions too, so that we can ensure that children and young people who are placed there are allowed to do so with a staff qualified to do the job. We should remember that children and young people who are placed in institutions under the Child Welfare Act for shorter or longer periods of time are in a difficult situation and have a special need to be taken care of. A national authorisation system will also allow us to set minimum standards for institutions to be used by the protection of children and young people. The professional environment of the Joint Organisation for Pediatric Education, Sosionoms and Caregivers has also repeatedly promoted this requirement for such an authorisation scheme. The representative from the Right was nervous that this would choke creativity in the private sector. This is not about choking creativity, nor is it about killing the private initiative, if that's what you're afraid of. This is about ensuring a minimum professional level. The aim is to ensure a certain level of manning. It's about avoiding incompetent creativity. I think it is also a bit strange that as the Right supports this with a police record, as the police record has been placed on the table and it is approved, it no longer plays a big role. You have to be both deaf and blind in politics so that you don't have to admit that child and youth crime is a very topical issue at the moment. It probably also applies to the lots in this room. SV is no exception. The Children’s Protection Act provides for specific measures for children with behavioural disabilities. A large majority of the hearing bodies in the consultation round carried out in this case support the view that it is important to maintain the distinction between criminal law responses and the measures taken under the Child Protection Act. For SV, it is important that this distinction is maintained and that the Child Protection Act is also used to implement prevention measures. In order to reduce crime in the youngest groups, there is a need for a wide range of measures rather than a narrow focus on punishment. The vast majority of things that are adopted in this Chamber are having economic consequences. Therefore, I dare to make a pious wish that the good intentions and proposals that have come here are followed up when the purse is to be distributed and the state budget is to be dealt with, especially in the case of prevention measures. Finally, I would like to address the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e475	The representative Eirik Langeland Fjeld has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e478	What we are dealing with here today is a bill that contains a number of important clarifications in the Child Protection Act – clarifications that are partly consistent with practice, but which make the law more clear and tidy. But there are also important changes that are more than clarifications, and some of them consider Left to be important. First of all, the municipality has access to bring proceedings before the court if the county council does not agree with its proposal. This is important in order to care for the child, because it is, after all, the municipality that is actually raising a case on behalf of the child. Furthermore, we see it as positive with the proposed amendment of Section 1-3 of the Proposition, of the possibility of replacing ongoing measures with other measures for children between 18 and 23 years of age, and that, in this way, for a longer time, children could be the responsibility of child protection rather than being transferred to possible social services, which could easily be the option. Furthermore, the deadline is positive when a request is made for the promotion of cases where private individuals are required, for example. Termination of care. The left is of the opinion that there is one proposal that goes beyond what is right to adopt. This concerns the proposal for Section 6-10 on the requirement for a police record. This is not the requirement that the police record of the left considers to be too extensive, but that is the consequence that the second paragraph of Section 6-10 draws from any police record that may include some sort of criminal offence in accordance with the preceding paragraph. It is an automatic consequence of a police certificate that contains a criminal offence of the kind listed, that it will therefore not be possible to have employment in the child protection service or in a child protection institution, or otherwise be recovered in relation to, for example, a child protection institution. foster homes, support contacts, etc. This consequence applies to the rest of the lifetime of the person concerned. We have no doubt that the intentions behind this proposal are the best, and that the purpose is to care for children in relation to being subjected to sexual abuse. The left, of course, is also committed to and committed to supporting sensible proposals that will take care of it. Now, on several occasions, the Left, on its own, has highlighted the principle that there should be an individual assessment in addition to the fact that an infringement has once taken place. I want to take a couple of examples to illustrate something that for us is a point. If a 20-year-old man has sex with a 15-year-old girl, it's a criminal relationship. It's okay. I am not as convinced that the same 20-year-old should be excluded from being a 50-year-old support contact. I think it's far from what you want to define as pedophilia that a 20-year-old has intercourse with a 15-year-old girlfriend. If a 16-year-old has profanity, as it's called, with a 13 1⁄2-year-old girl, there's also something that should be punishable. But I'm still asking questions about whether we're saying something about it being more likely that this 16-year-old as a 50-year-old will commit sexual assault than the one who hasn't been convicted for a similar relationship. I remind you that in the last case in Stortinget we were concerned that as many as possible would be able to do service for the protection of children if they were fit for it, and I think that this way you might be able to exclude a part that is fit. These are important reasons why we will vote against the second paragraph of Section 6-10, and I would therefore ask the President to raise the vote so that it can be accessed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e493	I'm going to take the same area as the last speaker, an area I have to admit that I myself have had some problems with, that's the case with police statements on recruitment. It is quite obvious that there is a strong need on our part to try to protect children from abuse as much as possible, but in my opinion police statements are not a good enough tool for this. When we first used this in connection with the kindergarten law a few years ago, it was emphatically stated that this was to be confined to kindergartens. But we know that it's gradually become a pretty common tool several places, without us stopping up and looking at experiences with the effect of police statements. Some press releases have shown that there is no security or guarantee to keep the attackers away from children. This gives a false sense of security, because this system is not good enough for quality assurance. Moreover, it is not possible in this way to prevent the offenders from working with children, as has been shown by the recent major infringement cases, where none of the parties involved would have been subject to such a requirement. It is also not possible to penalise this requirement to a particularly large extent. At the same time, there is also reason to include in this context the debate that took place in the wake of the Government's launch of a gapstick for attackers. Another problem is that the police record should be provided with information on the convictions imposed on the basis of some of the clauses of the criminal law, such as: breach of the sexual lavalier, on which the previous speaker was thoroughly concerned. Thus, using police records, we will actually impose a professional ban on people who are neither pedophiles nor criminalise children. It will be an assault on those who are innocently affected, and in the eagerness to protect children from abuse, we are thus at risk of committing assault ourselves. For this reason, the majority of the government has requested that changes in criminal law be assessed, so that it is possible to impose a professional ban or, where appropriate, to extend it to prevent offenders from seeking out environments with children. Thus, we ensure better and more effective protection of children against these people, and it will provide better protection for parents than what we can give them today – even if we provide them with false security to the extent – and we will have a far greater opportunity to punish the individual offender, because there is a judgment, and one bases the sanctions on it. It is therefore possible that this system could in the long term help to replace a police certification system, which is based on regulations in the light of violations of some of the paragraphs of the Criminal Code. We thus avoid a professional ban for all those who are thus innocently affected and who are erased are not a threat – neither to society nor to the children.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e506	I am pleased that the recommendation of the Family, Consumer and Administrative Committee in Innst. O. No 49 for 1998-99 is broadly in line with the proposals for changes to the child protection laws and social services laws proposed by the Government in Ot.prp. No 61 for 1997-98. The Children's Protection Act was published on 1 January 1993. In some areas, law enforcement has made changes necessary, and laws have been amended several times. The aim of the changes has been to greatly strengthen the legal security of children and parents who need action under the Child Protection Act. This is also the purpose of the most important changes currently proposed. In the context of the changes, a constant focus has been on providing the children with the best possible experience. Among other things, it has been proposed that a new directive prohibiting persons who have committed sexual assaults against children and young people from being given work or assignment in other areas. child protection institutions, foster homes, such as support contacts and the like. In order to ensure that persons guilty of such abuses do not receive such child protection missions, it is proposed that those seeking such positions or missions be required to provide a satisfactory police record. I'm glad that a co-consultant's committee has been in favour of this proposal. Here, the children’s concerns must be taken into account, even if it is also necessary to ensure that the offender has completed his sentence. Both the children and the attacker shall be entitled to care for both their human dignity and their legal security. Do not ignore the fact that a better protection for the child is also helpful for an overgrowth. The Committee has proposed to extend the Government’s proposal to include the administrative inclusion in the Child Welfare Service, such as leaders and case handlers. I have no objection to this. Nevertheless, I find reason to remind you that increasing demands for police certification and professional bans in and outside child protection can never be a guarantee against sexual abuse against children. Professional representatives must never become a sleep cushion for those who are responsible for their care situation or for the responsible administrative authorities. Nor should there be a sleep cushion in relation to the help the judge needs to start a new life. I am also very pleased that the Committee's plurality has been agreed with the Government that there should be no change in child protection laws, in view of measures for children and young people who commit criminal acts. It is, as noted, a fundamental principle in the Child Protection Act that action by law should take care of the child’s best interests. Protecting society shall not be the responsibility of the Child Welfare Service. I believe that society will be best placed to use its resources to identify measures that can help the child. The aim must be to introduce measures that have a positive impact on the further development of the child. It is not always the case that the measures that can work most effectively in order to stop criminal activity in the short term – such as: prison-like institutions — are the most effective in a slightly longer term. It's important to have a principal attitude to this. In order to ensure that children and young people with serious disabilities who are placed in an institution are provided with the assistance they need, the Government has proposed an obligation for municipalities to draw up action plans for the child. This proposal has also been adopted by the Committee. The same is true of the county's obligation to employ the private institutions they use for the placement of children and young people for the purposes of judicial supervision. The Committee has also agreed to support the Government's proposal for a time limit for the municipalities to bring matters before the public when the private party requires an amendment to its decision. As is the case today, the municipalities have no time limit in such cases, and the Ministry is aware that some municipalities spend far too much time in this case. Furthermore, the Committee's plurality has agreed with the proposal to give the municipalities the right to require the judicial review of their decision. Both of these changes are important for the legal certainty of those that apply. There are still major challenges in the area of child protection. The Ministry will therefore be involved in the practical functioning of the Children’s Protection Act and will take the initiative on the necessary changes. In this context, I would like to mention that child protection law is now subject to a comprehensive evaluation. The government has reduced a public selection to assess the functioning of child protection and, where appropriate, to propose measures and changes. The selection shall address all key areas of child protection, with a strong emphasis on how to strengthen the legal security of both parents and children in child protection matters, on how to develop relief measures in families, in their neighbourhoods and in foster home work. The result of the evaluation and the selection will be presented to Stortinget. This I will come back to later, and until then I am satisfied with the changes that the committee is agreeing to today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e522	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e525	I am somewhat surprised that the Council of State does not mention the proposal of the Progress Party on changes – or addition, as they themselves call it – in Section 3 that it is considered a care failure if parents with Norwegian citizenship or permanent residence in the country do not take action to ensure that children in Norway have acquired the necessary Norwegian knowledge when they are going to start in publicly funded school. The proposal itself is of such a nature that I had expected the Council of State to take a clear distance from it in its article. When that is not done, I will allow myself to say the following: The Advance Party is one of the Government's closest partners. When the Church, Education and Research Committee held a debate on language teaching last week, Carl said. In Hagen in connection with the cash support – which is part of the partnership between the Government and the Progress Party – that if parents with a migrant background did not take responsibility for teaching their Norwegian children before they came to school, they should be fined for the amount of the cash support. It might have been interesting to hear what the Council of State has to say about it stated by one of her collaborators in relation to cash support and one of the carriers of the Government's foundation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e532	Now I'm not going to go into who's the government's partner or one. What we know is that when it concerns the budget, the Labour Party does not want to cooperate with us. When it comes to other matters, we have also cooperated with the Working Party, without therefore going well for everything the Labour Party thinks. It also applies to other partners that this Government has. I didn't mean the proposal from the Progress Party, that's right, but if Rune Kristiansen has followed up, in the media, I clearly distanced myself from the Progress Party's proposal when it was about 14 days ago. I would like to repeat that the proposal that is here does not support me, nor does the Government. I only had five minutes to my post, and I didn't have the opportunity to take all the suggestions that came from the second party, there are also other suggestions here. I took what was the government's policy, and I was happy to endorse many of the proposals that we have put forward. Most of them have actually joined us, and I'm glad. When it comes to what Carl I. Hagen said in a debate last week in relation to cash support and fines, I will distance myself from it. When it concerns children’s Norwegian skills before they go to school, I believe we have other tools that are much better, including: the test scheme providing free kindergarten for the 5-year-olds in Oslo inner east. It is not long since I visited the nursery, and we really saw that these children got good Norwegian knowledge the year before they started school. I thought it was a more positive measure, but I can promise it would be nationwide – there is an economy inside the picture here. But some fines that kids can't Norwegian when they start school, it's not relevant for this government not to make any suggestions about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e541	I could almost have wanted to respond to the last replicator said, but I hope I could take a three minute walk later. From what the Council of State says in its statement, I attach great importance to the fact that the Government finds no basis for amending the Child Protection Act or taking action against the violent crime trend we see among children and young people in Oslo. The Prime Minister has said that the Government attaches great importance to dealing with this problem. But it does not harmonize with what the Council of State now expresses, that no action is needed. I want to point out, if you're going to deal with the reality, that there might be others outside the Progress Party who speak in the same way that we do. The protection of children has even called for greater opportunities for forced entry. Youth Against Vold's leader said in a meeting with me here in Stortinget about training institutions: Unfortunately, some young people are so bad at driving that one today can't help them in any way. Just such institutions as the Progress Party proposes may be an opportunity to help them, while safeguarding the interests of society. Ragnhild Björnebeck, who is a researcher at the Police College, puts even more emphasis on this. In a meeting with the Family Policy Selection of the Advance Party here in the house, she answered directly questions from me: We can no longer assess such institutions, we have to implement them. If we ignore the fact that this comes from the Progress Party, will the Council not listen to these people?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e552	Yes, I am listening to constructive and good suggestions. For me, it actually doesn't mean anything who they're from, only they're good. And when the Progress Party has good suggestions, I listen to them. When they have bad suggestions, I also listen, but then I'm not with them, and I have to show that through the answer I give. I want to stress – and it is very important for me – that this applies to a child protection law. So it's the children who have to be protected, it has to be the whole thing. But when the representative Sandberg says that I have said that we should not take action to bring down the ruling tendencies in Oslo, this is not true. I have not mentioned it in my post, but we have many good steps to bring down the authority in Oslo. I want to mention special measures we have for those who are worst off, for example. the youth who breaks laws and who needs help from child protection. There we have actions on hand, and we have cooperation between professionals, homes and possibly others who can help these young people. So there's a lot of things going on, but of course we could say we should have more. I've visited several of the places where we've been taking action. And sometimes when I hear it is said that nothing is done, I wonder what our society would be like if that were the case. It's done a lot, and it's actually doing a lot of good. We are now taking action to help these young people who are at their worst, who Per Sandberg was also concerned about. But it is not said that the best thing to do is to put them into a prison-like institution. I think there are very few young people who will be slightly better citizens by having a break behind them in prison as young as we talk about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e561	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e564	I registered that the Council of State in its response to Rune Kristiansen thought it was very important for immigrant children to be in kindergarten. It gives me hope that the level of ambition for kindergarten development will increase. We'll see. It's actually like there's been a change in the view of children. In preindustrial times, children were viewed as small adults. The new family withdrew the children from the public spaces, such as workplaces and squares, and into the family. Children were to be raised. That was the primary task of homes, eventually also of the school. Children would be protected from adult life. This image was later changed. The new family created the picture of the child as their own being with special needs. This recognition that children are small individuals who are entitled to a safe and well-growth led to the adoption of the law on ‘absence in the treatment of children’ early in this century. The law was aimed at specific social problems in the Norwegian community, in particular against increased crime among children. In this way, some of the responsibilities for vulnerable children and young people were now integrated into the public sector. When it comes to the life situation of children, as adults, we must do everything in our power to safeguard the lives of children. We read daily about child abuse, committed by adults who take advantage of children's trust. I would therefore like to give the Committee the honour that it is now under way that the Child Welfare Service should be obliged to provide information on whether employees of child protection institutions have committed sexual violations against children. Unfortunately, it is necessary to protect children and parents from people with these tendencies. It is unfortunately also a fact that too many abuses occur within the home's four walls. It must therefore be of general interest that foster parents should also be cleared before the home is approved as a foster home. Adult people with a good conscience should not have problems with this. Working with children means a great deal of responsibility. I therefore agree with the committee that believes that a police record should be mandatory. Children are initially confident and have no barriers to adults. If this trust is abused, it may harm the child for the rest of his life. I would therefore like to point out that a compulsory police certificate ensures that children are in kindergarten and school. But it doesn't guarantee children against assault that happens in the private sphere. Too many criminal acts against children have been committed by close family members or by some family members. Kindergarten is often the place where children can express their fears, and on several occasions it is the employees of kindergartens who report when something is wrong. The growing-up conditions of children concern all of us, and I would therefore like to point out the need for closer cooperation between the police and child protection. The duty of professional secrecy lies behind many people. I hope that the obligation of professional secrecy will not prevent open cooperation when this is at the best of the child – it is at worst a starting point for misunderstandings. I believe that if we were relieved of the obligation of professional secrecy for those who work for and with children, many injuries could be prevented.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e583	When Odelstingen deals with changes in the law on child protection services, it must be right to focus on the fact that the children of child protection are the weakest of all. Children in need of care from the public utility are more vacated for good and safe care than anyone else. The Workers' Party's view is that they need political defenders more than anyone else in society. It is therefore essential that child protection has a precise and clear legal framework to deal with. There is something predictable about debates on child protection when the Progress Party participates. Without exception, they are able to produce child protection as a care that they do not trust. Now it might look like they'd found the exception they've been looking for to use the Child Protection Service, but they have an explanation problem about how to practice it. In the past, the Progress Party has been very concerned about the role of parents in child protection matters. In the case of immigrant parents, this is not important. They shall be fined if they do not teach the children Norwegian until they begin school. I have to repeat that this takes of course the Workers' Party very far away from. In isolation, there is nothing serious about the fundamental disagreement between the Progress Party and the Working Party on the functioning of child protection. But what is serious is that the Progress Party, through its attitudes, weakens the confidence of the child protection community. It reinforces attitudes towards child protection just making it bad and difficult for parents and their children. This isn't right. It's a black paint of the effort that child protection is making. Evidence can be found that many parents are in contact with child protection and that many issues will be resolved in cooperation with child protection. The latter is the best, but then it is also important to lower the threshold in order to get help at home, as both the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party have previously pointed out. My perception is that child protection is too often too late to provide assistance to children who have difficulties. Very many of the children admitted under the care of child protection are exposed to violence and sexual assault. And for this reason, it is essential that we ensure, as far as possible, that children are safe from abuse within the institutions and measures of child protection. There are not so many press groups to talk about the case of children's protection. That is why we have a special responsibility for the safest functioning of child protection. And I am very pleased that the committee has taken this point so seriously that it proposes that a satisfactory police record be presented when a person is to be hired in the Child Welfare Service. In this case, it is clarified from the Committee that the Child Protection Act should be based on the fundamental view that the needs of children are primarily to be cared for by their parents and that the conditions for action against the will of the child and its parents are very strict. Of course they should be. We in the Labour Party are very concerned that there is a wide range of choices to be made regarding prevention measures for children and young people. And I am very pleased that the majority of the committee has clarified that child protection is an aid body for children and families, and not a response body when children and young people commit criminal acts. That children commit criminal acts is a problem for society, not for child protection alone.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e604	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e607	First, I would like to express to the Council of State that I think it was joyous and positive that she then took a cash distance from both the idea and the proposal of the Progress Party relating to the role of child protection in relation to immigrant families where the children had not learned Norwegian before they started primary school. The progress party is trying – and I choose to use the word try – to present it as if it were not for immigrant children or children with a migrant background, but in the debate on language teaching, the representatives of the Progress Party were very clear on which groups they were talking about. The attitude of the party to child protection in the historical context is that they have always been negative both to the activeness of child protection and to the role of child protection in relation to children. It has been like this all the way: it is the parents who must have the overall responsibility, and child protection in the eyes of the Progress Party has in many ways been the ‘disgusting wolf’ to children. Now, suddenly, the Progress Party, as it approaches an election campaign and issues of immigration policy, has integrated child protection – also in a proposal here today. In that case, child protection should play an active role in care failure, i.e. if the children are unable to Norwegian. I have to say that after hearing the debate last week – because that is the debate I want to continue here – and the use of words, talking about fines, I am quite startled by the way in which the Progress Party in this debate through Per Sandberg tries to minimize the proposals of the Progress Party, as a more direct amendment to Section 3. Because it really wasn't. The paragraph was to be used as an active instrument for parents who, according to their objectives, did not have the clear assumption that all children entering primary school would be able to Norwegian. The whole teaching of the mother tongue would be terminated, and those who had not been able to learn Norwegian would have a clear criminal reaction with fines related to care failure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e614	I only want to fix an error in the setting on page 22, section 6-10, next paragraph. It's supposed to say: ‘The party to whom the application has been made or who has been convicted of an infringement referred to in the fifth subparagraph shall be excluded from carrying out the work or tasks referred to in this provision. ‘... It says "fourth term" in the configuration, but it has to be "fiveth term". Otherwise I would encourage SV to make suggestion No. 5 to a transmission proposal, because there might be something in the proposal that might be worth looking a little bit closer to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e629	The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has made a mistake on page 22 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e632	One of the proposals that have been given great attention is how to describe and classify the problem that parents do not teach their children to master or understand the language they depend on in order to function and acquire knowledge in Norway. It must be such that care failure must be considered if clearly necessary skills to cope are not adequately provided to the children. So the question is, what is the most appropriate way to help those kids who haven't gotten these necessary skills? Here's more possibilities. For example, support contacts or other association with people who control and use Norwegian may be a dangerous road. But after hearing the debate, I think it might be good to point out that something is classified as a care failure, does not automatically result in any takeover. The distinction between care failure and serious care failure should perhaps be expected to be more understood by the legislative assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e639	We have witnessed this evening a debate that some representatives in this Chamber have tried to get themselves involved with immigrants. But it's not just that. In fact, child protection applies to all children, and then you might get a little bit of an explanation problem. The Labour Party takes its habit of taking a great deal of distance from everything the Progress Party stands for in such debates, and they should be allowed to do so. But to claim that the Progress Party weakens the position of child protection is to go a little too far. For child protection based on preventive measures on voluntary grounds, very often it can be good. And that's it. But when child protection is used by coercion, every human being in this country should think of never so little. In the case-law, the Procedural Party has made proposals which, in the absence of action, are subject to fines and preventative measures cannot be used. It has been duly commented on. But proposal No. 3, § 9-2, also refers to some form of coercion. I quote: ‘Where a child is away from home as a result of a law-enforcement decision, the municipality may require the establishment of a breeding contribution from each of the parents from the month following the commencement of the placement and up to the end of the month of the placement. Raising contributions may be required only if they are considered reasonable from the point of view of the financial situation of the parents. ‘... This would be a very strong decision, which would actually introduce a continuous periodic penalty payment, until parents again, under the same child protection, were fit as parents. And here we have to distinguish between two things: there are decisions that involve volunteering and therefore only concern day-to-day care, and decisions that involve coercion and therefore also concern parental responsibility. And how it might be right to take away from parents the total responsibility for their children, but then use them as some kind of municipal bank, where you should be able to take out larger monthly sums, yes I don't understand. This is at least a form of double morality from which the Progress Party takes a strong distance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e651	The representative of Kristiansen is very concerned about a debate that took place in Stortingen a week ago, about language teaching in school. In that debate, all the research carried out in this area which confirms that this is so good was requested by the Progress Party. I have not yet received access to research to show what is so positive about the teaching of native language at school. On the other hand, I have been given access to a report from Anton Herem at the Educational Research Centre that shows the opposite: The teaching of mother tongues for our new countrymen, the immigrant children, has been completely discarded. Children have the ability to absorb languages in a completely different way than anyone else. That is why it is so interesting in this debate to know why it is so necessary to spend so much resources on mother tongue education, while one in a way is being harassed by the fact that we want to put in place measures that strengthen Norwegian education. And that's what care failure is on the coin. It's a little amazing when Kristians also promote arguments around that are soon ten years old. I have said earlier today that there has been a development in child protection. There has been a raging development, perhaps with the Progress Party putting pressure on it through these measures. But Kristiansen does not react to the episode that we experienced in document 2 on television yesterday, where child protection with its experts actually – and that is my claim – stands out with racist views in the reports, where they point out that a girl who has migrated to Norway has crooked eyes and looks like a mongoloid because of it. That's why they're taking the baby. It was Document 2 about yesterday. There are such issues the Progress Party is responding to, and that is where we are warning against child protection. I will also be allowed to draw a proposal from the Progress Party. This concerns the proposal for Section 5-8, which turns out to be a misunderstanding with regard to the suspension and the Child Protection Act.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e662	Per Sandberg has drawn one of the Progress Party's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e665	The representative Sandberg has, up to several times in this debate, referred to TV entries yesterday, and I do not understand and understand why the Progress Party on Death and Life is going to introduce several proposals in order to be able to make several of the kinds of mistakes that it could look like yesterday, because that is precisely what the debate on the proposals of the Progress Party is often about. I just refer from Dagbladet in 1995 to the debate on Alvheim’s 10-point plan, where it said: ‘Alvheim clearly sees that his ‘Ten Commandments’ will help undermine the trust in child protection’. I understand that the Progress Party has known this plan dead and powerless afterwards, and has recognized that child protection has also changed, which they had also done at that time, without the Progress Party having got it with it at the time. And we appreciate the fact that there is a development on the part of the Progress Party in relation to child protection. So to this debate about learning satisfactory Norwegian. Firstly, I would like to challenge the Progress Party: What is ‘adequate Norwegian’? In previous debates I have been in, among others. With the P4 leader of the Progress Party in the South thirty, I have a clear impression that this is primarily a measure aimed at immigrants. It was definitely rejected in the beginning here – to my surprise – so I realize that we have come there that all children who have not learned satisfactory Norwegian are at risk of child protection measures. What is ‘satisfactory Norwegian’? Not least, it could have been interesting to know also for Norwegian parents. Then it was said from the pulpit in place for a three-minute period that there was no thought of taking care of it. When introducing child protection measures, the effective take-over of care is one of them, without specifying in the recommendation of the Progress Party that it is not a measure to apply. But it is so reassuring. I tried to challenge the Progress Party in the change of lines with the main promoter of the Advance Party: What kind of action is the Progress Party going to take when you don't want to implement the takeover? That might have been interesting to hear. Then I expect that both questions have been raised by the Progress Party: What is ‘satisfactory Norwegian’? – Innmari interesting for all Norwegian parents. And: What are the measures to be taken to protect children against those who may fail that job?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e680	Per Sandberg places great emphasis on a TV programme on TV2 yesterday. I dare not – and will not – stand here and decide whether it was child protection or whether it was the court that had taken a decision. Then you can have your own opinions about that program. But it sounds like Per Sandberg is absolutely convinced of and 100 pst. I am sure that it was the child protection decision that was documented on TV2 yesterday – I am not as sure that he is right in that assumption. But leave it. The reason why I spoke in this debate is, of course, that the Progress Party will now use child protection and care failure in relation to Norwegian skills related to children who are going to start primary school. So you could say, as Per Sandberg said earlier this evening, we haven't taken out a particular group. There is a general attitude related to the text of the option. I have read it, but I have also registered that the representative Hagen is now in the room, and the representative Hagen was quite clear last week when we discussed the mother tongue teaching. It has not been my commitment here to go up to a new debate on parental education – it is the role of child protection related to care failure and the principles put forward by the Progress Party in relation to saying that you do not want to take the child away from parents, but you want, for example. using the amount of the cash support as a fine to those who have failed to provide care. And that has not been mentioned by the representative Sandberg in one word so far in the debate. It may therefore be interesting, when it is precisely the committee in which Sandberg sits, which has submitted the comments in the vote and the proposal, to hear whether he fully agrees that this is what has been thought, namely that those who fail in Norwegian training should be fined for what may be paid in cash.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e687	The party has raised an interesting question: Shouldn't immigrant children learn Norwegian? That's what they say when a cutter cuts everything down to scratch. Of course, we all say, that's the key to a good life in Norway. And then we're going to make demands on parents. We must make demands on all parents, including those with a foreign cultural background. But are we going to impose requirements on parents with a foreign cultural background other than those we make to the Norwegians? Should we call it the carelessness of foreign-cultural parents because they don't have the power to teach their children Norwegian when they don't even speak the language? And does the Progress Party actually believe that Norwegian kids' skills are improving by fineing their parents $30,000? When we last dealt with the Children's Protection Act, I realized that the Progress Party had little faith in child protection and was very suspicious of what they did, and my question to the Progress Party now must be: Will they go out and give the multicultural parents the same warnings that they gave in their time to the Norwegian parents, Alvheim's so-called ten commandments? Or do they distance from this now? I experience, as the representative Sandberg, getting a lot of child-rescue stuff, and what am I sitting with then? Well, I'm sitting with one side of the case, namely, the parents. I have little access to what the children think about the situation they are in, and not least to what child protection knows about that matter. This means that there will be a very one-sided procedure when the representative Sandberg deals with child protection and puts it out as the whole and full truth. There are other ways to learn Norwegian than that your parents teach you Norwegian. And how interested is the Progress Party in adopting such a policy when they are constantly making sure that there is less orphanage expansion in Norway? In fact, kindergartens are the place where children with a multicultural background learn best Norwegian. The Progress Party should do the 'hiemmeleksa si' before they came to this pulpit and spoke Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e696	After the round of talks by the representative Sandberg clarifying what is the intention behind the proposal of the Progress Party on care failure, it must be noted that there is very little agreement between the intention and the form the proposal has taken. One must be able to interpret it in such a way that, at best, the design is unfortunate, something in the direction of an accident at work, because if it is the intention to strengthen the provision of adequate Norwegian training in preschool age, it is impossible for the proposal to be adequate in its follow-up to that intention. Then it belongs to the proposal in a completely different context from where you talk about child protection law and care failure. There was another point I would like to make at the end. In particular, the main posts of the representative Fossum are in place, but the Council of State was also concerned with the same rhetoric, namely to oppose the protection of children and the protection of society. It is, in my opinion, a pointless issue. When the right-hand attitude speaks of society’s need for protection as well, it goes into the very well-documented fact that most of the crimes committed by minors are directed against other minors, even children who are more minors than themselves. If you're going to take the victims seriously, and if you're going to take those who commit the crime seriously, you have to react in some way that can be perceived by the children who commit this crime. It becomes quite empty rhetoric for me to say that there are children to be protected, not society. If you're going to count children as members of society at all, and that's hopefully what we're going to do -- children aren't the object of society's activity, they're part of society themselves -- and when we know that there's a child that's the best thing to do about children's crime, it's with respect to notifying you to stick your head in the sand and take the ostrich's position if you refuse to take that question seriously. We all agree that it is better to prevent than to respond afterwards – of course. But that doesn't mean that you can't deal with the problem that prevention doesn't always work, and that there is actually such an abuse against children from children. I see the intervention of the representative Fossum on this point as a rather serious form of de minimisation both of the situation of the victims and of the situation of the robbers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e703	Per Sandberg has the word twice and will now be given the word for a short comment of one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e706	Then I will use the short comment to try to find the reason why one does not reach the Workers' Party in such cases as this. Grethe Fossum was in on this with language. It's possible that my dialect is such that Grethe Fossum doesn't understand what the intentions are, but okay. Yes, it is a signal to distant cultural and Norwegian parents that it should be characterised as a care failure if they have not taught their Norwegians until they begin primary school. It's a signal! Yes, it is a requirement for parents, a requirement for parents' responsibilities to be strengthened in this area. And it's a clear signal to the long-term cultural parents who have lived in Norway for 20 years and who don't yet perform to give their children Norwegian knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e714	Now that we have had a debate on proposals from the Progress Party, I would like to make a contribution, and then in relation to two of the proposals that are available. I think that the proposal put forward to the new Section 4-1, new third sentence, could also deserve some attention, because it is actually a very important step in principle the Progress Party that takes when they go from making the child's best into a decisive criterion in relation to any child protection intervention, to say that the protection of society should be equal to the child's best in terms of child protection interventions. I think it's a fundamental step that there's every reason to distance from. Luckily, the Right does not go as far, and I believe in a good deal of the reasoning put forward here by the representative. However, it is important to maintain, as a fundamental principle, that the best interests of the child should be safeguarded by the protection of the child. On the other hand, I believe that there might be reason to look at the criteria in §4-24, when there is access to action in relation to behavioural problems, and perhaps also to look at the criteria for taking provisional decisions under the same provision in the context of a subsequent revision of the Child Protection Act. It's possible that here we've got a practice that can actually be in the strictest shape with regard to what's going on being serious crime, that you just set the threshold too high for what you think is serious crime. But that should be taken in a broader context. So to the proposal for Section 3 and care failure due to the lack of Norwegian knowledge: With the placement made by the Progress Party of this proposal, namely in a provision that deals with the prevention tasks of child protection in general, and does not address the individual child in the individual family situation, it actually assumed to take this relatively positive and to say that the Progress Party here points to a problem that can be taken seriously, namely the responsibility of society for the proper Norwegian knowledge of children when they begin school – including those from abroad. But there's something about the concept -- at least in my head. I react to this being referred to as ‘care failure’. But in fact, I think this has happened a certain drift on the part of the Progress Party in the argument, which sometimes turns out that I feel it could be acceptable. Why not take the step fully and make this a problem in relation to the Training Act and the question of which cases specific education is relevant before starting school? Then maybe we could start talking about this in a reasonable way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e727	If other batches do not consider lack of training in Norwegian to be care failure, do these batches have to be considered acceptable? One might prefer that children can Norwegian, but will not do anything to help these children if their parents are not aware of their responsibilities. In fact, child protection may need to take action to help children, and sometimes it may also be necessary to provide a basis for this if parents do not cooperate against assumption to get this Norwegian training in place. It is strange that some people are jumping to the conclusion that the Progress Party wants as much care as possible for immigrant children. What is important and the imperative of power is to clarify very strongly that knowledge in Norwegian is a basic skill in order to be able to cope, and that parents actually have to take this responsibility seriously, regardless of whether they themselves consider themselves able to Norwegian well or not.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e736	First, to Harald Hove on the proposal to amend the heading of Section 4-1 and Section 4-1, new third sentence, which includes this on ‘protection of society’. I just want to draw attention to the fact that this is amanuensis Svein Lekan at the University of Oslo, who has written chronicles and articles about this. That is very well justified. And then to a couple of committee members, who haven't even wanted to read and interfere with Norwegian child protection legislation before they start a debate. It's about Rune Kristiansen and Grethe Fossum. Paragraph 4 deals with specific measures, together with Chapter 3, on the general tasks of the Child Protection Service. In our proposal to Section 3-1, the preventive activities of the Child Welfare Service, we introduce a supplement that allows the Child Welfare Service to do its job. Today it says: ‘The Community shall monitor closely the situation of children and shall be responsible for finding measures to prevent care failure and behavioural problems. Children’s protection services are specifically responsible for the detection of care failures, behavioural, social and emotional problems so early that lasting problems can be avoided and action taken in this respect. ‘... There's nothing on lack of language skills. So what we've added is the following: ‘It is considered a care failure if parents of Norwegian citizenship or permanent residence in the country do not take adequate measures to ensure that children resident in the country have acquired the necessary Norwegian knowledge when starting in the publicly funded school ’ – if the parents do not take ‘responsible measures’. It's not the politicians' job to say what it is, and it's a host of opportunities. I could talk about it for ten minutes if there had been time for it. But if you looked at what the Child Welfare Service can do if this is discovered, then it is § 4-4, Auxiliary measures for children and families, which is the paragraph that tells you what to do. It says in the second paragraph: ‘The child protection service shall, where the child is particularly in need of it because of the situation in the home or for other reasons,’ and where, through a proposal for a change to Section 3-1, we have provided the basis for a situation in which the child protection service is entitled to intervene, ‘provide for the provision of assistance measures for the child and the family, such as: by appointing support contacts, by providing space for the child in kindergarten, or by means of relief measures at home. Similarly, the Child Welfare Service shall also seek to implement measures that may stimulate the leisure activity of the child or contribute to the provision of training or work to the child or to the possibility of living outside the home. The child protection service may further place the home under supervision by appointing the child’s supervisor. The child protection service may also provide financial support as an aid measure for the child. ‘... There's enough of things, lots of things, babysitting can do to help these kids. Today they are not allowed to use § 4-4, because the lack of Norwegian knowledge and Norwegian training is not allowed to intervene. We ensure this on the ground to prevent the children from meeting the care deficit they are facing today, and as the majority think it is all right for them to meet.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e764	The Labour Party instead asked a question about what measures the Advance Party will put in, and I think the Workers' Party has been fairly well informed about that right now. Otherwise, the representatives of the Progress Party are not child protection or trained to assess specific measures in such a situation. That's what we've hired people for. So I want to grasp something the representative Fossum said, namely, to make demands on the parents “with a foreign cultural background” – parents who do not speak the language. What we're doing is wise to make demands on Norwegian citizens or others with permanent residence in the country. And if we have a large group of people who are Norwegian citizens, or have permanent residence in the country, and who do not speak Norwegian at all, then we have a problem – a significant problem – and the problem is not just about the children. But someone has refused to see this problem so early that you could do something about it. Then Fossum goes on to say that she also gets a lot of child protection stuff, but that she of these things only saw one side, namely the parents – not the children’s, and not at all the child protection. But it is actually the parents who, under the Children's Act, are responsible for their children, until they are denied the right to do so – so this is a slight reversal of the actual situation. I will be allowed to welcome the representative Hove for his good will to see something positive in a proposal from the Progress Party. But when he says that this must be included in the training law, especially for children who have not started school, then lawyer Hove is something on the wild roads. The Training Act covers only children who have started school and not kindergarten children.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e777	The President will take note that it is the representative of the Hove who is present here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e783	It has been nice to record that up to several of the representatives have pointed out my ten commandments to parents who get into the claws on child protection. I take that as very positive, and I can tell the same representatives that I am currently making an explanation for these ten commandments – a catechism – that comes out in less than a very long time. Then you who have criticized these ten points will have the opportunity to understand what they say. You have today stated that it has not been understood at all. So to the representative who wanted to know what the Progress Party would propose instead of taking care of it. Well, it's physical, verbal help in the very home – for parents and children. This is the primary objective and intention of the Child Protection Act, not the other measures. This makes child protection very rare, because it is precious and considerate. It is much easier to take the child out of the home, send it to foster homes and be done with it. I am amazed at the reaction it has been to this with Norwegian language and care failure. I have read about and gone through a lot of child protection issues, and one of the points that have been used and used to take care of the child is that the parents do not give the child linguistic stimulation, so that the child is unable to speak Norwegian properly when it is five-six years old. That is one of the reasons why care decisions are taken. And what would be the difference between that and demanding that our new countrymen learn Norwegian? Here you talk more about politics and ideology, and you are far from the practical life where child protection works – at least the representatives I have heard so far.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e792	Rune E. Kristiansen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment of up to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e795	I'm going to end by saying what I've tried to say, but that's not the Progress Party going in – and I understand that. Point 1: It's approaching the election campaign. Then the Progress Party travels its positive mention of child protection. Point 2: When child protection can be used in immigration policy debates, the Progress Party uses it. Point 3: Have not the vast majority of people in this room and others been on to teach immigrant children and families that there is a need for Norwegian training, without using child protection and attaching it to care failure? It is only the Progress Party that has done so. I stand by the fact that it's the end of the Progress Party today draws, as they did last week: now we've tried so many grips, and now we want to go beyond what anyone else has done, now we're putting in the last impact, the Child Protection. If we fail, we use the cash support as a remedy. That is the truth of the debate relating to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e806	Jon Olav Alstad has had the word twice, and gets the word for a short comment of up to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e809	After four Frps in a row and row have strung up and tried to take some distance from what is their own proposal, I feel that we are gradually starting to get in the right direction again. There is a great deal of emphasis on the need for assistance. What Alvheim means by what he goes up to the pulpit and says, I don't know, but one of his points was: don't accept help, it's interpreted as you're not doing yourself. More clearly, I don't think that can be said. At least I don't need either catechism or anything else to understand what it's saying there. But I understand that the debate is coming down to this is that help measures should be put in place at home to deal with care failures. I think it's okay that the Progress Party is gradually beginning to accept that child protection has a function in society, and accepts the job they're doing. One thing I have not yet received a reply to: What is satisfactory Norwegian?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e816	In this debate, the Progress Party has made significant efforts – quantitatively speaking – to explain what is meant and what is not the intention of the party’s proposals. That's what I think is positive, because through it's probably a simplification of something that was originally a double communication, and maybe even a multiple communication. If it's now brought down to a simple and comprehensible level, this hasn't been in vain. But there are still a few loose threads left, because the representative Sandberg claimed in a previous post that they mentioned ten bids from the representative Alvheim was on the agenda in 1992-93, because then the situation was quite different from today. We have just been told that the ten bids will come in the update, the puzzle and the new edition, and that is, of course, to be met with anticipation. I want to predict for sure the remark that I still believe that I will keep a button on the original version of the ten bids.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e824	I think it's interesting when the representative Carl I. Hagen goes to the pulpit and accuses a lot of big business representatives of not complying with the Children's Protection Act. Paragraphs 3 to 1 refer to the protection of children ‘is particularly responsible for seeking and responding to care failures, behavioural, social and emotional problems so early that lasting problems can be avoided.’ None of us disagree with that. What is particularly true of the proposals of the Progress Party is that they are entering and defining one area as a care failure. They don't care about sexual abuse, they don't care about parents who don't have children at school, but they go into one area – parents' language training. This means that they have now linked immigration policies and child protection policies – quite cleverly compared to the choice group they stand for. And this is what they're going to use in the election campaign. I think this is cynical policy. Child protection is such that child-responsors proceed with discretion in matters of care failure. And the Progress Party has decided that they should make this connection in order to make a better choice – not a better choice for the children, but a better choice for their own party. And I don't think that's always the best thing for the kids!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e836	Ursula Evje has had the word twice, and gets the word for a short comment of up to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e839	Whether the representative Fossum accuses people of not doing their homework, or the representative Hagen claims and claims that people have not read the law, is probably about the same thing. There I see no big difference. What I want to try to address is the representative Alstad's repeated questions about what is satisfactory Norwegian. It's actually defined in the mother tongue notification. There is so much Norwegian that you can follow adequate teaching in a sensible and straightforward way. Then it is satisfactory Norwegian. When it comes to knowing what it is, it's probably not just immigrant children who are bad out to drive. There are many Norwegian children who cannot say ‘boilers’, but say ‘souls’, who simply cannot say ‘meat cakes’ – and not ‘hamburger’ either – but say ‘sweet cakes’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e848	My last attempt today to conduct adult education of Grethe Fossum: The second paragraph of Section 3-1 of the Child Protection Act states today – that is what enables child protection to intervene with its work and services: ‘The child protection service is specifically responsible for the detection of care failures. ‘... It is true that if child protection comes to a family where there are children aged 4-5, where parents have not put in place any measures to teach Norwegian, and they cannot do anything Norwegian – that is the one thing we have mentioned in relation to this paragraph – it is not a care failure that makes it possible for child protection services to do anything today. Behavioural problem – no, not knowing language is no behavioral problem! Social problems – no, not being able to speak is not a social problem! Emotional problems – no, it's not! As stated above, these problems are to be identified as ‘so early that lasting problems can be avoided and action taken in relation to them’. That there are Norwegian citizens with children aged 4-5 who cannot speak Norwegian, are not in kindergarten, are not with other Norwegian children in leisure time to learn Norwegian, no action is taken, child protection can only be a witness, they cannot do anything. Some of the child-restraints have pointed out that they are not authorised to initiate measures. And then the Labour Party representative – I don't know if it was Rune Kristiansen or Jon Olav Alstad: what actions? So it's in Section 4-4. Helping children and the family may be provided by appointing support contacts, by ensuring that the child is accommodated in kindergarten. But then they first have to have a permit in Section 3-1 to intervene with the parents who have not done so themselves, to determine relief measures at home that may be part of a Norwegian training course, and to help them get a nursery place. But they have to have the shelter, and they don't have it today. Similarly, the Child Protection Service shall also seek to implement measures to stimulate the leisure activity of the child. They can also be involved in steering, so that children in leisure activities come together with Norwegian-speaking children. But they have to have the home, today they can't do it. And the second paragraph of Section 4-4 states: ‘or contribute to the provision of education or work to the child’. Well, education can also be called it even if it concerns 4-5 year-olds —special education. And it says in Section 4-4, third paragraph, that it can be for the public. We have a system that can help these children in a much better way than today, but the child protection service that has the means of action, which has the economy, lacks legal support to start doing something. That's the law home we're trying to give them, to make sure that the least possible child is exposed to the lack of language training, in the language they need in the country where they're going to live in the rest of their life.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e868	André Kukkestad has the word twice and gets the word for a short comment of up to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e871	It's interesting to hear the statements that come running through the air, that it's cynical politics to allow child protection to help children who can't Norwegian, and that for some reason the Progress Party would change its policy because it's approaching elections. I must be allowed to say that I do not know where the representative Fossum, and possibly Kristiansen, has this from. The closest thing that comes into my mind is the saying that by itself you may know others.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e876	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e884	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 - 3. Before we go to voting, the president will notice that the time for the evening meeting is soon to come. The President will propose that the meeting proceed until the matters on today's map are completed. - It'll be taken as a receipt.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e909	Notification of Odelsting's decision will be sent to Lamentationet.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e929	The President has understood that the Progress Party and the Right will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e939	Notification of Odelsting's decision will be sent to Lamentationet.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e945	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Grethe G. Fossum, on behalf of Mr Arbeiddar, on proposal No. 2, by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Progressive Democrats, No. 3, by Ola T. Lånke on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party proposal No. 4, by Trond Helleland on behalf of Right, and proposal No. 5, from Eirik Langeland Mountain on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President will first refer to proposal No. One, four, five. Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, says: ‘The Government is asking the Government to consider extending the sanctions provided for in the Criminal Code in order to better protect children from child abuse and to ensure that they are not given the opportunity to work or work with children. ‘... Proposal No. 4, from the Right, sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to set up a rapid work on the child crime commission, the aim of which is to establish a list of measures to prevent and address juvenile and juvenile delinquency. ‘... Proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government is asked to draw up proposals for a national prior authorisation system for private institutions used in the field of child protection and youth protection. ‘... These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e995	The President will vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, when the law on child-resistance services, § §3-1 up to and including 4-25 – §5-8 of the proposal has been withdrawn. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 17 July 1992 No 100 on child protection services are amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e1111	The first subparagraph is preceded by an aberrant proposal, No. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘ § 6-10 new first sentence shall be replaced by the following:The person to be employed in the Child Protection Service shall provide a satisfactory police record. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e1127	Before voting on the other paragraphs of Section 6-10, the President will take note of the fact that the Chairman of the Committee is entitled to the sixth paragraph so that the ‘fifth paragraph’ is replaced by ‘fourth paragraph’. It's going to be over the sixth term first. The left has a message that they want to voice against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e1140	§ 6-10 second, third, fourth, fifth and seventh paragraphs are signed up to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e1156	The President would point out that the first paragraph of Section 7-3 applies to both the fourth and fifth sentences. Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The new fourth sentence of the first paragraph of Section 7-3 shall be replaced by the following: Where the case concerns claims made by the private party for amendments to a previous decision, the Child Protection Service shall prepare and transmit the case to the county council as soon as possible and at the latest within two months of receipt of the claim from the child protection service. In exceptional cases, the period may be four months. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e1174	The President will vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, to § 9-2. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 17 July 1992 No 100 if child-protection services are provided:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e1218	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Law of 13 December 1991 No. 81 on social security nurturing etc. the first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 9-2 shall be replaced by the following:The list referred to in the first paragraph of points (a), (b) and (c) shall apply for four years at a time. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e1256	The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e1310	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-lower.ana.ud1699e1317	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
