ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e46	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e51	I suggest Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e56	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e68	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e79	Odelsting is making a historic decision today. After a long history, today we are going to adopt a law on patient rights that will strengthen the legal position of patients. In this law we get a law of: right to a specialist health service right to review right to the choice of hospital right to participation and information right to consent to health care right to the transparency of records specific rights for children the establishment of a patient ombudsman system The fundamental and fundamental aspects of patient rights legislation were drawn up by the Stortinget in the Inner East. S. No 165 for 1994-95, based on St.meld. No 50 for 1994-95, Cooperation and governance. A number of other decisions in Stortinget also form the basis for the patient rights law we are now to adopt. Before deepening central parts of the law, I want to commend the entire Social Committee for very constructive work, which has made my role as rapporteur-in-chief. However, the main result of this is that the Committee is united on the key provisions of the law, and that is a broad majority of all provisions of the law. This gives the law greater legitimacy and power, and means something to those for whom the law is for, namely our future patients. I will first give some general considerations of the law and the issues associated with this. Patient rights provisions have been spread across many different health care laws. Norwegian health legislation is very comprehensive and may be difficult to find in both healthcare professionals and patients. The legal certainty of patients depends to a large extent on clear and transparent legal formulations and easily accessible information. Legal certainty is also conditional on people and individuals having the necessary knowledge of their rights. The legal certainty of patients is strengthened by the provision of a separate law on patient rights which clarifies and improves patients’ rights also in areas related to the integrity, human dignity, self-determination, information, participation and effective and formal access to justice. In addition, it is important that patient stakeholder organisations and unhidden bodies can take care of patients’ interests both in relation to those responsible for providing the patients with the necessary healthcare and those who may have financial interests in withholding patients’ legitimate demands for healthcare or financial settlement. It is essential that the entire population be guaranteed equal access to good quality healthcare. Clear rights for patients are a necessary contribution to this, while clearly formulated and practised rights are necessary to promote patient-health trust. The concept of rights does not have any unique content. A distinction can be made roughly between formal and substantive rights: Formal rights are rules of procedure in the broad sense, for example: professional secrecy, transparency, complaint rules, some provisions on the patient representative, etc. Tangible rights relate to the right to specific benefits such as services or money and the corresponding obligations of the public, institution and, where appropriate, health workers. The need for accountability may also have a material side, e.g.: requirements for special treatment. The rights granted by a grant must be capable of being fulfilled, so that no rights are introduced that create expectations of something that is unattainable and that create ambiguity and distrust of the health service. Rights may contribute to the effective prioritisation of the necessary healthcare. As a result, the right-holding can be a management and good resource use instrument, ensuring compliance with national minimum standards and priorities. In recent years, a number of organisational and economic reforms have been adopted that are expected to strengthen the capacity and quality of the healthcare system, and thus also the rights and access of the patient to healthcare. For example, the fixed system, better hospital management through improved internal organisation, regional health planning, effort-driven funding, etc. can be mentioned. In other words, the retention of rights is a legal instrument that must be seen in the context of other instruments. The waiting time guarantee has been at the heart of the priority debate ever since the Social Ministry in 1990 laid down the regulation on waiting lists and priority for patients. The origin of the guarantee is based on the principle of seriousness, but practice has shifted to a guarantee that is largely linked to diagnosis, making the waiting period guarantee not a good enough tool for prioritisation and thus equal treatment of patients with comparable disorders. The problem of the guarantee has been primarily different from the practice of the criteria, which has meant serious differences from state to state. Examples show that the proportion of patients referred to as guarantee patients could vary from 16 pst. in one county to 70 pst. in another, and from 10 pst. to 90 pst. within the same field of competence. Even worse than that, the State Health Authority has previously revealed a fictitious waiting list. Of long-term expectations, 15 were pst. Of the patients, 15 pst. did not require treatment and 20 pst. did not have a diagnosis that included the guarantee allocation. There is reason to believe that this type of slurry and indifference to the waiting list system has clearly improved, but it must be emphasised that it has taken an unnecessary time to improve the quality of the waiting lists. It is the Local Health Service Act and the Special Health Service Act that are primarily to provide health services in society, while the Patient Rights Act is to contribute to the right of distribution, but not only to ensure this. The provision of the law that has received the highest attention is, of course, the question of the right to exercise the right to specialised health services. We already have a legal right to community health care and emergency care. It was said to be up to 65 pst. patients in the specialist healthcare system are hospitalised as emergency patients. An overall committee is now in place to establish the right to the necessary healthcare from the specialist healthcare service. It's an overall committee that is behind the fundamental criteria for who should have this right. The Progress Party distinguishes the layer by the majority by part of the clarifications made by the majority, while the Right stands with the governmental parties, the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party on the premises of all the paragraphs, with the exception of the point that the right relates to the publicly approved and funded specialised health service and the institution with which the County Council agrees, as expressed in the premises. However, both the Right Party and the Advance Party have some specific comments which, in addition, deepen the basis for the wording they have of the right provision they propose. I believe that there is a clear strength to the interpretation and enforcement of the law that there is a broad majority in the central areas of the law. A joint committee says something about the consequences of the right-holding that I believe is important: ‘The Committee considers that there are groups with the most precisely described diagnoses and specific treatment options that already have a much better chance of obtaining the necessary specialist health services than groups with diffuse disorders and lack of or inadequate treatment options. The Committee points out that this occurred during the consultation process during the examination of this Act.’ I am thinking of the consultation opinions given both in meetings with the Committee and in written material. ‘The Committee also considers that reference should be made to the Wage II Committee where chroniclers, persons with diffuse disorders and psychiatric patients have long been under-priority. The Committee would argue that it is not likely that these groups would be in a worse position with the right to special health assistance.’.» I would like to add that, at my own expense, these patients have just ended up in a legal state without a right-wing attachment in the situation that the Wage II Committee describes relatively precisely. I would also like to point out that the Committee says: ‘Poor groups that are currently given low priority in specialist health services can be given an important break for basic health care.’ In an opinion poll conducted by Opinion A/S, 87 pst. by the Norwegian population that they will have a statutory right to specialist treatment within a reasonable period of time. I believe this is a sign that many people feel insecure as to whether they get help when they get sick, which is also confirmed by the survey. Now I would like to stress that the actual situation in Norway is so that most patients get the health care they can get, even within a reasonable and reasonable time. Feeling uncertain about the need for health care will easily lead to less confidence in public health services. This could also reinforce an ongoing trend towards more privatisation in the health sector and not least the emergence of health insurance schemes. Once the Committee has actually expressed this view, it demonstrates an attitude and an opinion that health insurance schemes cannot guarantee people sound and economically sound health services. For all lots except the Advance Party, it has been important to clarify what should be included in the concept of ‘necessary health care’. But, as we say, lower priority healthcare does not have to mean that the healthcare system should not do this, but it can neither be a right nor a priority in the healthcare system. As one must assume that not everyone can get all the health services fulfilled immediately, we will also have to give priority to others in a rights-based healthcare service. The majority, all except the Advance Party, have therefore endeavoured to make limitations related to the severity criteria. We have found to refer to the criteria that the previously mentioned Wage II Committee has clarified, and we have in the committee setting relatively detailedly addressed this. I believe that this can provide a good basis for the ministry when the regulations of the Patient Rights Act are to be drawn up. In this context, there will be a number of studies and treatment modalities in which it is not obvious that the available resources will allow neither rights nor priorities. However, I would like to clarify – in line with what I said earlier – that patients with complex disorders, chroniclers and others with diagnosis of this kind should not be excluded from the right fixation. So will it be that before the right to health care is fully realised, adopted escalation plans must be implemented, and the majority has shown a number of other plans and assumptions. The majority of the Committee has otherwise pointed out that in cases where patients have to wait longer for treatment than is desirable, yes, it is important that the primary healthcare services, in consultation with specialist healthcare, follow up these patients on a sound medical basis. I want to clarify on behalf of the majority the duty of the county to add to a specialist health service that captures the right that patients have been granted by the Patient Rights Act – or that we will receive during this day. This is related to both scope and quality. Where the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV, have attached the right to specialist health assistance to publicly funded specialised health services in the Reich and other service providers to the extent that the county council has concluded agreements with them on the provision of services and within the limits set by the capacity, this means a decisive obligation for the county council to provide patients in the Reich with a health service law to the effect that they are entitled to. The Patient Rights Act contains a number of provisions that strengthen the patient’s position in addition to the provision for necessary health care, and I will briefly address some of these. The Committee stands together on the definition of ‘patient’, which implies that persons are already defined as patients at the time of referral to the healthcare system and are thus entitled to have a possible refusal of treatment tested. There seem to be too many examples of people who don't get this right fulfilled in today's system. With regard to the issue of relatives, the Committee has advocated clarification of the legal text which more clearly meets the patient’s view of who should be considered as the closest relative. There may be cases where the relationship between the patient and the immediate family is such that it would not be natural for these to uphold the patient's rights against his wishes. A central point of the law is the right to be assessed, where the patient shall be entitled to have his/her condition assessed within 30 working days of receipt of the referral and then be informed of what treatment he/she can expect to receive and when the treatment can be expected to be given. If a serious illness is suspected, such as: some cancers, the patient is immediately followed up more quickly. The Committee has come to the conclusion in the process that it is necessary to clarify this, mentioning that if cancer is suspected, this assessment is to be carried out within 15 working days, which, hopefully, is already a practice. The Committee is united in the view of the right to be reviewed by the patient, but distinguishes the fact that the review should be subject to a new referral from the general practitioner. The majority believe that before you can revisit the specialist healthcare service, you must have been referred back by a general practitioner. The law involves the right for the patient to choose a hospital within the same treatment level. Although the Labour Party primarily wants this right to be restricted to the health region or to the neighbouring region in other regions, we note that a majority in the UK has adopted this earlier. I would like to stress that patients who need long-term and coordinated healthcare now have the right to have an individual plan. With this tool in hand, these patients can make their right to use and even have an overview of the planned treatment schedule in a better way than in the past. I am very pleased that this came through the committee treatment. The provisions on the patient’s right to participation, information, consent, journal access and correction of incorrect information in the patient’s journal etc. provides patients with influence and the ability to take care of their interests. If the patient considers that he has not received the services he is entitled to, he will now have, through the complaint rules, a much stronger form than before, of formal redress. However, I would assume that the patient and service provider in the vast majority of cases where disagreements may arise, resolve this without the patient having to go the formal complaint route. The rules contained in the complaint provisions support this. The patient ombudsman system is now being legalised, and patients thereby get an unhealthy body to consult with and, if appropriate, a helper in their contact with the healthcare system. This is an important system, and I would like to stress that the patient representatives in all states should not only deal with the requests of patients and the audience, but also be able to take their own initiative and address critical issues that they get or get to know.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e206	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e209	In the newspaper on 29 April of this year, the representative Asmund Kristoffersen said the following on a question from journalist Jorunn Litland about whether he was skeptical about establishing a right to treatment: ‘Yes, but when we heard the patient organisations, we found that it’s time we gave patients clear rights.’ Asmund Kristoffersen further stated in the same interview: ‘We want the right to be properly informed of what is wrong with each patient and when proper treatment must take place. If the patient does not receive such sound treatment, he will have a legal right to complain.’;» My questions to the representative Asmund Kristoffersen will then be as follows: Does the representative Asmund Kristoffersen believe that the legal text as it now exists is clear? Why could the Workers' Party not go further and attach the right to treatment to a professionally defined period which would be legally binding on the county? Does the representative Asmund Kristoffersen think it right to burden serious sick people with extensive complaints in such a situation in order to obtain their rights?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e224	First of all, I want the statements I include in the legislative work to be stapled to what is happening in this Chamber, and to the comments that have been made in favour of the legislative text. When it comes to formulas in newspaper headlines, we know that they can be more or less precise. But it's true that impressions from patient organisations made an impression. And the dialogue that we had both in the committee and otherwise, at least gave me a new insight into the problem that made it worth listening to. Now I have heard these before, and I was also in the process of preparing the hearing note that the Council of State Gudmund Hernes presented in the autumn of 1997. There we know that there were two alternative proposals for paragraphs for rights fixing, one that went very far, and one that was at least close to what we are going to adopt today. So this is not a completely foreign thought. But I make it clear that a representation in a newspaper is not necessarily a precise representation of what has been said or what one might think. When it comes to the question of assessment, I will briefly mention it. I believe that the paragraph on the right to assessment is very important, because there the patient will receive the information that he will not receive in part today. Many sail around the system without knowing when they can expect treatment. That paragraph of the law very clearly provides for a service provider, the county council, to inform the patient of the time when treatment should take place and what kind of treatment he should receive. I think that is a clear improvement. I believe that the legal text is crystal clear at the right point. It is a long way to go, at least what is going on in court, identical to what is in the formulation of, for example, what John I. Alvheim was into. But we've taken some reservations, and I've done the right thing in my main post, about limitations that it's very important to have carried on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e235	I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done, and I would like to commend the rapporteur for the thorough work he has done as a basis for the Committee's position. In particular, I think the discussion of the waiting time guarantee and the possibilities for a right to treatment are insightful, and it represents a new job of breaking up. But the more disappointed I was, like the committee leader's, when the majority's bill was presented. And either now that the case rapporteur is correctly represented in the Newspaper or not, he is well aware that he has listened to the patient organisations, and that this is part of the background that the Workers' Party has now gone in to legislate for the right to treatment or the right to health care. Now it must probably be a paradox for the Workers' Party that the same patient organisations they have said will listen to, after they then voice disappointment at the majority's proposal for § 2-1 and were glad that there are at least two parties here in the Chamber, namely the Right Party and the Advance Party, which promote the proposal for treatment requested by the patient organisations – not in one way or another, but in general. I would like to ask the case rapporteur: can he say anything about how he views the difference between the majority and minority proposals? If the rating attachment is to be a priority breaker, for resource allocation, as he said in his post, then there is a danger that this could become a breaker bar before it is used, if the capacity, which is one of the main limitations imposed by the majority in its proposal, is to be realised. What is left of the right to treatment, and how does the rapporteur view the two different proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e246	I think we did a very important work in the committee, so I would like to commend someone else in this room, among other things. the replicator here, in relation to the limitations we tried to do in relation to what should be done right and what should not give right and, where appropriate, priority. It is very tempting to commend another person sitting in this room, Inge Wohnning, who led a selection that became a very important source of knowledge for me when I was going to go through the Patient Rights Act and see which other documents we should be dealing with. I found a number of precisely described issues and suggestions for solutions that we found to bring into this legal work, and that gave several of us a common platform. And I think in the further work for patients, it's a very important basis to bring with it, which maybe makes the Minister of Health's regulatory work affordable – because everything is not clear in the law, that's quite clear. Yes, it is possible that patient organisations may have expressed disappointment, but I saw that they could not have had access to or read all of the premises we left behind the bill. If you put together what's right there, with the statements that I've seen so far, I think it's a crack. And I also think, as I've clarified in my post, that a number of the patient groups that have had low priority may have the opportunity to get in. I don't think it's going to be in the interest of many of these patients that a make a completely open system where you bring the health funds under your arm and go abroad. It will, in a very short time, weaken the healthcare system that is just about to provide for those patient groups that do not have such strong rights today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e253	The SV here belongs to the majority with regard to all the legislative proposals. I would also like to say that there has been both exciting and rewarding work, and I do feel that everyone in the committee has contributed, and that the dividing lines are not necessarily very strong. However, I would like to ask the case rapporteur a question in relation to Section 2-1 Right to necessary health care, because after the Committee has given its opinion, I see that there are questions from various patient organisations about the understanding of the last comma in the fourth paragraph there, i.e. ‘and within the limits set by the capacity’. I want to explain to the SV the understanding we have of it. But it is clear that organizations may feel that with that sentence they are deprived of the rights described in advance. You'll be able to say very quickly that here, unfortunately, there is no capacity, and that way the right falls away. I therefore hope that the rapporteur can say something about the considerations that have led to that sentence, and what kind of restrictions that might be in it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e262	It has made me very happy, and I think it is for the benefit of the Norwegian patients, that so many parties stand together. That's right, as Ballo mentions: the working party and SV stand together at all points. I think that's fine. Ballo mentions an important point, a point that obviously needs clarification, not least in practice. So we've made a number of premises in common. I mentioned the pay-choice in particular, because it was what weighed the heaviest. But we also have a common reference to some of the escalation plans and other things that we think need to be implemented, before one might achieve the capacity that is needed to actually reach all of those that we should reach in relation to rights. I believe that this law is very important, even though we have imposed restrictions. As I said in my post, we are now putting a very strong pressure on the hospital owner to facilitate not only for services of quality, but also capacity, because the patient with the law can go to the service provider by hand and say: I have not been given my claim. This means that the service provider – mostly the county municipality in this case – has to make an effort to get it done. The alternatives, if they don't happen, can be many. I'm not going to wonder about that right now. But at least it, as I said, opens the way for other actors. As patients, we feel that we have a right to healthcare, and we have to feel confident that we get it. In the case of capacity, the service provider must make maximum efforts to facilitate both resourcefully and not least organisationally. There's still an incredible amount of bad organization. It looks like you're familiar with some cases.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e272	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e275	Let me begin by thanking the case rapporteur for once again arranging for the Committee a large and complex matter in a neat and insightful manner. During the Committee's work on the legislative proposal, there has been a significant change in relation to the legislative proposal regarding the right to necessary health care. With the present attitude, it is now legitimate to call this law a patient rights law, which was not the case with the draft law in Ot. pp. No 12 which existed on the part of the Government, and where the right to health care was not proposed by law. However, there is a serious problem in the wording that the legal text in Section 2-1 does not comply with the premises made by the majority to legislate on such rights. The majority’s premises consider that patients should receive the necessary health care within a time limit related to sound medical judgement, while the legislative text leaves it to the Ministry to lay down rules and time limits in the form of regulations. With the negative attitude of the Government in the proposition and the health minister in various opinions has had to attach rights, unfortunately, it cannot be expected that the regulations to be drawn up by the Government will be tightening up in relation to the patient’s interests. The majority also does not clarify another significant issue when we talk about statutory rights, namely the consequences for service providers when the right to necessary health care is not respected. I have recorded that the Minister of Health has stated in various contexts that the main reason for not proposing the right to treatment in the proposition was the fear that large resources should be included in the proceedings and the handling of complaints in the judiciary. In this regard, the Minister of Health has referred to the United States, as an example of horror in this way. To this end, it is first of all to say that the most important and frequent cases in the health care system in the United States go to complaints about individual treatments and maltreatments and not about the right to treatment. Norway has so far no culture for this type of case. With the extremely unclear legal text in the present position, however, I am afraid that this very ambiguity will lead to a rush of legal proceedings in the future. I do not ignore the fact that within a very short time this legal text needs to be changed and become more unambiguous and clear. A unanimous committee advocates the legalisation of the right to necessary health care and that ‘patients shall receive the necessary health care within a time limit related to sound medical judgement’. I refer here to the Committee's comments on pages 20-21 of the vote. However, the Committee shares the definition and scope of this right to health care and the consequences of breaches of the rights. As I interpret the legal text of sections 2 to 1 of the majority, this right to the necessary health care is largely limited to immediate assistance, and it is also limited and conditional on the availability and capacity of specialist health services at all times. The legal text of the majority, the second paragraph, states, inter alia: the following: ‘The right to health care only applies if the patient may have expected benefits from health care and the costs are proportionate to the effectiveness of the measure’. Necessary health care is provided here depending on the so-called dietary benefit. This is very worrying for the Progress Party, and this legal text can, in our view, be directly exclusive to different groups of chronically ill patients. The majority do not describe how the dietary benefit will work in practice, and I therefore allow myself to raise a specific question in the form of an example that I hope some of the majority representatives can answer. It is not uncommon for patients with advanced diabetes to develop severe arteriosclerosis in the legs, which causes severe pain and can be directly life-threatening. There are two forms of treatment that may be involved in such a situation, namely car surgery or amputation. In case, surgery will be much more expensive than amputation. The ratio is like 10:1. In both cases, the patient will survive, either with implanted artificial veins, and then maintain full quality of life, or lose one or both legs, with extremely poor quality of life. How should the dietary benefit be interpreted in this particular case? And there are similar cases in other disease groups. Is that the benefit for the patient to be taken from? Or is it the cost of society that will be crucial? My question is not hypothetical, but taken from the usual everyday life in any Norwegian hospital. Fortunately, I received a joint committee on a note that age should not be an independent criterion for assessing the dietary benefit of medical treatment, and I am pleased about that. But I know, on the other hand, that age today is unfortunately considered a very important additional criterion in some hospitals for various kinds of necessary health care. I personally question the use of the dietary term for health care. And if it is to be used, it should be the medical judgement that is crucial and not political priority criteria. I would like to remind you that very expensive treatments, including: in the context of the transplantation problem, can in the long term be very cost-effective for society, with the patient releasing frequent insertions and follow-up for many years after an organ transplant. The course of this legislative proposal in the Committee fully confirms what I suggested in my statement on the Special Health Service Act in Odelstinget, namely that there has clearly been a cooperation agreement on the treatment of the four health laws between the government parties and the Workers' Party from the time the case rapporteurs were appointed. The Progress Party has registered and takes note of the fact that the Government has chosen the Workers Party as a cooperating partner in the treatment of these four important health laws, which by few exceptions has led to the cementation of current health policies. Politically, one can make a lot of reflections on this cooperation between the Workers' Party and the government parties that I am not here to elaborate on, but I do not overlook that some of the government parties through this cooperation may have in the long term suggested other political constellations here in the house. However, I recall that it is completely different parties than the Workers' Party that have so far kept this government alive, and that it is these parties that are also judged outside this house to pursue a forward-looking health policy, at the premises of the users. The Labour Party, in a price-fixed way, took the signals from user organisations and the signals obtained from gallup studies that this law had to give a legal right to treatment. And it was very gratifying for me and the Progress Party to register an interview that the Newspaper had with the case-rapporteur, Asmund Kristoffersen, on 29 April. From this interview, I perceived the situation so that the Workers' Party would be in favour of a clear right-holders' attachment to the necessary treatment. After 29 April, when the new position of the Workers' Party became known, there has obviously been a strong torturing between the Workers' Party and the government parties, which, unfortunately, has resulted in a vague and weakened legal text, which will obviously cause problems for many treatment-intensive patients and for the hospitals in the future. In contrast to the majority, the Progress Party and the Right have a clear and unambiguous legal text in their proposal for the retention of rights in Section 2-1, a legal text that keeps water legal, and that will prevent complaints and legal proceedings in the future. In particular, the last part of the legislative proposal is very elucidating in determining the timing of treatment, which will then be determined by the specialist. It is equally clarifying as regards the legal rights of patients when given deadlines are exceeded, namely that if the patient does not receive treatment from the specialist healthcare service within the deadline, the patient is entitled to treatment at another public or authorised private health institution in the state or abroad for the same cost as in public hospitals at home. That the introduction of a legal right to treatment in the specialist healthcare sector in the short term would have to lead to a greater use of resources is correct. In this sense, many seriously ill and less seriously ill people today do not receive the health care they should be entitled to and need. On the other hand, there is evidence that a significant number of patients with non-serious life-threatening diseases go ill for a long time and unnecessarily burden the public’s health with formidable sums of money. Some have suggested that savings can only be made at the sick pay post in the event of a reduced waiting time. One billion dollars a year. In addition to the issue of legal rights attaching to healthcare, the Social Committee, with few exceptions, largely agrees in the present position. In general, the lawfulness of other circumstances in the present situation is an incorporation into the law of decisions previously taken in Stortinget. This applies, inter alia, to: free choice of hospitals, user involvement, information, consent, journal access, special rights for children and the patient representative system. In the case of reassessment rights, the Advance Party and the Right propose a new legal text that removes consent from the general practitioner, believing that it should be the patient’s own decision and a right for the patient to request a new assessment. In relation to free hospital choice, the Progress Party believes that the total cost of treatment in another state is to be covered by the National Agency without any interim accounts between the different counties, believing that the system as it stands today can weaken the right to, and above all, the practice of free hospital choice. Similarly, the Advance Party considers that travel expenses related to the free choice of hospitals are covered. The Progress Party proposes that the old scheme be reinstated, where travel expenses were allocated to the municipality of residence, the Rikstrygdeverket and the patient up to a third of each. However, the costs for the patient shall not exceed DKK 400 following the proposal of the Progress Party. Travel expenses should not be so high for the patient that the free hospital choice becomes illusory and that only those with a thick wallet can avail themselves of this right. The Progress Party has a change to the legal text in Section 1-1, where the party includes the care of the elderly in relation to the municipal health service as a statutory right. The last few days' horror stories about how elderly people are treated in our care institutions should, to the greatest extent, ensure that care for the elderly is included in the right law. The progress party will vote against the third paragraph of § 4-5, which is a consequence of the party promoting its own proposal in § 4-9, where the party goes against not giving blood transfusion or giving treatment on a hunger strike even if patients would oppose it. It may be difficult for health professionals at any time to judge whether refusal of health care is a personal conviction or a position taken after the influence of others. In this context, the Progress Party demonstrates that health professionals are obliged to provide life-saving health care. With regard to the legalisation of the system of patient representatives in all counties, the Progress Party supports this, but will have this system as a State responsibility to prevent an undesirable dependency on the county council, which is both an employer and a service provider. The Progress Party has proposed that the patient representatives as a state scheme be co-located with the state consumer offices in the counties. Finally, I would like to stress that it is the Workers' Party that needs to be credited that we now have a legal right to health care, even though the legal text is both unclear and incomplete, and I think it needs to change relatively quickly. At the end of the day, I would like to address the proposals on which the Progress Party is a part of the proposal, and the proposals on the part of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e337	John I. Alvheim has drawn up the proposals he has made for. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e342	Regardless of the acceptance by the batches of the alternative provisions on the right to necessary health care, all batches, with the exception of the Party of Advancement, in the Committee setting, contribute to the clarification and delineation of the concept of ‘necessary health care’. Such clarification is absolutely necessary in order to avoid the equalisation of serious and minor cases of disease and to provide health professionals and hospitals with some principal guidelines in the tough prioritisation work they have to carry out every single day. For example, all parties, except the Advance Party, are discussing: how the priorities of the Wage and Health Commission can be included and provide the right to the necessary health care with a practicable content in the Norwegian health system. Does the Progress Party believe that one can ignore the priorities as these emerge from the Wage Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e354	Meg knew that it has always been a practice in the Norwegian health care system, in Norwegian hospitals and among Norwegian doctors that the most serious cases have been treated first. There is no disagreement about it among professionals, nor should it be among others. That's what it's been, and that's what I think it should still be. It is the medical judgement and evaluation of doctors to determine the time when a patient must be treated in order not to create further problems for the patient. It is clear that we need to prioritise what the public health service is not supposed to care for, and at that point I fully agree with both the Wage I and Wage II Committee. But in the case of the other patients, those who are going to be treated, I'm somewhat uncertain about and partly disagree with the criteria that have been set. And those who are – I was saying – terminally ill, are being cared for, but we have an interlayer of patients who have a disorder that needs to be treated that is not life-threatening, but that can cause problems if you go too long. That's the one side of the case. The other side of the case is that many of these patients go ill and raise sick pay, and that was in the context that I in my post pointed out that here society could actually by having a legal right to treatment also for these patients save billions of dollars a year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e359	For the Christian People's Party, it has been a conscious goal to lift up weak patient groups that have been neglected for a long time. I will briefly mention disabled people, people affected by cancer, and not least the growing group of people who are struggling with mental problems. The Progress Party has been a good support player. The size has adopted a mental health escalation plan that lasts from this year to 2006, recognising that it takes time to build up a satisfactory treatment offer for this patient group, not least it takes time to get enough professionals – qualified professionals. The Christian People's Party has been so realistic and honest in terms of patient rights law that a right is limited by lack of capacity. This has to be built up over time. My question to the representative Alvheim will then be: Until the capacity is built up in Norway, will the Progress Party send psychiatric patients abroad, and does the Progress Party believe that patients will feel safe in such a situation when one knows how much a close and close network means for these patients?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e364	I've said before, and I like to repeat it here and now, that I don't agree that we have too few specialists in the specialist health service. I think we have professionals enough just that we could use them in a more correct and better way. I totally disagree with the reasoning put forward by the replicator, and which also arises from the present attitude, that resources and capacity should limit the right of sick people to receive treatment. I just don't accept that. All of us have said and said – especially in election campaigns – that health should be given priority, health and care in front of everything else. So that's what we're saying, but we're not going to do it. If we had, it wouldn't have been a problem to give patients full rights to treatment. I don't think it makes sense to send psychiatric patients to treatment abroad. There must be very special cases, which are so limited that you can professionally defend it, but I don't think there are any professionals in this country who will be in favour of such a practice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e373	I very much appreciate the fact that the representative Alvheim has received a unanimous committee to accept the statement that age is not a criterion in itself. At that point, the representative Alvheim and I share a genuine interest. But I assume that Alvheim also agrees that it has to be understood that it is not the nominal age in itself that is to be taken into account, but an overall assessment of the patient's condition, where, of course, the biological age is also a factor that counts when assessing whether certain types of treatment have any meaning, that is. whether they have a reasonable prospect of success, outweighed the risk of adverse effects on the patient. But my question is at the other end of the age scale. The Progress Party has a number of specific points in its attitude that are really on a collision course with this, because the 18-year general legal provisions are used as a basis for assessing all the issues such as age. the decision-making powers and the right to consent. The party chooses the most square of all solutions, that is to say that all under 18 years of age are without such competence. It seems unhealthy to me to use nominal age that way. And finally, it's a position that surprises me a lot from the Progress Party. You will not allow adults, decision-making patients the right to refuse, for example. receiving blood transfusions. I would like to ask the representative Alvheim whether this is really thoughtful, and whether it is not a direct incursion when you propose a legal text on page 29 in the setting that reads: ‘The patient does not have due to: serious convictions right to refuse to receive blood... ’ This must mean that if there is no such conviction, you have the right to refuse. And I guess that can't be the point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e390	I am pleased that the representative Wage and I agree that nominal age in itself should not be a criterion for rejection of treatment. I don't think it happens very often either, but I know that in the case of organ transplantation, some hospitals – and especially the Rikshospital that operates this – have set a limit of 60 years, because access to organs is so scarce that it is reserved for these younger people. I'm not going to go so deep into that, but it's something that creeps out for me if you only take the nominal age into account for the treatment that might be chosen. Yes, the Progress Party is in favour of a health authority age of 18 years, corresponding to the usual age of authority. We're the only party that does this, and it's related to parents' responsibilities. Today, 12-13-year-olds can go to the medical office and health centres and, for example, have their pills delivered without parents knowing anything about this. Our proposal is a response to this development, and we believe it is reasonable to set 18 years, which is, of course, the usual age of authority, even in terms of the age of health authority. We believe that many patients who express that they do not want to accept blood in an acute situation, where this means life or death, will not get that choice. There may be several reasons for this, but one reason may be external influence, so that the patient’s wish is actually not real.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e399	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e403	The Patient Rights Act shall contribute to the overall objective of the healthcare system, namely to ensure the whole population, irrespective of age, gender and place of residence, good access to quality health and care services in a publicly managed health and care sector. A patient rights law specifically places the patient and his rights at the centre of health policy. The Patient Rights Act regulates the legal relationship between the patient and the healthcare system, but also between patients. By legislating the right to health care, we want to show that this is an important right that should be guaranteed for those who need it. However, doubts have been raised as to whether the right-holding will work as intended in this context, and a number of arguments may be put forward and opposed, as has also been made in comments in the suspension. In my view, the fundamental issue here is whether a law on the right to specialist health service would create unintended priority distortions that could actually cause some patients to get worse than others after a right law has been passed. In particular, the fear has been that patients with chronic and poorly defined diseases, stress disorders and other diseases with unclear cause and not always effective treatment will be down-prioritised in a healthcare system as per. today does not have the capacity to provide all the treatment they may require at their request. I believe that this issue must be taken seriously. Also, in this context, I would like to refer to the position of the Wage II Committee where the minority, who agreed to the law on individual health care rights, stressed that the prerequisite for introducing such a right was a consensus on the priority criteria. We don't have such a consensus today. In this situation, it is essential that a person on a professional level commits the forces to reach such a consensus, and that this be followed up administratively as well as politically. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party, in consultation with the Ministry, has found it possible to go in for the legalisation of the right to necessary health care in the specialist health service, as it exists in today's setting. With regard to the content of the vote, I would like to refer to the thorough and good review of the rapporteur. Like the case rapporteur, I would also like to clarify the great degree of consensus that has been in the committee, despite the disagreement on Section 2-1 in particular. For the Christian People's Party, it has been essential that a patient rights law be credible, effective and fair. The law must be credible in that we do not give false hopes, hopes that cannot be fulfilled. The health system in Norway has its limitations today. We can't do everything we want to do. Therefore, the Storting has also adopted escalation plans for which there has been broad political agreement. I also believe that we all want a capacity increase that eliminates the need for waiting lists and provides research and treatment within a reasonable timeframe. We need to take into account today's situation, and we must not forget that it is necessary to increase both the capacity and the quality of the specialist healthcare service in order to achieve the objectives. The Patient Rights Act must also be effective and results-oriented. It's important that we get a law that gives the least room for interpretation and law enforcement. We want a health care system that is oriented towards patients, not towards the document piles. It is also important that the law becomes fair, that the one mentioned does not lead to accidental distortions in the relationship between different patient groups. Many patient groups have strong organisations that work well and are capable of providing premiscuous services, and we should be happy for that. But the weakest patients need to have certainty that they do not fall out of this context. In the view of the Christian People's Party, the legislative proposal promoted by the majority in consultation with the ministry is a good starting point for safeguarding patients' rights without accidental hopes or distortions. The main objection raised against the present legislative proposal is that it will not, without reservation, give the legal right to be dealt with. It is true that the proposal provides for such reservations. It also makes the minority proposal, but with a different angle, which goes into the cost framework for treatment. So what reservations does the majority in the vote take? Firstly, the right to health care shall only apply if the patient may have expected benefits from health care and costs are proportionate to the effectiveness of the measure. I think this is a very necessary reference to the fact that the health care system should not have an unlimited obligation for unlimited action in relation to individuals without regard to cost and expected benefit. We don't have a health care system that can act that way. The second limitation is that the right shall apply to publicly funded specialised health services in the State and other service providers to the extent that the county council has concluded a service agreement with them and within the limits set by the capacity. I think that such a reservation is also necessary. The reality is that the Norwegian health system today does not have unlimited capacity and therefore cannot immediately meet all wishes and requirements. If so, why have we adopted contingency plans for cancer, psychiatry and equipment in hospitals to billions of dollars over many years? If the health service per Today had been able to provide all necessary health care without any unwanted delay, this should not be necessary. But now we know that the reality is that, for example. psychiatry and cancer are two areas where capacity is not satisfactory. It will therefore not be realistic to suggest to these patient groups a service that they will not be able to fully benefit from until these plans have been followed up, which I hope they will be. Patient rights must also be administered. Good purposes and good rights may conflict with each other if the priority is not clear. At my discretion, the starting point must be the obligation of county councils to provide their residents with specialist health services. Most of us want primary treatment in our neighbourhood, even if we also want free hospital choice. The proposal for the Patient Rights Act contains a number of provisions that will give the patient an improved legal status. In addition to the right to the necessary healthcare provided by the specialist healthcare service, I would mention the right to review, the right to review, the right to choose a hospital, the right to individual level, clearer rights to participation and information, the right to consent to healthcare, the right to journal access, special rights for children, complaint procedures and patients’ representatives in all counties. We all want a law that best respects the patient's rights. There will be many good words today, and words oblige, at least they should. But the crucial thing for the patient is not good words about rights, but a good health care service that can meet the needs of necessary health care. In the end, this is where our good will will be tested: whether we are willing to take the necessary thank-you to give patients the health care they need – and to which they will now have the right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e441	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e444	First just a little comment to the representative Naess. I don't find it very strange that the government parties could support the proposal for the paragraph on the right to necessary health care, as the Workers' Party is behind it. There's no problem understanding that, because there's so many limitations to this that you really barely needed this paragraph because of all the constraints. In § 4-9 it is written as follows: ‘The patient is entitled to refuse blood or blood products or to refuse to interrupt an ongoing hunger strike because of serious convictions.’ I want the representative Naess to tell me one thing, because here I have a problem. What is a ‘serious conviction’? Does the representative feel that as long as you are a part of Jehovah’s Witnesses, you have a serious conviction that is enough to refuse to receive blood or blood products? Is there no concern about this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e456	The representative of Nesvik is right in saying this is a difficult medical-ethical problem. When he problematizes the term «serious conviction», I would just mention that the Progress Party also uses this wording in its alternative § 4-9. The starting point of the Christian People's Party is that health care can only be provided with the patient's consent. We value respect for the integrity of the individual, respect for freedom of expression, for example. on an ongoing hunger strike, respect for religious integrity and conviction and respect for the right to a natural and dignified death. It is clear that there may be borderline cases in this area. Here, there is a particularly limited possibility of refusing health care in these special situations mentioned by the representative Nesvik. In my view, as regards the requirements for a serious conviction, they must be that the patient is authoritative and has the right to consent, and have understood the information about the consequences of refusal. Otherwise, you can refuse to comply under the emergency aid principle.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e465	I must say, unfortunately, that I am quite provoked by the representatives of the Christian People's Party here today. Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund said in a reply that the Christian People's Party is realistic and honest in this matter, understood as opposed to the others. But are the positions taken by the Christian People’s Party in this matter realistic or honest? It is no longer longer than the election campaign in 1997 that the party leader – then and now – Valgerd Svarstad Haugland with brutal and bram to the delight of many – also my – went into the election campaign and promised that the Christian People's Party would go in for the legal right to treatment. Then it didn't take long for the new Minister of Health of the Christian People's Party to present his bill, without the right to treatment. Is it especially honest and proper, and do you keep words? How long did the election promise last? Yes, it lasted a few months. And then we get the setting, where the Christian People's Party, having limped and dragged into the Workers' Party for a few weeks, then agrees to some kind of right to treatment. I think you should be a little careful about giving yourself such nice words, when you're angled like this from side to side. For what does the Christian People’s Party really mean? Are they very happy with what they've done, or are they not? And what do they mean – I did not get an answer from the rapporteur – is the difference between the proposal that they themselves agree with the Workers' Party on, and what we in the minority have promoted? And then finally, Are Næss said that he thought that the Christian People's Party was especially concerned with caring for the weakest patient groups – those who are chronicles, those who have difficult disorders to define. But these patients themselves are asking for a right to treatment that is more or less identical to that minority. And they are disappointed, wounded and dismayed at the proposal of the Christian People's Party. So you get to be careful who you take income for their positions when they want to have it asked.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e474	The Christian People's Party will be honest with the capacity and content of the healthcare system today. And as far as the difference in the rights section of the majority and minority here is concerned, the Right Party and the Advance Party, as far as I see it, unilaterally use the cost framework of each patient as the limiting factor, while taking into account the constraint that necessarily lies in the availability of the capacity of the healthcare system. It is then referred to the party leader's proposal of 1997. Of her proposals of 25 August 1997, the vast majority have been followed up in this or other context. This applies to the right to assessment, to the right to information, to participation, to permanent, to free hospital choice. It is true that we have not followed up on the proposal to legislate for a three-month waiting period guarantee. But nobody else does that either, and as the rapporteur explained, there is no one per. today that sees it as a decent right attachment for patients. It is then that we have fulfilled the promises made in the election campaign in 1997. As far as I can see, in the law that we are adopting today, we have given the patient the right to health care within the limits that actually exist, and thus fulfilled the promises that have been given.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e483	I hope that my questions and my issues will be marked by far greater goodwill with the last speaker than the two previous replicators were. There is one issue that I think is extremely interesting, and that is when the Progress Party is going to make the age of authority 18 years, so that a person of 17 and 11 months, to say the same, should actually bring his parents to the doctor in order to get prescribed pills, or one should inform his parents because he is talking about a minor until he becomes 18 years old, so the majority – and the Christian People's Party is in that majority – believes that it is already at the age of 12 that it should be a balance between his biological age and his maturity whether the parents should be involved and informed. I see it as a gradual limit, based on what stands here, up to 16 years, but the 16-year limit, at least essentially, has to be seen as absolute, and that once 16 years of age, he is able to make his own decisions. In fact, the parents are not to be informed. It will also apply in relation to prevention guidance and prescription of contraception. Have I understood correctly here that while the Progress Party, at least on the basis of what they have said today, and the legislative proposals that they are promoting seem to have a very restrictive view of who is to be seen as an adult, the Christian People's Party does indeed agree that already at the age of 12, there will be a discretionary assessment as to whether parents should be informed or not, also as to the use of prevention and guidance related to it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e492	I think, like the representative Ballo, that most of us are growing up gradually. Sometimes it goes fast, and sometimes it doesn't go as fast as it should. In this context, we see, as most people do, that operating with one absolute age of government on health issues — for example, 18 years old — is totally unreasonable. One does not have to draw his own maturity or lack of maturity into that discussion, but those of us who have children of his age, I think, have a vivid impression of just this. That doesn't mean that the Christian People's Party thinks it's okay to run the prevention guidance for 12-13-year-olds without the parents' knowledge and consent. Here, you have to use common sense and reason. It's like it was pointed out by representatives a little bit older than me, that biological age at the other end of the scale should not be the only factor in an assessment. But you have to use common sense and also take into account the biological age, and also, of course, maturity in each case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e497	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e500	A Patient Rights Act shall lead patients to the operating room – not to the courtroom. The question is whether the majority's proposals will contribute to this. Today would be historic because a patient rights law will put patients’ needs at the centre of their lives instead of political, administrative, health or economic considerations. But the joy I feel isn't perfect. Of course, it is positive that the majority legislate for the right to necessary health care, but on the other hand, justice is so unclear and gives the ministry such great powers that I am unsure what it will actually mean for the patients. Nevertheless, in many areas, the law will strengthen patients’ rights through the right to free hospital choice, the right to review and review, and will also provide them with better assistance through the intervention of patients’ representatives. A common feature of many of the health reforms we have seen in recent years has been that they put the individual patient at the centre and leave the patient’s needs governing the healthcare system. These are reforms for which the Right has been in the forefront, so that, for example: limits are not more important than rapid treatment. The right has long struggled to legislate for treatment. When the Syse government introduced what was then called the waiting list guarantee, the intention was that there should be a legally binding right for patients. However, later governments have interpreted away patients’ right to treatment, so that today’s waiting time guarantee does not guarantee more than just that – to have to wait. In the last few years, the right has made proposals to legislate patients’ rights to treatment without obtaining a majority. That is why it should be thought that this was a joyous day for us in the Right, when old opponents of the right to treatment in the Workers' Party and the government parties – they are not so old opponents, but nevertheless – they turn around and join together on a proposal that legislates the right to necessary health care. For the Ministry and the Minister of Health, the right to health care has not exactly been the driving force. Not later than the day before the Committee gave its opinion, the Minister for Health warned against the statutory right to health care. He said, ‘I think there is every reason to fear American conditions with a race of lawsuits and complaints if we choose to impose legal objectives on the right to medical treatment.’ This was said by the Minister for Health, among others. The Official Journal of the Mountains. On the basis of the majority proposal his own party has joined, I understand that the Minister of Health is concerned, and he knew of this, of course, the day he said what he said. Indeed, the vague legal objectives of the majority on the right to health care will serve as a basis for actions and complaints. The majority’s entitlement to health care applies only to ‘within the capacity limits’. And it's the department that is going to be able to decide, through regulations, what healthcare patients may be entitled to, and whether there should be deadlines to comply with the law. But, as I said, patients don't want to go to the courtroom, they want to go to the operating room! Therefore, the warnings are also clear from patient organisations: the proposal is hollow and unclear because it takes so many reservations. I think the court cases will come in line, was the comment from the head of the Nursing Association. We are pleased that two parties on the Stortinget support our proposal for a statutory right to health care within reasonable time limits, but disappointed that the majority is in favour of limiting the legal right to health care, said the head of the Landsföreningen for Heart and Pulmonary Disease, Svein Erik Myrseth. And I understand their disappointment, because in the majority's proposals, the exceptions and restrictions are more prominent than the rights. One takes into account the clear and unambiguous and unambiguous points of view that everyone is behind, namely that the treatment should have an effect and be proportionate to the costs, but one does not take into account what should happen if the right you are given is not followed up. So it's a misunderstanding in the majority's legislative proposals that clearly goes towards limiting and making compliance with the law more difficult than making it clear and unambiguous so that patients know what to do with. The lack of clarity is reinforced by the fact that there is a clear gap between the majority's premise in the comments and the bill they promote. Because in the preambles, including the Right, it is stated that the patient should receive the necessary health care within a time limit related to sound medical judgement. But this important premise thus shines with its absence in the legal text, except as a possible prescription home for the ministry. And it's no further information for patients, who want to learn about the jungle, that they also have to try to figure out the rules that apply at all times. Right will warn against making political and non-medical assessments the basis for entitlement to health care and setting the deadline for treatment. The Right Party and the Progressive Party are thus promoting a proposal that gives clear rights to patients and says nothing about patients' rights if the deadline for fulfilling the right to treatment is not met. Our proposal is the statutory right to the necessary health care within an individual deadline, to be determined on the basis of a medical assessment. If the patient is not entitled to treatment within the time limit, the patient shall be offered treatment, within the same cost framework for public account, by another public or authorised private health institution in Norway or abroad. The individual deadline is seen as an agreement between the hospital and the patient. Thus, a breach automatically results in a right to treatment elsewhere for the public, without the patient hopefully having to complain. All parties have thought about new aspects of the Patient Rights Act. But it is only the Christian People's Party that has thought new in the wrong direction, because in the election campaign, Christian People's Party leader Valgerd Reply City Haugland could promise patients legal rights of treatment. It will be cheap rhetoric and unvaluation when Are Næss now just said that it was not what she proposed, she proposed a legal right or a legal regulation of the three-month guarantee. Of course, it's true, but you don't realize what was real at the time – and now – that it was perceived as it was, that the Christian People's Party promised a legal right to treatment that the Minister of Health didn't follow. That's why I think there's every reason to ask: Can you trust the Christian People's Party? So you can't. Nevertheless, they are bold enough to call themselves – and give themselves that label – realistic and honest, as opposed to others. The funny thing is, what has happened since 1997, when this promise was made? Do we know anything more today than we did then? Except that the capacity has become better than it was when Valgerd Svarstad Haugland promised a legal right to treatment, we know nothing more today. The question then is: Does the Christian People's Party's leadership today think that they did not know what they were doing in 1997, since the Minister of Health is now making a proposal that does not contain such a right to treatment? What really comes from the fact that the parties in the government position – with the exception of the Right – are against the legal right to treatment? It's probably close to believing that there's fear of increased costs that are the answer, whether the party's name is the Christian People's Party, the Center Party or the Workers' Party. The right to health care shall act as a break-up bar to increase the capacity of the healthcare system. It's actually saying the whole committee. But the majority are in favour of limiting the right by its capacity. Then you've kind of turned into a circular argument that doesn't end anywhere, but just bites its own tail. For what right is it when you go in for? There won't be any more patients to give the right to treatment. Maybe you can say that it's getting fewer, because they're getting treatment faster. Most people get sicker by waiting. So they need more treatment, which costs more, if they have to wait longer. It is more expensive for society to have patients on sick pay, on reintroduction or, if necessary, to end up as a disability pensioner than to provide them with treatment more quickly. And treatment should have them all, most of them. Why can't the majority see the budget chapters in context? Is it possible that the minority's proposal for a right to health care can lead to a need for greater resources for health care, but is it not any of the jokes? In addition, it will reduce the suffering. Isn't that some kind of joke? And that once again will reduce payments to sick pay, reinstatement and disability pension. So let me end by hoping and believing that the majority will use the legislative proposal that is likely to be passed, positive to increase patients' rights, and to see it as a break, as it is also called in the notes. Then we're going to hope that the department will follow up on giving regulations that might be presented to patients in a simple and straightforward way, so that you know that you have a time to deal with, and so that this law becomes the positive contribution it was supposed to be. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Right has made either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e543	Annelise Hoegh has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e549	On the basis of parts of the representative's posts, I think I have to throw back the ball I got in a previous line change. We have placed limitations on the right to health care, based on what both Annelise Höegh has been doing, and which I mentioned in my post. But I have not yet fully understood – I must admit – the consequences of the Right Law paragraph. The question then arises: What effect does it think will have on the resource situation in the Norwegian health system if it is to be a priority right to take Norwegian health crowns out of the country to the extent that the legal paragraph proposed by the Right might open up? Does that mean that the Right has a Sarepta jar somewhere?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e558	No, a Sarepta's jar doesn't have us or those who think they have it, because it doesn't exist. But as I have said so many times before, the right is a supporter of prioritizing the most important thing. Isn't the health service one of the most important things we do? We want – as I also said in my post – health care, if necessary, to be provided with increased resources, both in terms of money, equipment and personnel. It's probably everybody's agreed on, so it's a matter of weighing. I have to remind the representative Asmund Kristoffersen that taking money abroad is nothing new that we have found at the moment. It is a well-tested system that, not least, the Workers' Party was very concerned about in the 1980s. That time it was called the Heart Bridge. But I agree with the committee leader that I believe the capacity in terms of personnel and equipment is much bigger and far better than what we often hear from government teams today, if only you were allowed to use your capacity for the benefit of patients. But in any case, waiting for the capacity here at home to be expanded to what it should be, we are willing to give the patients who want to travel abroad, the opportunity to do so, within the framework of what it would have cost to treat them here at home. But, of course, it should not be like a representative of the Christian People's Party said earlier in the debate that we should force, for example. Psychiatric patients for foreign treatment against their own will. It is then poorly understood what patient rights mean, what user management means. Of course, this does not mean that governments should direct users abroad against their will. It's a futility. But our main wish is that a patient rights law with a right to treatment should be the breaking line committee in its comments says it should be, and that will force us here in this room to prioritise the health service higher on the political agenda than we have been able to do today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e567	Annelise Höegh admits that I have quoted correctly from the party leader's statements of August 1997 that the Christian People's Party is in favour of the right to review, information, participation, fixed, free hospital choice, etc., but continues to claim that this involves lifting breach. I have nothing else to do but refer to the press release from that meeting. A law on patient rights must be realistic and credible, and the Christian People's Party has chosen to be realistic. We know and see that today's capacity limits the treatment we can offer. We admit it, and therefore work to improve the capacity and quality of the Norwegian health care system. Now we've adopted a stepping-up plan for the psychiatry over eight years, because the capacity is not good enough. Why would the Right then be involved in throwing away billions of dollars on increased appropriations for psychiatry, cancer treatment and hospital equipment? These escalation plans must be completely unnecessary if the conditions are already such that we can introduce the Progress Party and the Right to necessary health care without reservations. Does the Right really dare to guarantee psychiatric patients health care according to their paragraph today? If we can do that today, it must be unnecessary health care we invest in. Where are these patients going to fit? They shall not be coerced abroad. However, if the psychiatric health service in Norway today has the capacity to accept psychiatric patients under the Right Right-wing Rights paragraph, it must be unnecessary to bet on this escalation of psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e576	Harald Hove.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e579	Can I answer first?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e586	I'm sorry. Actually, the president didn't expect Harald Hove to answer. Here you go, Annelise Höegh.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e589	First this with the Christian People's Party's desire for legally binding waiting time guarantee and whether it is a breach of promises or not. I have this press release here. I have to say to the representative Are Næss that if not the health minister made this proposal, namely a proposal with no legal right to health care, is a breach of promise in relation to the Valgerd Svarstad Haugland promised in the election campaign and scored high, then I don't know. I maintain that it is cheap rhetoric and unraveling of the actual reality to try to avoid this by saying that this was a proposal to make the three-month guarantee binding, which nobody is promoting anymore, it is right, but it is therefore a fact that we do not want to give patients the right to treatment, and it did not encourage the Minister of Health to propose. Then I must say that the rest of the line bears the mark of being written before today's debate began, or at least before the representative Naess had heard my post. Of course, we need escalation plans; I myself was the case rapporteur for the suspension of Werner Christie's health report, who in time agreed that we should have it both for cancer care and in other areas, so we stand firm that we need a build-up. But, as I said in my previous reply, this does not mean that, as you build up both in the field of psychiatry, in the field of cancer and in other areas where we unfortunately have major shortcomings, you cannot give patients a right to go abroad and get help there if they want. Now I see clearly that it is not as easy for psychiatric patients to go abroad as for others. Too many people might find it difficult, but it'll now be up to the patients themselves to figure out. It has something to do with what I said about knowing what to do when you call something for patient rights. You have to use perspective, it has to be your own – the patient’s – assessment of what’s best for you here and now, which is the starting point, and not what we politicians, administrators and bureaucrats think serves patients the best. They are, in fact, able to exercise their own rights.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e596	Then the president gives the floor to Harald Hove.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e599	I thank you for the goodwill in ensuring that the Left too is given a line along the way in debates on these issues. If I understood Annelise Höegh correctly, she said that the Patient Rights Act would lead patients to the operating room, not to the courtroom. With that statement, Annelise Höegh places himself a little in an area that the Minister of Health, too, has been concerned about, that it is important not to make the hospital and health care a arena that makes a lot of use of its resources in legal cases and, to a large extent, lawyers. I have a certain desire to problem this a little bit, and it is not necessarily stated that I will be completely in line with the Minister of Health in all details either. You give the impression of wanting to introduce rights, and then you want to avoid legal proceedings. It becomes to me a certain contradiction, because that means that you want the good at the law and the things that belong to the justice system, namely rights, but then you don't want what becomes a natural consequence of it, namely that there will necessarily also have to be legal cases about the content of the rights. There's going to be a duplicate here that I think it's a little bit difficult to relate to. It will actually be my claim that Norwegian courts have made important contributions to Norwegian health and social law, among others. through the 1977 journal, and the Fusa judgment, on social services, from 1990, which have been involved in the development of the concept of rights. Finally, with regard to the difference in the ability of psychiatric patients and somatic patients to take advantage of treatment abroad, we are actually talking about priority distortions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e612	That distortion is already there today, unfortunately, to all overmeasures not only for psychiatric patients but also for chroniclers and others with complex disorders. Nevertheless – I must remind the majority – the same patient groups are asking for such a right-wing celebration as the Advance Party and the Right give them, and they are asking themselves, at least they are very disappointed, the right-wing attachment that the majority is in favour of. And then you can sit here on your high horse and say that patients don't understand their own best. They get to do that that they feel comfortable with it. When it comes to the fact that we want patients to be in the operating room and not in the courtroom, it may be that it's choosing the right thing, but that we get the bad thing, namely legal cases. But then I have to remind the representative Hove that, if I don't remember correctly, in today's setting says that yes, it may well happen that a rights fixation – and that applies to both of the alternatives to the right to necessary health care that we are discussing today – can lead to some legal cases. But then, hopefully, they'll have an impact, so that you don't have to repeat that process. The second thing I want to say is that the Right and Advance Party, with their proposal, wanted to add to a model where it would be the hospital that would have to respond if it exceeded the deadline that it had set itself. If a patient, who, on our proposal, will have an individual medically justified deadline, feels that the hospital is beyond that deadline, then it is the hospital that has to prove that it is not legally responsible for giving the patient that sum on the way to another hospital, which is, according to the law, our legal text. So I think that the situation Hove describes, where you can end up in the bad cases, will be the reality of the majority's proposals rather than the minority's.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e623	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e627	The centre party is pleased that we are now getting an overall law on patient rights that will help improve the patient's knowledge of his own rights. Such knowledge is important in order to strengthen the patient’s position in relation to the different healthcare services. All healthcare should be aimed at improving the overall situation of the individual, and this law leads, as we in the Center Party perceive, that the patient, and the patient's concern, comes to the centre. The Ministry and the Committee define ‘health care’ as prevention, diagnosis, treatment, health protection, rehabilitation, care and care — services provided by health professionals. I think it is important to stress that also help that cannot improve the situation but that does not make the situation worse is to call health care. Also according to this law, which according to the previous health law we were dealing with – the law on mental health protection – the relatives have a central role to play. Here, too, the patient should be allowed to join in and decide who will be his/her relative. The central party believes that it is very important that the patient’s right to participate is legalised, but this obviously requires voluntary action. Taking part in and choosing to take responsibility for your own health, for examination and treatment, can be very important for the outcome of treatment. This, along with a statutory right to information, is a rise in the status of the patient as an individual who deserves respect. It is important to establish that information is to be provided automatically and it is important for healthcare professionals to make sure that the information is actually received, understood and understood. In this context, I see a challenge in guiding all health professionals about the consequences of this law, not least in information and participation, so that this really becomes a reality. In the view of the Centre Party, the patient’s facilities for participation and complaints will be a quality assurance of health services. This law could therefore act as a positive incentive also to health professionals who are now becoming more aware of the fact that there are often more choices and that one does not necessarily have to choose the fastest and cheapest one. Perhaps it will now be considered more often than before what will be best: medication, intervention – Annelise Höegh would have sent patients to the operating room, I hope that we will get as little as possible there – or referral to another service, for example. for physiotherapist, chiropractor or psychologist. The right of access to the file is also important and needs to be seen in the context of the general right of information. When the patient is unable to take care of his/her interests, the immediate family member shall be entitled to have access to the record. The patient's ability to recover and improve will be improved through this, in the view of the Centre Party. It is also good that the patient representative system is now legalised. Patients’ representatives will work to protect the patient’s interests, and this scheme will be a sufficient means of improving the quality of healthcare. I compare the law we adopt today with a work instruction, and my experience is: If you have a vague work instructions, it can often be a little poorly done work. I think this work instruction we are adopting today is clear, although perhaps not everyone agrees with it, and I think it will be a good prerequisite for the right prioritisation to be done, and that the most important tasks will be carried out first and foremost. This law will undoubtedly raise the level of our healthcare. I see here a clear and logical context: information leads to insight, insight leads to understanding, understanding leads to better susceptibility to health care and a better understanding of what is right. It leads again to a better overall, better quality of life for the individual and a better society all over the world. In fact, I see that the fact that patients are given the right to know and understand – through legalisation – can make the disease process not only a negative experience, but also help to strengthen the patient in total. The patient is being trained, and there is something that you can benefit from in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e655	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e658	I heard that the representative Kvalbukt at the end of his post compared this bill with a work instructions. I guess that's one of the things that's the problem, that you're not fully capable of caring for patients' interests as this law is formulated today. I will be allowed to comment on the following to the representative Kvalbukt: In § 2-4 Right to choose a hospital, the right to choose a hospital is legalised as long as the hospital is at the same level of treatment. But I have some problems with the discrimination that will become part of the patients in Utkant-Norway as a result of this, since it is stated in the introductory part and in the comments of the Committee, other than the Advance Party and the Right, that travel expenses are assumed to be shared between the patient and the public. This will mean that if you live in central strata with several alternatives, a good one comes out of it financially for travel expenses. However, if one lives in the district and has a long way to go to alternative offers, it could result in high expenditures related to the use of this right. Does the representative of the Central Party feel that it is right to discriminate against patients from the districts versus those living in the central districts, financially if they use the same rights? Is this good central party policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e667	I would like to thank Mr Nesvik for his reply. The first thing he had in mind was that he did not think the comparison with a work instruction was good. I think it's good. The person who is given a work instruction knows in advance what department he or she has applied for work in. And in the laws we've adopted earlier this year, for example. in the Health Care Professional Act, it is also established that each operator shall be responsible for his/her own service. I didn't think the Progress Party belonged to those who would go away from personal responsibility. Similarly, the public obligation to help is laid down in the laws that we have adopted in the past. So I think that with the supplement we get today, we get a good work instruction. As far as injustice is concerned, first of all, I would like to say that I reject the statement that justice is equal to equality, and also that increased distance necessarily means increased travel expenses. It depends on the way you travel. But at the same time, I would say that I see nothing in this law that says how much the patient himself will pay when he or she chooses to travel to a hospital other than the nearest one. As far as I understand, it's up to the department to make a distribution of this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e676	The centre party belongs to the majority of those who are in favour of the statutory right to health care within the limits set by the capacity. I perceived the representative Kvalbukt your way that she thought it was superfluous. In the law on secondary education, we have a statutory right for everyone between 16 and 19 years of age for school provision. Why does the representative of Kvalbukt believe that it is both possible and right to grant such a categorical right to each school place between 16 and 19 years of age, whereas it is not necessary or proper to grant patients a corresponding right? Would the logic not suggest that the Centre Party should also contribute to the rights attaching in respect of the right to the school place, reserved ‘within the limits set by the capacity’?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e683	I know that according to Stortingen's regulations, you don't really have the right to flirt in here, but at least I had to smile. I thought it was a bit of a nice line. I suddenly saw that I needed to be inserted to operate my left kidney. Unfortunately, there was no capacity available, but I could operate my right knee instead. The comparison with the right to secondary school services is actually like this. There's a lot about the school rating for everyone between the ages of 16 and 19 that I disagree with, and that I could say a lot about. We were not going to have a school debate, but I have to say that it is not satisfactory for someone who wants to go to school in mechanical engineering, to get an offer for a place in the general field of study. I personally know a lot of these examples. With regard to the limitations we have set, I would say, yes, the constraints are on capacity, money, availability, what knowledge we have, and how far the research has come. And then I would like to remind you of the following words: «Where there is nothing, even the emperor has lost his right». A guarantee can never go beyond what is available. So the question of whether I think this is satisfactory. As politicians, we can say along the way that this is satisfactory now, but we must constantly work towards even better goals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower.ana.ud813e701	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The time for the morning meeting is up. The President will now remind you that the Grand Meeting is being held at 4 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox After the summit, Odelstinget will continue its negotiations.
