ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e62	The representative, Inger Stolt-Nielsen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: André Kukkestad For Buskerud County: Frank Willy Larsen For Oslo: Hallvard Aamlid For the counties of Troms: Arne Bergland For the South-Trundellag County: Michael Momyr For Eastfold County: Inger Lise Bräkke Three permit applications are available: from May Britt Vihovde on sick leave from 25 May onwards and until further notice from the Workers' Party Group on sick leave for the representative Jørgen Kosmo from 25 May onwards and until further notice from the representative Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen on leave from 27 May until 31 May to take part as an observer for the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe during the parliamentary elections in Armenia. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Hordaland County: Thorbjørn MerkesdalFor Telemark County: Marthe Shearing LundFor Vestfold County: Karin Lian3. Thorbjørn Merkesdal is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets the representative of May Britt Vihovde.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e143	Thorbjørn Merkesdal and Karin Lian are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e148	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e153	I allow myself to propose Ursula Evje and Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e158	Ursula Evje and Øyvind Korsberg are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Ursula Evje and Øyvind Korsberg are considered unanimously elected presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e175	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e184	The value of this debate cannot, in my opinion, be what it should have been. The reason for this is that the treatment of such an extensive issue as public health in Norway, based on the statement by the Minister of Health, is in the middle of a hectic spring session. It has not been possible – at least not for me – to go to the depth of this entire large matter. Also for staggering representatives, 24 hours have gone by, and some of these hours we also have to stay in bed. In a country like Norway, we have a lot to point out in terms of public health. We have a quality and professional health care system and an inclusive attitude for those affected by health problems, both physically and mentally. However, the lack of capacity, in particular in the specialist health service, has led to long-term health cows. The question is therefore whether we are willing to give priority to the health and care tasks that our society needs, high enough in relation to other societal tasks. The Progress Party has always believed that health and care should be given priority. The Minister of Health stressed several times in his statement on 10 May the strong emphasis placed by the Government on the prevention of health work, and there is no doubt that this is essential. Preventive work, however, is easily a luxury that we cannot afford when the condition of our other health care system does not allow for this. As long as we have long queues in health care, it is difficult to give priority to prevention. It must be right first to take care of those who are waiting in the queues. This is why it is imperative to ensure that our healthcare system has funding and an organisation that makes queues an unknown phenomenon, so that resources can be used to strengthen prevention efforts in order to reduce acute curative needs. The introduction of the input-based funding system makes it possible to achieve this goal, but then we must not undermine the legitimacy of the system through unclear legislation and unclear guidelines for economic compensation. Hospitals have to be paid for what they do, fully. Societal trends also control the health status of the population in many ways. Therefore, it is important that the political system contributes to positive development, but political governance must not unduly affect the choice and freedom of the population. It is important to provide information and training that allows individuals to make their own decisions and choices. Priority should be given to policy-making. Information on proper diet is a fundamental factor in developing good health, but if the individual chooses away the possibility of healthy lifestyles, this must be his privilege, even if it leads to a shorter life. The State Health Authority is an important element of prevention, but unfortunately the necessary response options are not provided that could have strengthened prevention efforts. When patients in hospitals and institutions, e.g. are subjected to poor and incorrect nutrition, causing deterioration in health or the development of new symptoms and disorders. In nursing homes, we have seen examples of severe electrolyte disturbances due to insufficient fluid intake. Such relationships in our institutions must be reacted to by avoiding a deterioration in the health of our institutional residents. Over the years, expectations as to which conditions can be cured have grown and new disorders have become apparent. The development of mental disorders and musculoskeletal disorders has exploded in recent years. It is natural to believe that this development is closely related to the development of society elsewhere. Several are lonely, the social networks are weakened, soon all women are double-working. This has also led to increased stress on the health care system. Many of the sufferings that this has caused are not easy to cure today, and very many people are shifting to disability and a passive life, which does not contribute to better health either physically or mentally. It is therefore important to give greater emphasis to rehabilitation and retraining so that more people can take an active part in professional and social activities. This is also desirable in limiting the cost of unearned retirement, and rather the means should be used to activise, for example. employment training and training contracts with the employer. Developments in the age structure of the population in the next century will lead to new challenges for health and care services. Loneliness has become a serious public disease in the older classes of the year. Too strong a commitment to nursing homes in the care of the elderly can reinforce this public health problem. It is a common perception that health expenditure will only continue to increase, and with the intended demographic development this will lead to increasing problems. However, there is a strong trend in both professional and technical health professionals leading to less extensive interventions, simpler methods and less costly treatments. In combination with a stronger focus on prevention, it should be possible to develop our healthcare in the desired direction, with the removal of the queues and an informed population taking care of their own health. The Progress Party considers the new development of biotechnology as a threat to prevention health. It is therefore important that a change be made to the Biotechnology Act that allows for outreach genetic guidance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e210	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for a useful and comprehensive presentation on public health. In the Labour Party, we are particularly pleased that the Minister of Health stresses the importance of prevention and health promotion. Both for each of us and society as a whole, prevention is better than repair. The annual presentations remind us that life expectancy in the country is generally high, and that most people experience their own health status as good. Before a person comes to grips with shortcomings and challenges, these are important facts to take with him. The pillars of health care are primary health services, and I want to highlight the good work being done at health centres, where one has outstanding opportunities both to prevent disease and to detect disease early. Strong primary doctors play a crucial role in the safety and health of the population and as doorkeepers and gatekeepers of specialist health services. We attach great importance to the fact that all people in this country will have access to a permanent doctor. We know this is particularly important for the elderly, for families with children and for people with complex disorders. In the fixed medical system, patients will be able to choose a doctor and not vice versa. In this way, the fixed medical system is an important part of a patient-focused healthcare system. Special attention must be paid to the medical coverage in the districts. Here I think one would be wise to listen to some of the doctor's suggestions, among others. other by building stronger centres of competence. Otherwise, a large number of medical facilities can be released at hospitals by releasing the doctors from office work. I now assume that the Medical Association is working constructively to find good solutions, so that the Storting's decision on the permanent scheme can finally be implemented. The size has unanimously adopted earmarked escalation plans to provide care for neglected and vulnerable groups of patients. This applies, inter alia, to: Carcinogenicity and mental health protection. I have recorded that this has triggered a debate on local autonomy and freedom. I can understand that, but I would like to remind you that both the current government that has promoted these plans, and the Stortinget have carefully assessed and balanced the needs of municipalities for freedom and the need for worthy care of these vulnerable groups. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Health to help ring the ring for commitment action plans adopted by the Stortinget, in areas where it has proved in practice that there is a need for national follow-up and standards. The World Health Organization, with its current leader and our former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland at the head, has put the fight against tobacco smoking high on the agenda. It's not for no reason. The adverse effects of tobacco are very well documented and are one of the main risk and cause factors for a number of serious diseases and early death. Despite high charges and strict regulations, we have not been particularly successful in reducing tobacco consumption here to land. Our neighbouring country Sweden has succeeded much better, and I believe that there is good reason to assess their measures with heavy stakes on regionally based smoking weaning services. In the mind-creating work, we know that what we do is more important than what we say. I think it is worrying that the country's prime minister is regularly seeing cigarette smoking on the first pages of the newspapers. The signal is that it's cool to smoke. The 1999 public health report shows that there are in particular two disease groups that point to growth in sick leave and disability. It's muscle and skeletal disorders and mental disorders. Here, the evidence and knowledge base seems weak when a reader reads the 1999 Public Health Report. Women seem to be in the majority of those affected by these disorders, and as reported in the report on women’s health, many women feel that they are not taken seriously in the health system. Unfortunately, the 1999 Public Health Report does not contribute to upgrading the status of these disorders. On page 77, mental disorders are referred to as ‘a significant and costly public health burden’. Here one can really talk about carrying stones to the burden, and I would ask that such a mention of mental disorders be taken out in later reports. The term for muscle and skeletal disorders includes:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The health system is confused as to how best to prevent and treat these plagues.’ It is suggested that a change in the reporting culture may be at the root of the growth of these disorders. This, I think, is an attempt to minimize, which at least I want to distance myself from. I believe the demands of both success and efficiency lead to significant physical and mental stress on people today. Like nature, humans also have a limit of tolerance. People are often said to be 'burned out'. Personally, I like better Hans Olav Tongesvik's expression "lost" better. This means that people can fill up the vessel again and build up new forces. I believe it is essential to understand that each individual has a tolerance limit that must not be exceeded, and that working life and social life are so arranged that everyone can participate, and that everyone can have the opportunity to come back even after illness. In the wake of the general development of society and the way we live, the major challenges facing health policy require considerable attention in the future. For the Workers' Party, good public health is not only achieved through health policy in isolation. The general health situation of the population is also largely a reflection of the overall social policy, of how society is organised, and of the values and attitudes of our society. From such an overall social point of view, it can be said that: A lack of attention to the health situation of the immigrant population is at best a sign of a lack of integration.Increasing sick leave and unemployable retirement tell us something about the working environment and working conditions.Strength links between health, education and income levels, as we see in Norway, are evidence of the need to reconcile living conditions. Many psychiatric health disorders can be traced back to a competitive and stressful society. Serious eating disorders in girls down at the age of 12-13 tell us about the view of women in society.The large number of traffic-killed and traffic-damaged people tell us about the place of the car in today's society.Some problems with drug abuse and crime are caused by not everyone being able to go to school and work. Important efforts for the health status of the population can and must therefore also be carried out outside health policy. It's about building a society with better opportunities for everyone, where the equivalency and human dignity are put in the high seat, and where the individual is given the opportunity to take greater responsibility for himself and for his fellow human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e278	The two main threats to public health in Norway today are tobacco and alcohol. So the greatest health risks for Norwegian society are self-inflicted. It was therefore right for the Minister of Health to focus on the prevention aspects in his statement on public health. Preventing disease and health damage will easily be a secondary priority, as such resources are required to treat today’s patients. In addition, some claim that the increased number of years of life you can win will only lead to a greater burden on the health care system, because this will mean that people will be sick for years before they die. But new studies show that a healthy life with regard to smoking, obesity and exercise not only leads people to live longer, but also to live better, that they are less ill, and sick for a short time toward the end of life. So it's a personal, social, economic and health gain in preventing unhealthy health habits. Smoking kills more than 3.5 million people every year, and only in Norway does one person die every hour of the day because of tobacco. In three years, worldwide smoking deaths will triple to 10 million, and in 20 years, every three deaths among adults will be caused by smoking. Since not all people smoke, this means that approx. each other smoke will die as a result of smoking. So it's not without reason that the World Health Organization has also declared war on tobacco. I am pleased with the increased commitment of the Minister of Health in this area, also economically, but there is also a need for action outside traditional health policy. The journal of the Norwegian Medical Association, under the heading «Tobakksindustrie – the main enemy of the health care system», writes: ‘While health services with resource problems are working hard to prevent and treat disease, the tobacco industry is making a great deal of money to sell addictive substances that spread suffering and death.’ This situation is really absurd. In both tobacco and alcohol, users pay with money, life and health. The tobacco and drug industries kill many of their best customers. It depends on kidney recruitment, and we have to stop it, for example. with actions aimed at children and young people. But the tobacco and drug industries also depend on profits. I have difficulty believing that someone will produce, sell or market health damage to idealistic motives. Death's cremates require profit. The alcohol has, in my opinion, come unearthed in the shadow of tobacco as a public health problem. The World Health Organization has fourth-place alcohol abuse as a cause of shortened and burdensome lives. In the first three places, depression, tuberculosis and road accidents occur — conditions that also have strong links to alcohol abuse. The same applies to other self-inflicted damage, which comes in the next place in the listing. Alcohol consumption in Norway rose last year for the sixth consecutive year. The adverse effects of alcohol are now so striking that even France’s supposedly most serious newspaper, Le Monde, exclaims the alcohol to the enemy number one. There is a need for strong public information efforts, especially in view of the strong market interest in presenting alcohol as a product with allegedly positive health effects. That's the same thing for alcohol as for tobacco: if we get a profit away, a lot is won. The loss of the drug industry is the gain of public health.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e300	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for a thorough and good report on public health. This is a big and important topic, which it is not possible to say very much about in a few minutes. Health policy in recent years has been largely not about health but about disease, hospitals, waiting lists and health services. A number of necessary reforms have been adopted and launched and economic resources have increased considerably. This will provide more treatment, but there is still a lot to be done before all those who need it receive the necessary health care. A good health policy is important, but a good health policy is not least important. The goal is to have as few patients as possible, and that people experience that they have a good life. One of the prerequisites for good health is that some of us feel that we are useful and that there are some who are asking for our help. It involves using policy instruments to balance the differences in quality of life, disease and early death between different groups of the population in different parts of the country. It involves promoting the quality of life, participation and mastery of the individual. I am pleased that the Minister for Health has so much emphasis on prevention and health promotion in his presentation. It is also in line with the Storting's will in terms of preventive health work. I agree with the Minister of Health that it is now necessary to focus more on important choices and dilemmas in the field of health. The Minister for Health, in his presentation, announced his own communication on health policy at the turn of the millennium, discussing the dangers of a sorting society, the possibilities of technologies and the limits of health care. That's good and necessary. It is through breaks and debate on values and priorities that the perspective on public health can be put seriously on the political agenda. The development of medical technology, and especially genetic engineering, is and will be one of the major challenges that will require ethical reflection and wisdom. It has given us many and new opportunities to prevent and treat disease. The challenge will be how to manage this knowledge for the benefit of individuals and society. The aim must be to ensure that knowledge is used positively and that the standards and values of individuals and society are not violated. The new possibilities confront us with difficult choices between the technologically possible and ethically sound. Right-wing believes that it must be the ethics to limit technology, and not the other way around. When genetic testing can detect facilities for heritable diseases for which treatment is not available, when genetic defects can be detected by means of foetal water diagnostics, and when people who are healthy are informed that they are disposed of for serious diseases, what choice do we make as individuals and communities? How do the ever-increasing possibilities for getting knowledge about the disease disposition affect the experience we have of our own health? Is it certain that more information will provide us with better health and quality of life? It can spread anxiety and uncertainty to a large group of people. For example, outreach genetic activity may pose a threat to health. This can result in people becoming less able to master their own lives, because they become dependent on the health care system, not only when they are ill, but also to get constant assurances that they are healthy. Focusing on risk may become a risk in itself if it results in anxiety and experience of ‘infirmity’. Measures to reduce uncertainty can help undermine our ability to live with the uncertainty that is and will always be linked to being human. Occurrence of genetic activity and the monitoring of our genes help to clarify the distinction between prevention and treatment. The borderline between what is healthy or sick or hard to treat will be pushed far into the healthy part of the population. This is a serious warning signal, and I hope this is a question the Health Minister will address in his announced communication on health policy in the next millennium. If we are to have opportunities to improve the health status of the population and achieve the objective of promoting mental and physical health and preventing and protecting from disease, it requires action and efforts from many teams, from healthcare, from patients and patient organisations, from non-governmental organisations, from politicians and other social sectors, and not least from each of us. Without thinking about society as a whole, we will never achieve the goal of health for all. In health policy as in other choices, we have been able to choose short-term solutions to lifelong problems and challenges. Health services have expanded in an incredible way over the past ten years. One of the explanations is that knowledge and opportunities have increased, and that the development of medical technology has led to today's treatment and cure of diseases we couldn't do a few years ago. But the most important explanation lies outside the field of medicine — in society and in the individual of us. Overall, the population is healthier, but many have problems in taking over their lives, their family and their work. So we're feeling better, but we're doing worse. Diseases associated with cohabitation, cooperation and society are increasing. We see an increasing trend towards the medicalisation of life and everyday problems. There is also an increase in the lack of stability and security of individuals and of the population. These include life crimes, violence, crime, drug problems, eating disorders, loneliness, mental disorders, fear of alienation and intolerance. These are major challenges. A few decades ago, we had a simpler view of the concept of health. The one who wasn't sick was healthy. But then the World Health Organisation came with an extended definition of health: ‘Health is not just the absence of disease but a complete physical, mental and social well-being.’ By this definition, certainly not many of us have our health! The UN Secretary-General has called for the spiritual dimension to be included in the definition. In any case, it will not be easier, either for individuals or for society, to achieve the objective that Norway has achieved through the WHO on health for all by 2000. We are not there today, and we can well see that if we get there at all, it is far ahead. Some small things about health and life probably most of us will have to live with – including the fact that we're just people at good and bad, who don't always make the reasonable choices. American social scientist Aaron Wildavsky launched the so-called 10-90 rule in 1977, i.e. that healthcare only determines 10 pst. of the health of the population, while the rest is outside health care, in social conditions in general, in living conditions and in lifestyle, which we have been dealing with. There is now a generally accepted assessment of the limitations of healthcare and medicine. Therefore, greater emphasis needs to be placed on precisely the health-promoting and preventive perspectives. The main areas mentioned by the Minister of Health in his presentation are also widely agreed in the Grand Duchy. But the perfect example of prevention and health promotion is to be cared for and cared for before being born. As a result, prevention efforts against pregnant women are important and need to be further strengthened. The outcome of pregnancy is not only relevant to the child. It is also of great importance to the woman and family. A healthy lifestyle, awareness of own resources and mastery will also strengthen the relationship and parenting role and be health-promoting and disease-prevention. Breast cancer is by far the most common form of cancer among women in the western world, and in Norway more than 2,000 women are affected each year. The decision to extend mammography screening is a very important prevention measure, and many women's lives can be saved in this way. The aim is therefore to give this offer to all women throughout the country. Priority must be given to research and development activities related to the prevention of osteoarthritis. This is a serious health problem which primarily affects women and which reduces the quality of life and increases mortality. How we live affects our health, which others have been involved in. Accidental diets, physical inactivity, alcohol and tobacco use and other drugs are major causes of morbidity and mortality. I have noticed the great commitment of the Health Minister in these areas, especially in the area of alcohol and tobacco. There is no doubt that the adverse effects of abuse are serious, and society can reduce both alcohol and tobacco abuse through awareness raising and mobilization. It's going to be society's task, but at the end, it's how we want to live, the individual's choice. The Health Minister explains that he will further document the relationship between alcohol and health and its impact on health resources. I would like to ask the Minister of Health to clarify this further, because it is not in this that the Minister of Health will assess whether people who have alcohol-related health damage will have to pay for it themselves? Health cannot create health for everyone and cannot solve all of our problems. But we need to know what's happening, and what we can do, in interaction with each other and our common environment, in order to be able to act with reason and humanity. Knowledge is essential. Preventive health work is an expression of humanity and interest in getting a good and long life. We are facing major challenges in improving public health. The basic philosophy of prevention and health promotion must focus on active participation, on mastering and controlling your own situation and on taking responsibility for your own health. Individuals must be able to define their own problems and find solutions. People's own resources must be brought into focus, not primarily their problems. Taking care of your own health is a act of solidarity so that health care resources can be used on those who really need it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e345	The Minister of Health's statement on public health provided a good basis for a health policy debate here in the United Kingdom. The health situation at the turn of the millennium must be said to be good. In the last century, life expectancy at birth has risen sharply, with an increase for women over 24 years of age and 21 years for men. A quarter of this increase can be explained by decreases in infant mortality. This trend also has a positive trend in the 1990s, where there is a further sharp decrease in the number of people dying from cancer. In the mid-1990s, eight out of ten assessed their own health as good or very good. At the same time, seven out of ten replied that they had diseases or suffering of a more lasting nature. Such a registration may seem contradictory, but may reflect more – as the Minister of Health also pointed out – the fact that some illnesses and disabilities are not considered health problems and that people’s perception of health is much more than the absence of disease. This does not mean that Norway has no major challenges and problems in the field of health policy. Health policy is a wide area, and the Council of State should be commended for his ability and willingness to see the whole. In the past, on such an occasion and in such a debate as this, I have suggested that we in the Storting should have a general debate in which we put man in the centre and debated the whole and the context of social development, in particular in terms of well-being, health and the environment. I believe that all the Scientific Committees of the United Kingdom and their members could have benefited greatly from such a general debate, and perhaps, at least for some time, it could have provided more comprehensive solutions and less sectoral thinking. The Health Minister himself called for an overall debate on value and strategy choices in which one can focus on key health challenges and choices. Here are the challenges in a series of ways: opportunities for technology and the limitations of healthcare, the risk of a sorting society, economic considerations of calculation rather than welfare priorities and the strong impact of business forces. It is therefore gratifying that the Government will present a major communication on key health value issues. Such a communication can create the debate – and the breadth of the debate – we need to be equipped for an even better health development in the coming century. It's as well known that one should never say, or be too sure about the future. In the health sector, developments are now so rapid that caution is needed not only to predict but also to release all the new things that are coming without the critical assessment that is just in an ethical and valuable assessment. Researchers now claim to the serious British newspaper The Sunday Times that in the middle of the next century, life could be extended by an average of 50 years. This shall be possible through genetic engineering, organ cloning and hormonal manipulation. The consequences of such a development I must leave behind now, because of the measured time I have, but I must really say that it calls for a debate on ethics and values. Current health policy challenges, as they are experienced for individuals, are characterised by the capacity situation in relation to needs and demand. This is an important and serious area of health policy, but must not be overshadowed by issues such as ethics, quality and improved health status through societal design and behaviour. The social and economic differences we have in our society are still fundamental causes of different health conditions. Physical, psychosocial and material conditions affect our health. Therefore, it is important and necessary to raise the health and well-being aspect on the agenda of the entire societal debate. An important step in that direction will be the Government's communication on the balancing of living conditions. It is also positive that the Government will take a closer look at the health difference between genders in Norway and that a focus is on this through improved data base and analysis, in order to improve knowledge and understanding of the relationship between the living conditions of women and men and health. The Minister of Health was very concerned with prevention, and with the opportunities and responsibilities of society and individuals in this respect. Reductions in smoking and drug use are important areas in such a context, and once again we need to focus more on the cause of the developments we see today. We need to give children and young people, not least, a life situation and an attitude towards their own lives and their own function of life that does not include the flow of reality through drug use in such a way that it is health-damaging and life-threatening. Dietary and physical activity are also important conditions for good health. A better organised society where there is time and opportunities for physical activity is therefore important that we take into account in our societal planning. The diet is characterized more and more by foods that have been added to substances that we know are harmful, but we do not yet know the long-term effects fully. It is therefore important that we have and continue to develop a restrictive and strict approach to various additives, genetically modified food and food irradiation. The Minister for Health pointed out the challenge by looking at health and health policies as a whole. I would like to support this and stress that, among other things, Mental health and psychosocial problems need to be given greater attention in the future. It is also important that it is dealt with from the global level to the local level. International agreements and joint programmes are important, while knowledge and awareness can contribute locally to better services and deliver goods. I am pleased, finally, to say that the Minister of Health pointed to an area for which I have spoken warmly, namely the place and role of health centres in preventive and health promotion work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e381	In my view, the Health Minister's statement contains a number of interesting and good considerations. It will be absolutely impossible in five minutes to get into all the aspects of the Minister of Health's previous speech; so I just have to bring some out. I fully agree with the points made at the level of prevention that have already been raised by a number of speakers. This applies to both smoking and alcohol. In addition, I think it is a strong emphasis on the importance of general prevention work – which is important and which it is important to continue. The Minister of Health stressed that the Government does. In some areas, we can see that practical policy is moving in a different direction. I would particularly like to highlight here the HIV prevention work, where we have seen cuts over the last few years, and where the risk of spreading infection among the population is still present. It is important not to reduce the prevention work in this area. One more thing that the Minister of Health drew out is the sorting society. We see how increased specialisation in healthcare makes it difficult for many in the population to be informed, need guidance and advice on how to take care of public health, and which bodies it would be right to contact when they get sick. SV believes that the fixed medical system will be a good step in the right direction, both as a consultant and as a door opener for other services. We look forward to that arrangement coming into place, and hope that we won't have any further postponement of it. What is also seen with regard to the sorting society is how private insurance companies become increasingly involved, and how insurance companies sort out the customers they want and the ones they don't want through their criteria. The groups that are excluded are usually those who already have a reduced health or, after that, those who are at risk of it, among others. in the form of genetic tests and other means of predicting disease. This is a very unfortunate development, especially if there is a parallel reduction in the provision of public health services, so that there is a real increase in sorting and an increase in the diversity of supply among the population. This is also true in relation to the increasing privatisation of healthcare where the market is going to be raw. It is obvious that it will work in such a way that the geographical differences increase, and that it will be the wallet that determines what offer you will get. There is a development SV will be strongly opposed. Several have mentioned – and I am pleased – genetic testing. There was an article in Der Spiegel on May 17th. which deals with genetic testing and the experience gained in Germany. The title was: «Fragwertiger Siegezug der Gentests», i.e.: dubious victory for the genetic tests. Special attention is drawn to the fact that the knowledge of defects in genetic material can mean the death of the affected person. Experience has now been gained in Huntington’s chorea, and how to make sure that you want to develop the disease reduces the quality of life of the individual without being able to treat it. Similarly, in women who have taken genetic tests related to breast cancer, positive responses to this type of test can create considerable uncertainty and uncertainty. Some women have asked to have healthy breasts removed by fear of developing breast cancer later. In my and SV's view, the majority in Stortinget have taken too lightly on the danger associated with genetic testing. I am pleased with the attitude taken by the Government, but it is very important that we do not have a glare associated with genetic testing in Norway that allows us to have the same type of negative experience as that described by Germany. The new health laws create significant new expectations. It is important that politicians do not create expectations that you are unable to meet. Unfortunately, examples of this can be seen, for example: from this pulpit, when relatively massive criticisms of care services in municipalities related to care for the elderly are made. It is obvious that some of the services need significant improvement and, as politicians, we have a common responsibility to make improvements. A lot of the health professionals will experience the criticism that comes from the Stockholm pulpit, as personal criticism directed at health professionals, who perhaps within a narrow financial framework do what they can to improve the offer, and who say that it needs to be improved. It is important that criticism in this area is nuanced. Finally, I would like to say that the overall objectives must be the most important one for politicians, and that we do not go into an untimely detailed management where we also become representatives of lobbyists, for example linked to the pharmaceutical industry, as we have seen trends here in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e396	I want to start by commending the Minister of Health for the good presentation on the topic of public health, and I agree with him that when you look at the state of public health, you have to look at many factors and look beyond health. The fact-finding report by the State Institute for Public Health also shows this. It also shows that we have made a lot of mistakes in identifying health-promoting or pathogen-causing factors. As politicians, we are committed to facilitating good living conditions in the country. Many, perhaps most, of the decisions we make have an impact on people's living conditions. Although we can establish that we have it safe and sound in this country, you can get the impression that the health status is not as good as you could expect, and that you are still getting reports of increased disease incidences. This might show that some of our decisions also have unintended consequences. It is therefore important that we identify these consequences. Disease is a natural consequence of our living, disease cannot be abolished. Nevertheless, one has to ask how much disease needs to exist and how to keep ourselves healthy as far as possible. Many researchers claim that our health system is itself a pathogen. This has so far been a little bit conscious of. It's important that we evaluate and focus more on this. It is said in the public health report that, in order to have good mental health, it is important to have adequate self-esteem, good social networking and the experience of being able to influence your own life situation. Since we know today that there is a close relationship between body and soul, it can be assumed that these factors can work in general to promote health. Much of the preventive health work must then go on building up adequate self-esteem, teaching people to associate with each other and facilitating a school and work environment where people feel that they have control of their life situation as far as possible. The report points out that managers have better health than workers. There are, of course, several reasons for this, but better self-control in the work situation may well be one. We also know that women complain more often about poor health than men, and that among women there are more workers than managers. Can this be the explanation that women experience poorer health? Preventive health work will then become an issue of equality. The fact that health and disease are still so unequally socially distributed is surprising and partly incomprehensible, especially the fact that this difference is actually greatest in Norway and Sweden. We also see that the differences apply before birth and life out, and are closely related to education. Providing children and young people with the best possible conditions of growth and education is therefore very important in the prevention of health work. Proper and important action must be taken against the most disadvantaged groups in order to correct the differences in living conditions, and thus health status. We agree on this in principle in Norway, yet there is disagreement when it comes to which measures to take or how far one is willing to go to correct the differences. In any case, one must include the specific priorities of the target groups in this work. The public health report states that we will not achieve the goal of reducing social differences by at least 20 pst. as against 2000. It is not even known with certainty what direction development has taken in the 1990s, as research in this area is scarce. The left considers this to be a priority area in the years to come. Attention is drawn to the importance of having a monitoring system to monitor the development of social differences in health and known risk factors for disease over time. This is in line with the work on national health indicators and will be very useful.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e416	No other sector spends as much money and has as many service users as the health sector. The numbers tell us that we spend up to 60 billion kroner for health purposes, for example, by treating together approx. 3,7 million people in hospitals in hospital during hospitalisation and outpatient treatment, and in about 16 million visits to the primary health service. In such a perspective, it is important for the Workers' Party to stress that the objectives and instruments chosen for our future healthcare must lead to equal and equitable availability of quality and equivalent services to the entire population, irrespective of residence and personal economy. We believe that we need to facilitate patients' better transparency and more influence over their own situation. An analysis of future challenges shows that the need for and demand for healthcare will increase, inter alia. because the picture of the disease and the age composition of the population will change. New and improved medical and medical-technical methods will provide increased opportunities for early and improved diagnosis, treatment and recovery. Illness is also highly dependent on what we call lifestyle diseases. Therefore, good public health depends on our success in an interaction where the individual, through knowledge and attitudes, does something with his or her own way of life, and where the public health service is doing its job. Measures and instruments must remain at the bottom of justice, quality and equivalence requirements in the provision of services. Therefore, the Workers' Party signals, and suggests, three strategies for future actions: 1st@item: inlistbox New challenges require increased resources2. Clearer and stronger management of healthcare3. Improving cooperation and coordination at all levels and levels of healthcare In an improved public health, prevention work will be central, and this is demanding, among other things. because the fight for demarcated resources is often won by the more acute and repairable health services. Many people’s suffering and diseases often have a slightly unclear causal relationship based on long-term influence and development. I mention here as examples of musculoskeletal disorders and mental disorders. This means that a person must have strong attention, among other things. the working environment in a broad sense. Social and economic differences give rise to different health outcomes. Prevention and health promotion is dependent on the ability to describe inequalities in the health status of different groups. There is little reason to believe that genetic differences could explain the differences you see between urban areas in, for example: Oslo. Roughly sketched is more likely to be faced with conditions that are mainly limited to environmental conditions, including lifestyles and lifestyles. This should mean that one needs to target the measures more, and one needs to give prevention measures a much more local anchor than has so far been the case. It clearly means that much more resources need to be made available locally. Having said this, it is obvious to me that many of the measures need to be nationally anchored and included in a national strategy. Dietary and exercise seems essential for public health. I refer here to the Norwegian cancer plan, where it is assumed that approx. 35 pst. the cancers are caused by unlucky diets. No longer argues that tobacco use is the single factor that most of all destroys people's health. We have convincing evidence. Now it is most urgent to prevent children and young people from smoking. For this reason, they need to act as a force for these groups in an interaction between parents, school, municipal health authorities and the national level. The picture is really depressing: There is virtually no decline in the smoking habits of the adult population, except in pregnant women. However, it is gratifying that we reach both Norway and, among other things, Norway. In the United States, legal proceedings are beginning to take place that are responsible for the health damage caused by tobacco use by the tobacco industry. Abuse of alcohol is a very serious health and social problem, where any alleged positive effects are not related to the adverse effects. The strategy we have followed in Norway for a long time, trying to keep the average consumption of the population as low as possible, needs to be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e470	Health is the ability to master everyday demands, Professor Peter F. Hjort has said, and I think for my part that it is a better definition of health than the global philosophy of the World Health Organization. It expresses personal responsibility for one's own health, which must be at the bottom of all preventive public health work. But we also have a responsibility for each other in the network and community of which we are part. It is also a public health policy. And last but not least, it is a social responsibility to put the prevention of ill health on the agenda in all the contexts in which one affects public health, and in which the representative Sjøli was involved, it is mainly in areas other than the healthcare itself. The priority of prevention is not self-evident. It requires clear political choices over a long period of time. It is difficult to give priority to prevention in health policy, because few people thank us as politicians for preventing disease in their case. It is true that very much of what we are going to achieve through public health policy is the absence of sickness and absence of harm — and it is not always as easy to document. This is precisely why it is important that we present this as an important priority in all health work. I therefore believe that prevention should be on a waiting list until all waiting lists are gone, there will hardly be any particular of it. Prevention will lead to fewer sick days, prevention will lead to shorter waiting lists, and prevention will lead, above all, to more people getting help sooner and less suffering for individuals. That's why prevention, which is a red thread, goes through the health plans that the Government has presented to the Stortinget, and that I gladly agree with the representative Eyeågen that we're already calling about these health plans, and I'm glad that the Stortinget is doing it too. The main efforts of the Government are physical activity and diet. I mention as a practical example of what is happening now, that in the agricultural agreement that was handed over to the Stortinget today, 7 million is set aside. kr within the agricultural agreement to promote fruit and vegetables at school. Similarly, the Council of State for Nutrition and Physical Activity is engaged in targeted work against the labour market, both in terms of physical activity and in terms of fruit and vegetables. And there are many good examples of employers who take this seriously, because they see that there is a good investment in their own employees. As far as tobacco is concerned, I would like to inform you that in a short time I will be sending to the hearing a renewed and reinforced strategy to meet the challenge we face in this area, which has not become less in recent years. It's going to follow up better the laws and rules that we already have. It may be a matter of assessing penalties in relation to the placing on the market of tobacco products, and it may be appropriate to consider penalties in order to improve the effectiveness of compliance with the tobacco advertising ban in the Tobacco Injury Act, for example. At the same time, action needs to be taken on a broad front in relation to the attitude-creating work. I can assure the representative, Sjéli, that I do not intend to cause self-inflicted health damage to increased self-payments. But I think it is important to better document the relationship between alcohol and health, precisely as a basis for political decisions. In any case, I think that the debate on alcohol policy in this room in the last few months suggests that it may be healthy to get on the table more knowledge about exactly this. Let me end by saying that I agree with the warning that both the representative Ballo and the representative Sjøli are correcting the use of genetic testing – not least in terms of working life and insurance, where we are clearly opposed to it. We will shortly set down a sample to look at biological sampling in the general working life, just to defuse such a trend.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e485	Although the health status of the Norwegian population is radically improved, we still face major challenges. Not least in the prevention work, we've done a lot of cleaning. Like the Minister of Health, I believe that the so-called lifestyle diseases have a very strong impact on the health picture. We all agree that smoking contributes to cardiovascular diseases, pulmonary and respiratory diseases, and that tobacco causes about 30 pst. of cancer cases in this country. According to the World Health Organization, unimaginable 500 million of the world's population will die from smoking. For several years I have heard that we must increase the fees on cigarettes, tobacco, cigars, snuffs, etc. to get more people to stop smoking. I don't think this will help us get fewer smokers in Norway. Sweden, which has much lower taxes on tobacco products than Norway, is the only country that has achieved the objective of the World Health Organisation, namely that only 20 pst. of the adult population smoke daily. Even with high taxes on tobacco products, about one percent smoke. One third of the adult population in Norway daily. Sweden is far better than us to do preventive work. I think they impose a greater responsibility on the municipalities and regions, and give them financial opportunities to do this important work. I hope the Council of State will contact its Swedish colleague in order to get a closer knowledge of the Swedish strategy in this area. I think it'll be important to put maximum effort on the very young, so that they don't start smoking. I'm glad that the government is betting on a healthier diet, and that we're going to be better at exercising. I have also registered with great interest that the Council of State has given the State Nutrition Council the primary responsibility to follow up this important effort. In one area, it looks like we're on the defensive. I'm thinking about the students. Fewer students eat lunch, fewer schools have plans for the sale of milk, etc. It is bad that healthy food and drink are replaced by shower and snacks. I think the Swedes in this area too are far better than us. They will help students to eat a meal at school. This should be a major challenge for public, parents, non-governmental organisations and business. I have with pleasure the register that Synnove Find has gripped this issue. I also hope that the Nutrition Council, the sports movement, etc. will be able to get us out of the chair. We can even contribute to better health by walking and cycling far more than we do today. Health centres and school health services provide unique opportunities for health promotion and prevention. I have registered that several municipalities are depriving this important work. In some secondary schools, students have even collected money to maintain a health service offer. School health is also an important area in the government’s fight to reduce alcohol consumption among young people and to fight offensively against drugs. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Storting that it is important to reduce the total alcohol consumption and increase the initial age before any alcohol taste. Norway has not been able to reduce alcohol consumption by 20 pst. From 1980 to 2000, but we may now have a reduction of about 10 pst. It is also good – if we compare ourselves with other countries in the world. And we've had a happy development by drinking more wine and less spirits in Norway. It is also important to focus on abstinence at work, in traffic, in sports and recreational activities, in pregnancy, etc. We react – and rightly – to all the accidents in traffic, at sea, etc. But are we aware that most accidents happen at home? Central and local authorities should take initiatives to make homes safer. I hope the Council of State will address this challenge. The results will show up quickly if we want to prioritize this problem. Many measures can help improve the quality of life. In the course of the autumn's budgetary procedure, I hope the Minister of Health will contribute significantly to increasing the Minister of Culture's budget. A much stronger cultural effort locally and centrally will undoubtedly contribute to a better and more meaningful everyday life for all of us, thereby improving public health.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e517	The picture given by the general state of health of the Norwegian people, as described by the Council of State, is in many ways uplifting. It's a pleasure to see that we have such a high average lifetime. It is good to note that one is in control of the major public diseases; it is gratifying to learn that diseases that previously could not be treated can do something about this today. Despite these advances, however, it is worrying that differences in the state of health between population groups appear to be frozen. A Norwegian study of self-reported long-term illness shows that the class differences are at the same level in 1995 as they were in 1983. A European survey shows that Sweden and Norway have greater social differences in both morbidity and mortality than most other European countries. This is worrying, and it is far from the health policy objectives raised in 1987, where, according to the strategy of the World Health Organisation, Norway committed itself to reducing social health disparities by at least 20 pst. The great social differences in the living conditions of Norwegian people experience a special in Oslo. Here's the greatest difference between poor and rich, and here's what we find the country's greatest differences in life expectancy. The difference in life expectancy for men varies by 12 years. The life expectancy of a man on Sagene/Torshov is 67.6 years, while the age of the winner is 79.7 years. For women, the difference is 6.8 years. Health is a complex problem, and morbidity is linked to living conditions and quality of life. In this way, curative treatment is not sufficient. The effort must focus on underlying living conditions components such as income, education, employment, the living and working environment, social networks, transport and pollution. Thus, better health for all requires active social mitigation policies. The Council of State warns that this idea is consistent with the plans put forward for the national health indicator system in Norway and that this will be presented in a national health plan for spring. But I think it's comforting to hear about plans when the knowledge actually has, not used in the political everyday life. We know how unemployment is linked to morbidity – despite this, the Government has consistently lowered the priority for labour market measures, knowing that unemployment is increasing. Knowing the major problems of living conditions that Oslo is struggling with, the government is choosing to reduce the social special contribution to Oslo by 150 million. kr in the revised budget. This is for the prevention of health work ‘Cross-to-flow’ policy We still have a lack of knowledge of immigrants' health. But we know that refugees who are now coming to Norway have experienced traumatic situations. Especially for children and young people, the war must provide traumatic experiences, experiences that can create abnormal behavior and great difficulties for individuals throughout their lives if they are not processed. A previous survey of newly arrived refugees — mainly from Bosnia — showed that 48 pst. have had severe depressions. We have a humanitarian responsibility to receive refugees from the war. That responsibility is not only about housing the refugees, but it is also about facilitating a day-to-day life with work and social opportunities. We are also responsible for developing a preparedness for mental health protection, so that at least one can process the crises that refugees have been in, and are in, so that these experiences do not remain unprocessed and with the refugees for the rest of their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e536	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e539	It is positive that eight out of ten assess their own health as good or very good. At the same time, there is a paradox that the demand for healthcare only increases. The high consumption of healthcare may make you wonder whether we have had a lower limit of tolerance for life’s problems, become more body-fixed than before, or not accept a natural ageing process. I am pleased that the Minister of Health will be investing in research, so that we can better see contexts and know where to start by preventing them. We have to be in the forefront so that we can save as many lives as possible. The Christian People's Party has always supported the line that is now clarified in the public health statement, namely, the commitment to prevention. This means that each individual has to take greater responsibility for his or her own health. Public spending on information and guidance needs to be increased. Here we might have something to learn from neighboring Sweden. They have deliberately used idols and trend sets that have traveled to school and told about the health risks of smoking. All candidates for Miss Sweden have travelled around under the motto "Beauties Beating the Beast". One may dislike such competitions, but the fact is that Sweden is the first country in the world to have managed to bring down the smoking percentage of the population to below 17pst. 20 years. Today, Norway has 1.2 million daily smokers. Few ends even if research shows that 90 pst. all deaths caused by lung cancer could have been avoided if one did not smoke. The Christian People's Party supports Norway's being an active supporter of the World Health Organisation to avoid a situation where every third death in the world in 20 years is due to smoking. The largest group of new disability pensioners are those who have pain in the muscle and skeletal system. It is a paradox that these sufferings are increasing at a time when demands for physical strength are diminishing in working life. I am worried that younger and younger people have such a plague. Reports of poor schooling and bullying must be taken seriously, and there must be cooperation between home and school here. Cooperation between e.g. The Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Health can bring positive health benefits. If conditions are established for walking and cycling paths, more people will become active. And it is discouraging that children and young people are less physically active than before, that they prefer data rather than play on the loop. If you get fewer cars in agglomerations, you get a benefit in terms of less allergy and airway plagues. The Christian People's Party believes it is positive that the Government has set up its own Government Board for Nutrition and Physical Activity, and we hope that it will turn out positively, from a public health perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e554	It is important, as the Minister for Health has stressed in his statement, to focus on prevention measures in the area of health. But it's also important to keep in mind that those who are already suffering from disease actually have little use for that piece. It is important that health services function in such a way that a disease is detected at the earliest possible stage. This in order first to save lives, but of course also to save people for future suffering. An example here is mammography screening. I think it is too late to implement the proposals of the Progress Party, to which a unanimous increase has joined, to make the system of mammography screening nationwide. I both hope and expect this to be completed soon. And I would like to remind you that there are a number of private institutions around Norway that have capacity, including in my own county of More and Romsdal, that can remedy the situation, so that as many women as possible in this country get the offer that they really deserve. When you are finally lucky enough to have a health service, it is of course important that the offer given by the individual hospitals and hospital owners is a good and proper offer. I would quote from a report prepared by a hygiene committee at the Central Hospital in More and Romesdal. This has happened after I wrote a letter to the Health Service after I was able to see for myself the conditions at the dialysis department at the Central Hospital in Møre and Romesdal. I'll make you a few quotes. One concerns the corridor outside this dialysis unit, and it says: «Risk waste cartons and dirty clothing are often stacked along the walls in open jets.» Succeeded a quote: ‘Risk-waste refrigeration rooms are also located in this corridor. All waste from the hospital is transported past the dialysis department.» And finally I will quote the following: «Urgent beds are stored in the corridor if the central centre is crowded and open cots with dirty clothes and risky waste are stacked until the walls on both sides of the corridor, resulting in beds with patients going to/from high-block west etc. it must be pressed through. Patient cot/cot can easily come into direct contact with the dirt bags, the risk waste boxes...’, etc. I hope that the Minister of Health will take a closer look at this matter and intervene, so that the situation is corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e580	I think it is important in this debate that we do not ignore the international aspects of public health. Infectious diseases are the main cause of disease and death worldwide, and infectious diseases do not respect borders. Therefore, infectious diseases in our neighbouring countries will also pose a threat to public health in Norway. In this context, the strong increase in serious infectious diseases in the Baltic region and Russia is a threat to Norwegian public health. In our time, with extensive travel activities and the corresponding short journey time, these are our neighbourhoods. It's kind of about here. on a frightening increase in the prevalence of gender diseases in Russia. As seen in the reports of something close to an invasion of Russian prostitutes in Finnmark, this is very worrying. It is also very serious that there is a growing emergence of resistant tuberculosis in the Baltic region. It's tragic to see young people die of such a disease. In the case of tuberculosis, there is a known link between nutrition, social and hygienic conditions and infection. It is also the case that the health budgets of these countries will be difficult to cope with a further increase, among other things. of resistant tuberculosis, which is highly costly to treat. It is therefore important that Norway participates in international cooperation to stop infection and prevent the development of resistance in our neighbourhoods as well. There are not just questions here about painful illness and premature death. The development of resistance also has major economic consequences, as mentioned above. I am therefore pleased with the measures taken by the Minister of Health to monitor the development of resistance in Norway, and for the international cooperation we participate in with our neighbouring countries to monitor the disease situation and to prevent the development of resistance also in countries such as the Baltic countries and Russia, which in the context of infectious diseases, as mentioned, are to be seen as our neighbourhoods. The effort here is also an effort for Norwegian public health.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e593	The debate shows broad support for the main priorities drawn up in the public health statement, for which I am pleased and grateful. Finally, let me just comment on a few questions that have been raised in the course of the debate. The representative of Skogholt raised the issue of tax policy in relation to tobacco. It is clear that the charging policy has been a very important part of the Norwegian strategy to reduce tobacco damage. It should still be. I was at the World Health Assembly in Geneva last week, where a report was presented by the World Bank on the effects of the use of high charges, which is very interesting reading, and which I will without fail take on income so that we still have to keep a high level of fees in Norway. It is not that Sweden's numbers are so much better than the Norwegians when you see the speech of the numbers in their entire context. Sweden has a lower consumption of smoking tobacco than Norway has, and a lower proportion of smokers. But if you look at the percentage of people who use drugs in Sweden, in addition to those who smoke, the picture doesn't get that different. On the other hand, I would like to say that we have a clear interest in learning from the Swedes about the strategy of local and regional work, because we have driven a too centralist approach in Norway. Attempts are now being made in several counties where the county doctors cooperate with the municipalities for a more locally anchored work on tobacco, and I believe that we will continue. We should learn from the Swedish experience in this area. With regard to the specific matter raised by the representative Nesvik, I do not know about it, but I would assume that the supervisory authorities, with the county doctor in charge, are following up the supervisory work that has been started.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e606	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3385]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e620	Let me begin by saying, as the rapporteur-in-Office, that I am pleased that we have here a unanimous conclusion in the Committee. In fact, the proposers, represented by the Progress Party, have their own comments, and I expect them to come back to them during this debate. In the light of the proposal, the proposers point out that, following the introduction of a new contractual arrangement for medical practitioners, a number of priority operations have been severely reduced by practitioners who have entered into an operating agreement with the county council. It has reason to believe that the contract specialists have to use the required proportion of these operations in addition to the normal tariffs, which cover only a minor part of the costs of such operations. It is a fact that, as an unintended consequence of the agreement policy in the autumn of 1998, a situation arose in which some doctors who were then without an operating agreement and partly operated surgically, by accepting the offer of county operating agreements no longer have a financial basis for carrying out certain types of operations. Doctors with a municipal or county operating agreement do not have the opportunity to go beyond specified tariffs. These tariffs are refunded via the Rikstrygdeverket and determined by the regulation of the Ministry. In a letter of 17 March this year, the Minister for Health stated that it is desirable to maintain, and to increase, the operational capacity of private specialists in addition to the day-to-day surgery in hospitals. An overall committee considers that the basis for maintaining and increasing the operational capacity of practitioners will be to adjust the tariffs to an accounting level. We are aware that there have been investigations between the parties to the contract work on the possibility of implementing a preliminary adjustment of some high priority tariffs already in the context of the equity adjustment in January of this year, but the parties agreed instead to return to the question in full at the spring peak on the basis of a concrete assessment of each tariff. A working group between the National Agency for Social Security and the Medical Association is now reviewing the cost of the operations in question. A unanimous committee refers to the decision to increase the operational capacity by making better use of hospital equipment and facilities. We take a positive view of the follow-up of the Minister of Health, among others. through a circular to the county councils and hospitals where it is proposed that part-time hospital work be given to contract specialists or that premises and equipment be rented out to practitioners. In view of this, a unanimous committee agrees that, on the basis of the agreement between the parties and the ongoing efforts to provide a factual basis for the negotiations, it is not now recommended that the State intervene in the process by unilaterally implementing an adjustment of the individual tariffs. Instead, the Committee wishes to refer this matter and this proposal to the Protocol pending a clarification of this by means of the agreement currently under negotiation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e633	The working party believes that we need to exploit health professionals so that as many patients as possible receive treatment within a time frame that is medically sound. For this reason, we have no objection that private specialists with agreements with county councils may carry out e.g.: operations within the framework of the agreement. The new agreement policy put into effect on 1 July 1998 meant, inter alia, that: private medical specialists who were to work for the public money had to have an agreement with the county councils. In this way, the doctor was guaranteed public operating grants and could receive some of his compensation from the public interest, and the public was given control of the health care of society. This has led to the conclusion in 1998 of 270 such operating agreements with non-psychiatric specialists, including the following: This means that far more patients receive treatment with a much lower proportion of the drug than before. An unintended effect of this new contract policy appears to be that private practitioners are unable to carry out operations and other medical treatments at an accounting price within the fee charged. Such fees shall be fixed in negotiations between the Norwegian Medical Association, the Central Association of Municipalities and the State, and this shall be the case. I am very surprised that the fees for private specialists with county operating agreements in the negotiations in spring 1998 were not adapted to the needs and realities. It may not be the task of the Storting to enter into the regulation of individual tariffs for medical work. I therefore see it as a matter of course that these tariff regulations take place in an agreement between the above parties. Although this relationship should be arranged fairly quickly for the benefit of patients, I expect it is appropriate to follow the normal negotiation procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e648	It is positive that a significant number of agreements have now been established between county councils and private specialists, although the Progress Party would like to see even more agreements established. In fact, a significant number of medical specialists are still without a county agreement, while public health services have significant health cows and a lack of health professionals. A good part of the contractual arrangements established concern specialists in various types of surgery, such as general surgery, orthopaedics, ear, nose and throat diseases and eye diseases. It was as far as I could understand, a prerequisite for establishing contractual arrangements to make better use of the operational capacity of these private specialists than before, and that patients, in order to get help from these specialists with the agreement, should avoid normal self-payment. It is no less than a paradox that one now records that the operational activities and capacity of these private contract specialists cannot be exploited, because the tariffs for different operations in private practice are so low that it is not cost-effective to perform surgical procedures – yes, it is even a direct loss if such interventions are carried out by the specialist’s own offices. This situation was the reason why the party promoting the present document No. The 8th proposal. A unanimous committee states in the present setting that it: «considers that the basis for maintaining and increasing the operational capacity of practitioners would be to adjust the tariffs to an accounting level». So far this isn't done. I am aware that there are negotiations between the parties, i.e. the State and the Norwegian Medical Association, but so far no information on these negotiations has led to the proposed increase in tariffs. I find it incomprehensible that there should be two different tariff systems, one for public outpatient clinics and one with lower tariffs for private operational intervention. This is discrimination against a professional group, to which the Progress Party is totally divided. In my opinion, the proposal from the Minister of Health to the Committee that private specialists may use the facilities and premises of hospitals for their operational activities is more or less meaningless and impracticable. The vast majority of contract specialists involved in surgery have both equipment and facilities for this in their respective offices and also health professionals for assistance to different operations. Especially this applies to ear, nose, neck and eye operations. I therefore find it pointless that the specialists should move to a public hospital to perform these interventions. There are time games and misuses of resources, so the premises and equipment are owned by these offices. It could be tempting to ask the Minister of Health directly here and now what is the reason for this discrimination against private specialists in relation to the medical specialists who serve the public outpatient clinics. I honestly believed that it was also the Minister of Health's wish and goal that as many patients as possible could be treated, and that private specialist homes saw a resource that would be better used to reduce health cows in more disciplines. The waiting lists for cataract operations have increased from 5,000 in 1987 to a total of 16,800 patients in 1998. There should therefore be a strong need to increase the number of cataract operations and to facilitate this, so that these operations could be carried out at the offices of the private eye specialist. I can also notice in this context that effectiveness in relation to the number of operations per. In general, annual work is much larger at the private clinics and medical clinics than at the public outpatient clinics. So it's good use of resources in the office service of the private specialists. The total amount of heads that this is talking about, and that should be shot in as fresh money from the department when it can't be solved any other way, after all, it's all just about a place between $12 million. and $15 million. kr, and it should therefore not be the big problem to recover this amount, for example by examining the revised national budget. I think I dare say that is the will it stands on, and unfortunately I think to register in different contexts that there is also a certain negative attitude from this government towards private health services in general. At my discretion, there should be equal standard rates for surgical procedures, whether these procedures are carried out at private offices or in public outpatient clinics. I hope that the ongoing negotiations between the Medical Association, the Department and the Rikstrøgdeverket will be brought forward so that the tariffs can be brought up to a proper level, and so that the private specialists can treat more patients first and foremost, but also be able to maintain their professional techniques in the field of operational interventions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e681	I don't have so much to add to the debate and to the letter I wrote to the Social Committee of 17 March 1999, which is referred to in the vote. The problem that is behind the proposal arose in the context of the new contract policy for private health professionals. In this context, a wide range of medical specialists who had previously uncontracted practices have had an operating agreement with the county councils. The scope of the medical specialists’ operating agreement was doubled by the reform. Some of these doctors, in addition to office practice, had operated surgery that was normally carried out in hospitals. Because the establishment requires own operating rooms, expensive equipment and the involvement of other health professionals, not many doctors have had such practices. Normal tariffs have also not provided sufficient cost coverage, but the business has been able to be financed in the past with high self-payments from patients. In operational contract practice, this possibility does not exist and therefore the continuation of activities has been problematic in the last year. To a certain extent, however, county councils have purchased operations from these doctors. At the end of the year, the parties to the tariff negotiations have, on this basis, a common attitude to seek agreement on an adjustment of tariffs for some high priority operations. The objective is that the tariffs in the standard tariff should rise to a level which makes the cost-effective implementation of these operations also in operational contract practice. This will be an important addition to the day-to-day surgery carried out by hospitals and the aim is to help reduce waiting lists and exploit capacity. A central objective of the new policy was precisely to facilitate the direct establishment by the former private specialists of a municipal operating agreement of work on the areas specifically prioritised by the counties. It is important that tariff systems do not prevent this from being achieved. Tariff negotiations are ongoing in these days with a view to the conclusion of a new agreement on operating grants and tariffs with effect from 1 July 1999. I therefore have no opportunity to give feedback on the outcome of the negotiations, but I have good hope that we will get to the goal. Let me conclude by saying that from my side this is not a matter of unwillingness – on the contrary. It is a matter of respect for the rules of the game we have in relation to the parties involved in tariff negotiations. It suggests that tariff adjustments are made in the context of negotiations between the parties, and that is what we have now stated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e696	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3385]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e710	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will suggest that lines are not allowed after the individual posts, and that those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This will be seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e719	St. pp. No 45 and Innst. S. No 180 on the same subject covers a wide range of issues within different programme categories in the budget area of the Transport Committee. Most of the cases have been considered by the Committee to be heroic, and for that reason have few or no comments on them. It is within the programme area 21.3 Road objectives there is some disagreement. The first concerns the application by the municipality of Bergen for the doubling of toll rates in Bergen and an extension of the recovery period by one year. It is the Right Party and the Progress Party which constitute the minority and which have indicated that they wish to vote against points 1 and 2 of Part II of the proposal for a decision, the proposal to increase the rates and extend the agreement respectively. The Right Party and the Advance Party have different reasons for voting against it, and I believe that representatives of the Advance Party themselves will explain their views on the matter. I'm going to focus here on the Right View. On the right, it has always been perceived that the toll contract in Bergen meant a so-called crown for a crown principle – 1 kroner from the consumer would be answered by 1 kroner from the state. The right has felt that this understanding has also served as the basis for the various majority in Bergen relating to this matter. The right is, and has been, skeptical in principle about extending toll agreements beyond the specified dates because such an extension is a breach of the agreement between the political system and consumers represented by any toll project. Of course, it is unfortunate that the political system is violating such agreements, and it weakens over time the confidence in the tolling system itself as a potential source of financing for road construction in Norway. However, when the Right was willing to enter into the agreement, both the increase in the price and the extension, it was justified in the broad support the case had, among other things. in the business community of Bergen. But a prerequisite for the Right was, in accordance with what we have seen, the prerequisites both in the political system in Bergen and in business, an agreement that led further to the principle of crowns, in addition to the 45 million borrowed from the Toll Fund for the Western Invasion Years, being returned to the Toll Fund. The majority won't do it that way. They do not want to comply with the krone agreement, because the majority interprets this agreement differently from the right. The right notes that the majority generously allows Bergen to double the toll rates, but will not continue the agreement on the crown principle. The right does not see this as an extension, but as an entirely new agreement. That is the reason why the Right will vote against points 1 and 2 of the agreement, and I ask that the vote be put up so that this is possible for the Right. Then it becomes the political system in Bergen's task to see whether this agreement, which the Storting is likely to adopt today, is satisfactory and in accordance with the decisions taken in Bergen. It remains to be seen. The other disagreement is linked to the matter of the shooting of the Triangle Connection. Here, the Right believes that the company should be fully compensated for the interest burden of gunning. The majority don't mean that. The Right Party and the Advance Party believe that the State should do this. The right is set to come back to this during the examination of the budget for the year 2000 with a view to adding compensation to the company — the compensation that the Right believes is right. In connection with this matter, I have a question for the Council of State. This is a matter that concerns an advance amount. In addition, it is a compensation for interest charges. In the setting, there are concrete sums, 118 million. kr in advance shooting and also an interest-rate compensation that is quite concrete. Is it the way to perceive that we are adopting these amounts here today, and that any changes in the amounts up to the size have to go back to the Storting? It's very important for the Right to clarify this today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e734	After the rapporteur's presentation, I will only make a few comments on the overall proposal that we are dealing with today. And the first concrete thing I want to go into is the toll system in Bergen. In 1985, in connection with the extension of the national road network in Bergen, the Stortinget decided that the municipality of Bergen could set up a bombing around the Bergen Centre to co-finance the development of a decent road network in Bergen. This road network includes the further development of northern and southern entryways to Bergen and the development of a new western entryway. In addition, the Toll Agreement provides for the use of funds for road safety measures, the construction of pedestrian and bicycle roads and the upgrading of the area at the centre, which are released from traffic when the entry years are completed. The Toll Agreement provides for an annual toll subsidy of 50 million. kr for the development of a decent road network in Bergen. The agreement presupposes the granting by the State of an equivalent annual amount in addition to ordinary national road appropriations in Hordaland. If one looks at the follow-up in the road plan, the toll agreement was based on a 600 million toll. SEK in tolls, 600 million. DKK in extra State resources and 1330 million. kr in ordinary State resources. If you look at the actual follow-up in 1997 dollars, it's $600 million. kr in tolls. The extra state grant matches the $600 million for dollars. In addition, ordinary national roads have been allocated 1,380 million. SEK and 480 million. kr in advance shoots. This means that ordinary government funds have increased by 50 million. kr in relation to the original toll contract. In fact, although toll tariffs have not changed since the introduction of the toll system in 1986, the system has been running out of profit each year. It has always, cf. the tolling agreement, provided that the surplus of the tolling system was to be used for upgrading at the Bergen Centre. This was underlined in the 1998–2007 Roadmap, to which the Stortingen joined. And I feel that there has also been no doubt about how these funds should be disposed of. My opinion is that the state has followed up its part of the agreement through the exceptional grants of 50 million. kr annually. It is precisely this interpretation around the heads of the crown principle, which is at the heart of the dispute in the setting, that the case-rapporteur was referring to. In the context of the increase of tariffs from 1 November 1999 and the extension of the tolling period by one year, this will increase the revenues of the tolling company in the years 1999, 2000 and 2001. For 1999 and 2000, this together could generate some toll revenue. 170 million. kr. The additional State subsidy for these two years will then amount to approx. 160 million. kr, i.e. This is a match of heads for the principle of crowns. For 2001, however, toll revenue will amount to 120 million. kr. Under the new agreement, the State's share would be 72 million. kr, i.e. that the difference is of 48 million. NOK in relation to the krona principle. These include: Here the disagreement comes in. My opinion is that there is a ‘new agreement’ that has been concluded for 2001. This means that you can deviate from the krona principle, and I refer only to what I have said earlier in relation to the fact that in the period up to 1997 it was also granted 50 million. kr in addition to the ordinary means. In isolation, Bergen also gets back the 45 million. kr spent on this service, in 2000, although of course it is at the expense of the normal framework of Hordaland. In the context of the disagreement in this case, I would like to stress that for the future – and that is precisely what the majority emphasises – the current toll agreements for tolls have to state clearly the admissibility obligations of the State when annual toll revenue changes in relation to the assumptions underlying them. So some comments related to the foraging and shooting of the Triangle Connection. As the case-rapporteur was in the Chamber, there is a majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right, who are in favour of this shooting. At the same time, this majority underlines the importance of the State complying with the agreements concluded and restoring the funds raised. Of course, if uncertainty is established here, it has an impact on the assessments to be made by financial institutions for toll projects when debt financing is involved. If we take this specific matter, we are faced with a situation in the budget for 2000, 2001 and partly in 2002 with the need for substantial government resources. I have taken that freedom and summed up how the costs are for the Triangle connection. In the case of the main road section, it amounts to 1 230 million. kr, arm of Bømlo is 565 million. NOK – a total sum, which is also mentioned in the proposition, of SEK 1 795 million. kr. This means that, in the case of the share of the route, in 2000, the country will have to bring in 210 million. kr, and in the case of the Bømlo arm, which is a national road project, the country must bring in 75 million. SEK – total 285 million. kr. In 2001, the country shall collect EUR 180 million. kr in the main road share and 100 mill. kr in the national road share – a total equivalent equivalent sum of 280 million. kr. The balance in 2002 is about Thirty-five million. SEK in total on the two projects. The big question I want to ask the Council of State is: Is the Government offered to enter into these state commitments as provided for in the Toll Agreement, funds that are now needed to keep progress on the project? Or is it that the Government is considering a review of the Toll Agreement concluded for the Triangle Connection?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e755	It is no more than a couple of weeks since we decided to tax the cars on the North Jären with a new collection centre under state control, and today we are adopting a further tightening of the toll collection in Bergen. Yes, it's actually not just a tightening, but it's a doubling of the rates that are today. This means that the drivers in Bergen will have an increased tax burden of 70 million. kr. If they had, they'd have added this $70 million. kr on the tax slip, it would have been a problem, but when it comes to taking the drivers, it's probably all possible. Here you have just as on the North Jären and a whole number of other places blocked by the whole area, closed it completely hermetically so no one gets away from paying. Today, in fact, the drivers in taxes and charges pay a total of 38 billion kroner, while only 9.6 billion kroner are used by the state for operation, maintenance and investment on the road. So only 9.6 billion kroner out of 38 billion kroner of the car drivers' money goes back. There are no limits to inventiveness on the part of the country as regards the collection from the driving lists. The new thing now is tolls, and the number of toll roads is increasing. The number has now become dangerously high, and there is a large seizure of the free resources allocated to investment in new roads. If it goes on like this, there's no free money left, either with us or with the drivers. To clarify a little bit here, we in the Progress Party are not totally against toll collection. It can often be heard this way when some representatives of other parties express their views on the policy of the Progress Party. There are many who understand better the policies of the Progress Party than we do ourselves. We in the Progress Party can go in for toll collection, but then there should be a free alternative route. We can also go in for toll collection when a bridge replaces a ferry. Toll collection is then in order, but that collection is to be delayed and not in advance. The case that we are dealing with today concerns a doubling of the tariff in a total bombing around Bergen. This is something that the Progress Party has gone against both locally and centrally. The setting that we are dealing with now concerns a whole series of issues, and I just want to end by saying that in the Progress Party we are very pleased that the railway network is being leased out, so that Telenor's network gets competition. The old monopolies are finally breaking up, and that is something that we in the Progress Party have been fighting for for for 25 years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e768	St. pp. No 45 mainly mentions the progress and implementation of cases resulting from previous decisions and, in most cases, the Committee has no comments. I would therefore like to carefully comment on a few individual matters, starting with two who have created a debate. This concerns the Tolling Scheme in Bergen and the acceleration of the Triangle Connection. With regard to the tolling in Bergen, it was the first of its kind in Norway and includes the development of the road network in the Bergen centre. The toll collection would provide a subsidy of approx. 50 million. kr annually, and the State would grant an equally exceptional grant of 50 million. kr per. years. In addition, until 1998, the State has contributed 1587 million. 1999 DKK in ordinary appropriations. In total, tolls account for approx. 24 pst. of total investments up to and including 1998. There is therefore good reason to stress that Bergen has a toll agreement with a very high level of government funding. Local authorities now want to double the tariffs from 1 November 1999 and extend the tolling period by one year. The State will follow up its contributions for 1999 and 2000, and in 2001 it will contribute 72 million. kr. The Christian People's Party has noticed that there has been disagreement about the size of the extraordinary government appropriations. As a result, the municipality of Bergen has allocated funds to funds in addition to the state until now provided in exceptional funds. Today, the fund is 65 million. kr. The Christian People's Party believes that the State has fulfilled its obligations under St.prp. point.118 for 1984-85, and therefore considers that the whole fund and its return will be used to expand the road network in Bergen, as provided for in the toll agreement. The Christian People's Party has also noticed that 45 million. kr in non-disposal funds from the toll company, at the request of the Staten vägvesen in Hordaland, have been used for Rv 555 Nygårdstangen Gyldenpreis. The Christian People’s Party therefore assumes that an equivalent amount is transferred from the ordinary public highway infrastructure of Hordaland in 2000 and made available for priority actions under the toll agreement. Then I find with amazement that the Right and Advance Party will vote against the extension of the toll regime in Bergen. The right is holding the crown for the principle of crowns in extraordinary funds from the state, despite the low toll ratio of 24 p.m. in Bergen. I just remind you that the toll contract in Oslo is 55 p.m. and in Trondheim on 60 p.m. toll financing. In the name of justice, the Christian People's Party cannot participate in the distribution of such extraordinary gift packages. The promotion party is against tolls, and also writes in its note that they are against blocking entire areas without the drivers having a free optional option. I have great faith in responsibility combined with free choice, but with such a system I think even members of the Progress Party would choose the free corridor over the bomb road, with the traffic noise it would lead. So over to the Triangle Connection and the joyous fact that the state and the toll company have negotiated an agreement on forced opening, which could bring savings. This will allow Stordabrua to open in December 2000 and Bømlabrua early in 2001 instead of in July of the same year. In isolation, the state will be able to save $24 million. NOK at the service, but I have agreed to cover $8 million. kr of the extra cost. The toll company covers the rest. The state will thus be able to save 16 million. kr on the project. Here too, the Progress Party and the Right want to spend more of the State's money despite the fact that a voluntary agreement on distribution between the State and the Toll Company has already been concluded. Of course, that this will have consequences for other projects waiting for funding, the same parties say nothing about it. Finally, I just want to briefly mention two other issues in St.prp. No 45. The government announced that it would return with updated costs and a realistic implementation time for the Drammen road package in the State budget for 2000. Furthermore, the Ministry will propose that an additional allocation be made for one to two versions of the tunnel through the Old Town, and submit this to the Stortinget late-harvest in 1999. The research carried out shows that all alternatives are very complex and cost-intensive, with an investment need ranging from DKK 3.3 billion to DKK 5.2 billion. The Christian People's Party has expectations that continued investigation work will bring costs down to a more realistic and feasible level.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e794	This is a common proposition, and then there's a lot of mixed drops of stuff in a little bit of different areas. I'll comment on some of them. I will first start with the tolling in Bergen, which most people have spent time saying. The mountains were first out with tolls. As a result, there has been a lot of road, road and road. What is positive is that when it is extended and the tariff is increased, the revenue from drivers in 2001 should be one third to the Outer Way and two thirds to environmental measures, pedestrian and cycle roadside improvements, road safety, public transport and planning resources — in other words, a slightly different profile than it has been in the past. I would like to see that as a very positive angle on future tolls in Bergen. I assume that this is something that will also apply beyond 2001, sail if that is what we are dealing with today. There is one project that is integrated into this, to which I would like to make some critical remarks, because here there is some money in the year 2000, and that is the Midtun Hop project. I have been very skeptical about it, and had a private inspection in Bergen for a short time ago. After spending a few hours there and being informed about it, I have to say that my scepticism has become much stronger. I see, first of all, that this can lead to a number of costs that are not included in the project, because this leads a lot of traffic down to the sealine, and I imagine that the four-field road will come strongly. It will also conflict with a possible future urban trajectory. I think it is unfortunate that this project is started on the basis of such unclear assumptions for the future. The second part is in the environment, i.e. it should have been environmentally safe. When I was standing there on Kloppedalsmyra, I saw the enclosed valley that was close to me as a shack in the terrain. It's not going to be good to live there, because Midtun – Hop is built with an open solution. I saw a number of other aspects of Midtun – Hop that meant that this project should be quality-proof, reviewed and revised. That is why SV is proposing this today, which I am going to promote immediately. Then it's the Triangle Connection. It's a project that we don't want to be built. But when it's first going on – and it's going on and on – we don't see any reason why it's not being carried out, but I want to say that you should always be aware of what's happening in that project with regard to the environmental aspects, that you don't, because it's going to be much more expensive than calculated, make savings that go beyond the environment. So a couple of other things. Now Stortinget gives authority to the State Road Administration, which is very well known. This means that the State Road Service can obtain powers of up to 650 million. kr in addition to the given permissions where they can make bindings in the future. That means there's a lot of money that's going to be except for political treatment, and I think it's very unfortunate that we're getting so big bonds. I know that the Storting has been concerned with bonds in other contexts here before, by projects being started without them being seen in an overall context. But here are many – not very large, but small – projects that are being launched, and bonds that we have to bring forward. I'm a little surprised that it's not a more critical attitude to it from the majority of the Biggest. So to an area where we also disagree with the number of committees, and it's about renting out the fibre optics of the railway network. The reason for this is that we have a proposal that has not yet been dealt with, about the separation of Telenor's network and the establishment of a company for the management of state telecommunications networks, including the railway undertaking's fibre network. We think it would be wrong to place leadership on the railway network before this with the establishment of a state-owned network company, where the railway network should also have entered, has been treated. There were my comments on various issues in a proposition that are quite diverse, but that are largely about smaller matters.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e811	The representative Myrvoll has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e814	St. pp. No 45 for 1998-99 on the modification of appropriations, etc. for 1999 in the Ministry of Transport is a collection of issues that should have been dealt with separately. This concerns, in particular, the cases concerning the establishment of the Civil Aviation Commission, investment in the Aviation Administration, the Tolling Scheme in Bergen and E39/Rv 542 The Acceleration of the Triangle Connection. I am aware that this way of doing it has been practice for a long time, but I am afraid that this could lead to a more superficial handling of the cases than if they had been treated separately. In all proceedings, it is important that the individual projects adopted should be implemented in line with the decisions taken, so that both time and price are consistent with the outcome. Recent exceedances in many projects have led to difficulties in political governance due to the need for additional appropriations after the start of projects. This testifies to poor pre-work and calculation and should be taken more seriously for the future. If this had been implemented, there would probably have been a lot of projects on the waiting list today, for example: Rome Sports. In the case of investments in the Aviation Administration, the Progress Party considers that the original plans for Stavanger airport, Sola, are being implemented according to St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99, and not postponed until 2001 by using this money to other airports. In the case of Bergen, it must be such that the original tolling system which was put into effect from 1 January 1986 and was to last until the end of the year 2000 will continue to apply and that the booms will be removed at the end of the period. Local authorities now want to increase the tariffs and extend the term of the agreement, and then use the money for other projects that were not originally part of the agreement. This looks at the Progress Party as an addition and increased taxation of those who depend on the use of the car as a means of delivery. Tolls now tend to use more and more municipalities, and they need to be stopped, especially in view of the huge difference between what the State is taking on car and car use and what comes back in terms of better roads and road safety measures. Therefore, in my opinion, tolls will be a modern form of taxation. The representative, Jan Sahl, believes that the view of the Progress Party on free reversion options by bomb roads will cause chaos, and that everyone will use the freeway. Experience from the Trondheim – Stjørdal bombing route shows that this is not the case. Although it is possible to use the old road free of charge, it turns out that drivers still use the new road with a speed limit of 90 km. In this proposition, the Directorate of Road is authorised to use 650 million. kr in addition to the given appropriations, and it makes me somewhat concerned. This leads to bonds in future budget mines, although I am aware that construction periods can go beyond several years. In 1999, about 40 p.m. of the investment framework on the road side of projects and actions not mentioned in the St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99. So the last thing: transferring the Radio Noise Control from Telenor AS to the Post and Telecommunications Authority is a good solution, as those tasks are of an administrative nature and should not lie under Telenor, which is one of several commercial operators in the telecommunications market.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e835	St. pp. No 45 and the referral by the Committee covers a number of issues which have already been mentioned by several speakers. I'm not going to deal with all of these, but I'll briefly comment on the Committee's comments on a couple of issues. First tolling in Bergen. This is the first toll to be phased out. The recovery was actually due to end at the end of 2000. The revenues, along with government funds, were to go to the expansion of a decent place in Bergen. From a local point of view, it has been working for several years to increase fares and extend the tolling period by one year in order to implement several of the projects for which no room has been found within the current scheme. In general, we can say that Bergen has a clearly better road system as a result of the tolling. However, it is also clear that there are still many needs for development on the road side. The proposed measures will improve the situation. The political process in Bergen and between representatives from Bergen and the ministry on changes to the current agreement have been circumstantial. In the light of the postwar clock, I would say that it is hardly relevant for the ministry to engage in this way in other similar contexts. The majority’s comment can be understood as meaning that in 2001 toll revenue is not to be used for Midtun — Hop. In this case, this could mean that there will be no refurbishment of the project, as was the background for the local political majority in order to increase the tariffs in 1999 and 2000. If the understanding of the majority's comment is correct, we need to get back to any consequences. Another matter to which I would like to make some comments is the proposal to transfer the Radio Noise Control to the Post and Telecommunications Authority. The Committee supports the proposal to transfer the Radio Noise Control to the Post and Telecommunications Authority. The Committee notes that the tasks entrusted with the Radio Noise Control are of an administrative nature and that this type of task falls naturally within the scope of the Postal and Telecommunications Regulatory Body. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party and the Right find it critical that management tasks are carried out by Telenor as one of several commercial operators in the telecommunications market. In this context, I would like to point out that the Radio Noise Control investigates the causes of noise and interference, but does not have the power to take administrative decisions. When the Radio Noise Control detects the cause of noise, in almost all cases the relationship is corrected by the owner/user without further delay. On this basis, it is more appropriate to characterise the work carried out by the Radio Noise Control in this context as a public service and information task. It is difficult to see that the handling of radio noise issues would raise stability issues even if the task was carried out by a Telenor unit. The location of the activities of the Postal and Telecommunications Authority is natural because there is close professional relationship between this type of task and the tasks performed by the frequency control unit of the supervision. I guess I can also say that the department is also not aware that there have ever been any objections, or any such objections, to the fact that the job has been done so far by a Telenor unit. A main reason why the Radio Noise Control has not been proposed by Telenor at an earlier stage is that until quite recently, in 1996, the unit has also had a significant part of more business tasks, including: measurement tasks of the Post and Telecommunications Authority in the case of cable television and for NEMKO. These tasks are now carried out by these bodies themselves. In addition, I will try to reply briefly to some of the comments and comments that have come from both the case rapporteur and other speakers so far. Let me stress that a gunner is a gunnery, whether it is done by municipalities, county councils or toll companies, and it is to be refunded or refunded. But I also need to stress that the assumption is that tolls collected under the Road Code are to be used for their purpose. It is therefore a prerequisite that tolls collected in accordance with the provisions of the Road Code in the Bergen bombardment should be used for the development of a proper service. Surpluses from the tolling, in the event that they occur, shall be used to expand properly on behalf of the Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e861	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e865	I had not thought this would be a big debate, but it was basically the representative of Sahl who made me take the floor. I was left with the impression that he thought Bergen had received a fantastic treatment over the last few years in terms of the toll section. It is well possible that the representative Sahl has that opinion, but then it is important to refresh the historical knowledge. In fact, both the Eidsvåg tunnel and the Puddefjord bridge in Bergen are 100 percent toll-funded by consumers, fully and completely – not five ears from the state. The road network in Bergen was very poor, the state had neglected its task for decades. It was actually under right-hand control in Bergen that you found out that you had to do something, and made the toll we're dealing with here today. It was both what Bergen had previously paid for, linked to the two projects here, and that the state had neglected its task, which meant that Bergen got that agreement. Then you can discuss whether Bergen got a good deal or not. But you should not forget that it is only the inner toll that applies to Bergen. So around Bergen there are additional tolls. There are tolls on the Ashøy Bridge – for 20,000 people – there are tolls on the Salhus Bridge, there are tolls on the North Hordland Bridge and the Osterøy Bridge. The point is that it costs a lot of money to get back and forth. You can't come here in this room and say that those who go through Bergen City, and those who live around there, have a good deal. Each consumer here pays higher tolls than in any other part of this country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e872	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e888	Before I start using my speaking time, I would say – if I am allowed – that we are in the wonderful situation that at least the right state council is not there. I'm assuming that has a little bit to do with the circumstances. I assume that the Council of State is listening to what I'm saying, without him necessarily being present. The government is at least present. In the last five – six years, Tana’s 3,000 inhabitants have seen that prostitution is in the process of destroying the countryside. The inhabitants have protested. They have asked for help and have felt remorse for an ever-growing moral decay. The increased, positive transparency towards Russia has had a negative, local outlay. A strong commitment on the part of the population has shown that the majority of people are not satisfied with the fact that there is going to be pigs for the countryside and the growing-up environment of children. It's about value perception, about dignity and about women's vision. It seems that national authorities are finally in the fight against the uvesense. It's in place, because now prostitution is spreading to ever-new towns and cities. What looks like organised insidious activities, economic greed and morally reprehensible rental activities cannot continue. The towns that are hit pay too high a price. The tana mariner reports an increase in the illegal introduction and placing on the market of alcohol and tobacco. 300 bottles of Russian spirits were just seized. The drug problem is also increasing. And this is in the wake of prostitution. I therefore think it is positive that we now, just before Pentecost, got reports that the government is finally taking the problem seriously. This is about values. It may seem that both the Value Commission and the Government have had deaf ears for too long, perhaps because the noise from the whore traffic in Tana, Alta and the Churches has been perceived as a local phenomenon, from which the ransom papers could report quirky and exotic news. Like the seller, we have to know, but it stigmatises the Finnish countryside in an unfair way. I just saw a statistic showing that if the proportionally same number of prostitutes who come to Tana every weekend had been transferred to Oslo, it would mean that 4,000 prostitutes each weekend moved into Oslo. I called for a strategy to bring the Russian prostitution to life in the interpellation, after the National Council of the Right. Such a strategy must contain several elements. It is necessary to prevent Russian whores from crossing borders, to cooperate with different authorities to disrupt traffic, and to initiate measures in the field of awareness-raising. The last thing – and I stress it – is about Norwegian men who buy sex. It's really the ones that create this skeleton in the Barents region. The purchase and sale of sex is in itself reprehensible, but when it is done openly, in the middle of a small building, it becomes intolerable. This is why there is a national problem, which requires national action. Prostitution is said to be the oldest profession in the world — albeit rather false. But for decent people in Skippagurra, it's about aliens ruining their countryside. People feel as helpless spectators, children and young people observe the cynical exchange of fellow people by adults, reprehensible attitudes take place – without shyness – in the middle of the living environment. The merger has protested against what is happening, and the local authorities of several Finnish municipalities are left with a sense of renunciation. Tana Municipality and Networks in the north last summer held a conference on prostitution and violence against women. 100 participants from the countries of the Barents region made an appeal to the Council of Europe and to the governments of the North Caloten that, from an ethical point of view, prostitution is totally unacceptable and contrary to the values on which our society is based. I fully agree with that. They also called for a plan of measures to combat and prevent prostitution in the country. In addition, they suggested criminalising the purchase of sexual services. However, I have little faith that criminalising prostitution is the way to go. Criminalisation would certainly reduce the scope of open prostitution, thus preventing some of the whore traffic in small towns in Finnmark. But the problem complex is more complicated than that. General criminalisation will undoubtedly also have undesirable and unintended side effects, including: there is reason to believe that prostitution will take place more in the hidden. The consequence will be that the hallicians and other backers will gain even greater power over the women. In addition, I am afraid that the women, like the weak party, will be more reluctant to report violence and rape. In any case, legislation should not be directed at prostitutes, but at those who stand behind and exploit other people. In this way, I note with interest that the police last week turned against the backers of the Church, and that the Ministry of Justice will deploy more police against prostitution in Finnmark. When State Secretary Bjørn Solbakken, after a meeting where several government councils discussed the matter with representatives from the Tana municipality, tells me that the department is now going to take more measures to upset the environment, it is entirely in line with what I called for when I promoted the interpelation in April. But it's urgent. It's urgent, because the building environment is now in disintegration. Violence and alcohol abuse are increasing among more and more groups, and younger people, families are suffering and youth are being led to a wrong view of women. Current legislation, e.g. the building law, the penal code, the law on foreigners, health laws, etc. must be used as far as possible to disrupt the environment and prevent further development of these activities. Registration during visa processing as well as increased resources for, inter alia: the police are also positive measures. Then I'm probably more sceptical that this societal problem will be an economic'milk cuss' for the capital's more jacquard consulting environment. I understand that in despair in some municipalities in Finnmark, people are now trying to help where they hope that there will be help. But I hope, as I said, that this does not evolve into an area where consultants take responsibility, but the authorities. I am also surprised that the revised national budget has not prioritised Finnmark. There, 275 new posts are proposed without any of them benefiting Tana or other municipalities in Finnmark. It is not enough now to grant an extra NOK 100 000 to Vadsø and Kirkenes. It's all right, but more permanent activities are needed. You can't help but notice that this also needs a mind-creating effect. When the owner of a brokerage office at the Churches, which is used for questionable business, says to the newspaper Nordlys that renting it from his side is based only on pure business, because he, as the owner of the brackeleir, believes he is dependent on someone paying for the expenses, testifies that there are several people who now need to change their attitudes regarding the purchase of sex. One cannot as the owner sit passively and say that this is not my problem when things happen as clearly as they do in this case. Information and attitudes related to value and moral issues are needed here. Sexuality as a positive part of life must be in focus. Prevention campaigns aimed specifically at children and young people, and adult responsibilities as role models for young people must make it socially and morally reprehensible to buy sex from another person. Schools, municipalities, health authorities and the population themselves must be involved in this work. The police say it's hard to prove that there's sex trafficking in a Tana motel, but that more criminal cases of violence and other crime involve the place. From such a perspective, I think that the youth in Tana shows a responsibility and an attitude of which there is respect. But it has to be seen as an emergency call when young people in Tana say they want to move away from the place if the whore traffic is not stopped. It is a strong message from responsible young people. When 16-year-olds in Tana tell Dagbladet that it has been difficult to come from Tana, the national authorities have to deal. Young people don't want to live in a village where there's prostitution that makes the village famous, said a youth on the radio the other day. Just such positive attitudes and statements from the youth in Finnmark made me raise this matter here in Stortinget. The overall goal is to remove prostitution, but I realize that it's a project closest to eternity's time perspective. People in Skippagurra and other rural areas do not have time to wait that long, and therefore local and national authorities must together clean up the Finnish countryside for the prostitution of Russian women and men from Norway and Finland. There must be so much unrest and insecurity around the whore environment that decent villagers can again be proud of the countryside. It is the Government that sits on the resources and can organise the necessary actions. That's why I ask the Minister of Justice and the Government about the government during the month that has passed since I left the interpellation, have put in the strategy that I am calling for, and planned a set of measures against the whore traffic in Finnmark. We are in the situation that the Minister of Justice is not present to answer my question. I don't know how the president intends to deal with it, but at least I don't think so that the government or the council doesn't take the matter seriously. I think it's the circumstances that cause it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e933	The situation is such that the President will propose that the meeting be suspended. As soon as the relevant Council of State is in place, the meeting will be set and continue until noon. 3:00 p.m. – With the approval of the House, this has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e952	The decision continues to deal with case No. 4 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e955	I very much agree with Mr Ludvigsen's problem description, which I have received from my colleague, the Minister for Transport. There is every reason to draw attention to prostitution, whether in the case of street prostitution, sex tourism, brothel or other organised prostitution. As a result of the changes in Eastern Europe, including Russia, in the last decade, borders have become more open and opportunities to travel have increased. There is reason to welcome Russian tourism, which strengthens understanding and cooperation in the North Calote. However, such transparency also has several negative aspects that need to be taken seriously, including: the growing prostitution that has developed during this time, by many Russian women making short-term trips to several places in Finland. It is not only unfortunate for the population of Finnmark, it also affects the rest of Norwegian society. Prostitution itself is not a criminal offence in Norway, but it is a criminal offence to promote or exploit the prostitution of others. As seen, police and other authorities are in a difficult situation with regard to the possibilities of intervention and the fight against prostitution. Prostitution is often followed by other crimes. The police and prosecution authority must link prostitution to other illegal activities. So-called insidious activities are punishable, but the evidence is complicated by the fact that the parties who usually do not want to tell the police nothing. It is also illegal to rent out rooms, apartments, houses and the like. for prostitution purposes. In addition, there may also be black money, e.g. the avoidance of taxable funds in the context of prostitution. This Russian traffic has undoubtedly caused concern in the rural communities of Finnmark. There is a general fear of the spread of sexually transmitted diseases/HIV and other diseases, such as tuberculosis. Prostitution activities appear to be larger than what can be assumed to be based on a local ‘customer base’. But influxes from other surrounding communities, as well as Finland, also pose a problem of order. The Russian women like to introduce 1 litre of alcohol and 5 bottles of champagne – which are tolled – in addition to cigarettes. These goods are then sold to the North. The introduction of alcohol is a condition both under the alcohol law and under the customs law that the goods are for personal use. If not, the introduction may be illegal. Significant alcohol use related to prostitution has been observed, which is also a negative impact of this activity. With increasing prostitution, the danger of developing negative attitudes on the Norwegian side is increasing not only to Russian prostitutes but also to other Russian women. We would like to see good cooperation with the Russian authorities on action against these negative consequences of the open and good cooperation between Russia and Norway. I would like from Norway to pay great attention to the fact that we can still have such an open and positive relationship, and let me state quite clearly that partners who have found each other across the border live normally and have children together, do not have to li and be stigmatised as a result of the settlement we are now taking with prostitution and what follows in that cold water. Over Storskog border inspection post, it is estimated to fit in approximately weekly. 100 Russian women aged 20 – 50. Many of the women visit Norway regularly. After admission, persons are distributed over large parts of Finnmark. It is estimated that 35 - 45 Russian women come to Vadsø police district, most of them to Skippagurra, every week. While the past entries were concentrated on weekends – Thursday to Sunday – by buses, traffic is now fairly regular throughout the week with passenger cars. The police's previous actions have confirmed that sexual services are being sold, including: in Skippagurra, by Russian women on tourist visas. The police suspect that both Norwegians and Russians are operating as peddlers who run traffic on the Norwegian side and that some kind of brothel business is being carried on. Trafficking in drugs, violence and threats is also taking place. Some Russian women are fined for the illicit sale of alcohol, theft and Nazism. Russian women have also been expelled in some cases. Recently, it has been observed that there are getting younger Russian girls coming to Finnmark. There is also a more aggressive promotion of the phenomenon in smaller rural areas. It may be difficult for the police to obtain sufficient information. It is desirable that everyone who has information about this activity assumes responsibility by standing as a witness. Within the framework set by law and resources, the police, in cooperation with other authorities, have followed up on various measures in recent years to combat prostitution and the crime that accompanies it. A cross-border cooperation group was established in the spring of 1997 involving customs, social authorities in Tana, county tax authorities, technical chief of tana and police. This multidisciplinary cooperation was concluded in the autumn of 1997. The cooperation on the fight against prostitution was reorganised in 1998, when an expert group was set up, consisting of directors from each Finnish police district and the State Attorney's Office in Troms and Finnmark. The group is led by the South Varanger Police Commissioner and will primarily follow-up action against crime as a result of the more open border with Russia. The Group shall focus on seeking information and developing contacts with Russian colleagues from the Murmansk area with a view to preventing and preventing crime related to the smuggling of drugs, weapons and explosives, illegal migration and offences related to the traffic of prostitution. The aim is for the law enforcement authorities of both countries to cooperate in order, inter alia, to detect. who may organise prostitution. In addition, there may be controls under the foreign law if foreign women are suspected of operating organised prostitution, in order to check whether they are legally resident in the country. Police experience that the problem of prostitution will not be solved simply by focusing on research into the organised part, as this is extensive and indisputable. Similarly, it is difficult and uncertain to put the emphasis on collecting evidence of breaches of different laws. This is work that the police will continue to do. However, it appears to be more necessary to apply different prevention methods to a greater extent. The police in South Varanger and Vadsø have recently been allocated additional funds to combat prostitution in East Finland. NOK 200000 has been earmarked for various actions in relation to this prostitution activity. In addition, the police shall use the normally allocated resources. The border inspection shall be extended, inter alia: with a view to the seizure of suspected contraband. The foreign controls at the place of residence shall be intensified. In general, the suspected prostitution communities are to be disturbed by the police. A more targeted use of visa rules may be considered as a path to go. The offence, carried out by non-residents, may be followed up by expulsion/refusal under the Foreign Affairs Act. There is an overview of the frequency with which individual Russian women travel to Finnmark. There are also issues raised about the criminalisation of sexual services. Critical voices to this have shown that the pressure against the prostitutes will increase, because many will be interested in the ‘profit’ of such activities. But in any case, there is reason to believe that already now – without any such criminalisation – the pressure and coercion will be great also from the backers, hallucinators and landlords of living quarters. The issue of making the purchase of sexual services criminally has been updated by what has happened in Sweden, but at present it is not relevant to adopt anything similar in Norway. This will be explained in more detail in the context of the setting up of the Sex Crimes Committee. Attitude-making in the community environment is important in order to develop resistance to prostitution. In this context, voluntary action is essential. Four departments, among them the Ministry of Justice, allocated NOK 372 500 to the organisation Network in the north against prostitution and violence. An international conference on prostitution and community was held in Tana. The aim of the conference was also to develop cross-border cooperation and to create networks for cooperation. I would also like to mention that a meeting was held between the Minister for Social Affairs, the Minister for Health and the Minister for Justice on the coordination of measures against prostitution. Here, issues related to the fight against prostitution were discussed with a view to further developing efforts, and this should be further addressed by a State Secretaryial Committee. I would also like to say in general that the Government will set up a cross-ministerial group to look at all the overall measures against trafficking in women. A plan for such measures must also focus on conditions that maintain prostitution. It is necessary to look at social measures for women, the need to upgrade the police and health and social services, especially in Finland, and to explore the possibilities for projects aimed at the whorehouses. In my opinion, a number of measures are in progress both locally and centrally, and several are on the way. I will wait for further escalation of prostitution, as I think it is necessary to assess the outcome of the current efforts and those under development. But I will follow this matter closely and in the near future I will travel to East Finland myself. Let me put it this way: I agree with the representative that, in addition to this being a challenge for the communities, which requires local mobilisation on a broad basis, it is also a national challenge, and I believe that that is what the representative intends to do. Those who are affected by this should not feel left out, they should feel that the Norwegian big community stands up with them when they want to create social alliances to fight prostitution and the backers behind it, and ensure that there are other and better conditions in the communities than those that the representative could with gloom describe in the recording of his interpellation. In this intention I share his basic attitude. I also share the view that there is a need to cooperate widely and across-the-board on this, but as part of my job, I will also contribute to the presence of the police and cause concerns in the environments with the tools available. To underline the seriousness, I repeat: in the near future, I will go to the area to have contact with local political authorities, with the police, and, of course, also in this context with the state police, who have started a general and excellent cooperation with the Murmansk police.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e1001	As I said in my post earlier today, the number of Russian women coming to the villages of Finnmark is equivalent to 4,000 prostitutes every weekend in Oslo. It puts it in perspective, and I am pleased that the Council of State so strongly emphasises that this is a national problem and therefore also a national responsibility, and that the necessary action is now being taken. I also realize that it will take time for us to clean up these conditions. But I'm glad the Council of State is going to go up to the area and get involved in the problem in detail. Then I think the Council of State will also see that what has been done so far in terms of strengthening the police by NOK 200,000 to upset the environment is not enough. There's got to be more resources in here, both economic and others, so you can get rid of this shit. But I think the Council of State had a positive approach to it. I also expected that, and that is why I have not made a proposal. This should be a virtue of which the entire great community is now united, and as I also said in my introduction, it is the Government that sits on the resources. Let me also stress that it is important that we maintain that prostitution is unacceptable, but that cooperation and transparency across borders must continue, and that this obscenity must not overshadow the importance of interpersonal contact and cross-border relations. Otherwise, I think it would be an accident if this problem were to be involved in stigmatizing or otherwise creating problems for normal Norwegian-Russian marriages and love relationships, and if children with parents from these two countries were to suffer because of what is happening. I just want to again stress the need for it to be properly cleaned up. There should be no doubt that, on the part of the great community, we will take the responsibility that comes with it and that it will be cleared up. But it's urgent, because the villages are suffering for every day that's now going and this is going to develop.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e1012	Of course, I know the aspect of this challenge, such as that. The representative of Ludvigsen chooses to illustrate this. That's also why it's been an engagement before my time, but I feel a special responsibility to do something about it. I am very pleased with the end of Ludvigsen. When the matter is brought to this pulpit, I think it's important to say that the normal way people meet, get happy with each other, marry each other and have children, is good. It is very important that the settlement of the prostitution, the behinders, does not get so much pressure that it affects these normal conditions, as the representative also stressed so strongly. I'd like to, like him, underline it. That being said, of course, it's that no one is earned with the business that's going on. I went into a lot of the measures that are involved. And when I want to go up to Finnmark, it is to be absolutely sure that I get the best possible overview of the different aspects of this matter, including the different aspects that affect my ministry, but also, of course, as a Council of State in relation to colleagues in the Government. I always think having such close contact is useful, and that's why I want to go to see, hear and learn, to meet political local bodies and authorities, and of course the police. I said on the local radio in Finnmark when I was asked about it, and I would like to repeat it on this speaker: it would also require a broad local mobilisation if the national effort with which we are going to make is to succeed. This requires a simultaneity. And I think the representative Ludvigsen expressed it well when he said that it's nothing less than mobilizing all the good forces that are needed. That is to say, locally by those living in the communities concerned, local authorities and – what is behind the debate here today – national authorities, including the department I run.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e1023	This case describes a serious, unwanted activity and criminal activity in parts of Finnmark. Now it is prostitution that has received the most attention, but a good part of this has also been connected to illicit alcohol and cigarette sales. All indications are that these are parts of more organised crime in the northern regions, which have been brought in through the increased contact across the border of our neighbouring country in the east. The situation is serious for many communities, but I also think I would stress that it creates a negative picture of the increased contact to the east, which everyone should want, and it can stigmatize the group of Russians, whether they participate in such activities or not. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice has now addressed the problem and has outlined a number of possible instruments. First, it is important to clarify how and whether current legislation and legislation can be more actively countered and with a more offensive approach from the police and control authorities at the border. I think it might be a good part to pick up here. It is important to clarify whether the Halik paragraph of the law provides opportunities for more active countering this development and, if not, for possible coming to the Stortinge and asking for changes. I also think it is positive that the police have received additional funds to follow up on the control activities. I also record that the Finnish police in Finland have said that new legislation in relation to the implementation of the Schengen Agreement can increase the scope for control, and I think that cooperation with the authorities on the Russian side should be sought, just to address the backers for part of this activity. We are positive in assessing further measures where the Minister of Justice believes that the involvement of Storting is needed. But on the issue of the criminalisation of the purchase and sale of sexual services, I believe that we should take a thorough discussion on it related to the follow-up to the work of the Sexual Crimes Committee, because it affects many other significant factors. Finally, I would like to point out awareness-raising work, or, as the interpellation says, "...adult men appear to be mindless examples for young people." Nor is there any doubt that some people are renting out premises for activities described as undesirable. At the same time, we shall prevent efforts to avoid criminal activity from disrupting positive and desirable contact and cooperation in the Barents region. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice if he would like to report back to the Grand Duchy on the situation in this area, for example. in connection with the State budget for the year 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-25.ana.ud800e1036	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately at hand. Normally, the President would have proposed that the interpellation debate should continue until the debate was over, but that is not possible for practical reasons. The President therefore proposes that this morning's meeting be interrupted and that the evening meeting begin with further consideration of the interpellation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
