ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e62	Representatives Rolf Rekvam, Haakon Blankenborg, Kristin Krohn Devold, Per Sandberg and Morten Lund, who have been licensed, have taken the seat again. The following called alternates have taken their seat: For Hordaland County: Lars Arne Ryssdal. For Rogaland County: Bent Höie and Kjell Netland. For Eastfold County: Ole Kristian Refrigerated Four permit applications are filed: from the representatives of Liv Marit Moland and Sverre Myrli on leave from 2 March to 4 March – both to take part in a delegation trip to Kuwait. from the representative of Harald Hove on leave from the end of the morning meeting until 4 March to attend an international congress in Brussels. by the Left-wing Group on sickness leave for the representative of Terje Johansen as from Tuesday 2 March and until further notice. The President proposes that these applications be dealt with immediately and accepted – and see it as agreed. From the first deputy representative of Akershud County, Borghild Tenden, there is an application to be released from office under the representative Terje Johansen's sickness permit from 2 March until further notice, for reasons of well-being. The President proposes that this application be dealt with immediately and be accepted. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates will be convened to meet during the leave period: For East-Agder County: May Britt Lunde.ForAkershus County: Rikke Lind and Jan M. Vevatne.For Hordaland County: Thorbjørn Merkesdal.2. May Britt Lunde and Jan M. Vevatne will be elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Liv Marit Moland and Terje Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e157	May Britt Lunde, Rikke Lind and Jan M. Vevatne are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e162	The President will propose the election of a president of the Stortinget meeting in the present week – and see it as a commitment. The President is asking for proposals to the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e167	I allow myself to propose Ursula Evje.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e172	There are suggestions about Ursula Evje as president. – Other proposals are not in line, and Ursula Evje is in agreement with the election of the president of the meeting in the present week. The representative of Ursula Evje will present a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e177	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal to amend the rules for the recognition of higher education from outside the EEA territory.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e182	The proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e194	Document No 8:105 for 1997-98 concerns a proposal to lift three kilograms. Resolutions on the responsibility for negotiation of teaching staff and the transfer of this responsibility from the State to counties and municipalities. The Committee has forwarded the proposal to the Government to allow them to give an assessment of it, and the Minister of Administration has notified that the Government is working on the matter to get a review of the consequences of such a transfer. In view of this, the Council of State requests that no transfer decision be taken before the end of the work. It is not the first time the Stortinget deals with such a proposal, and the arguments are well known to most. It is initially an area for which the Government is responsible and where any changes must also be made by the Government. But of course there is nothing in the way that the Government can take the Storting on advice in this matter, not least in the light of the great interest that such a decision would have. It is obvious that the principle of municipal self-determination should indicate that the municipalities themselves were in charge of such a significant expenditure item. On the other hand, it is easy to see that the introduction of municipal wage fixing for teaching staff can quickly conflict with the principle of the single school. That is why, in principle, there is no easy political issue before us, and it deserves much more thorough treatment, which is now under way by the Government. There is more than one year left until the next main tariff settlement and thus the first opportunity to make changes. Therefore, the majority has come to the conclusion that we do not take decisions in the matter of transferring the negotiating responsibility to the municipalities, as it would have been a mere big business to do so now, but awaits the work done by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e209	The President forgot it at first, but will now, at the request of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and Administration, propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated so that the Labour Party gets 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of replication after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e216	Today's school bargaining system means that employers' responsibilities are shared in practice. Municipalities and county councils have the responsibilities of employers in relation to each individual contract of employment. The State is a negotiating party, has authority to give instructions, etc. This division of responsibilities causes some problems of both a practical and a principle nature. In other words, teachers in Norway are probably the only professional group in the whole of the Nordic region where the employer does not have the right to negotiate and to have normal management rights over his employees. As early as in Document No. 8:12 for 1989-90, the Landfill Representatives Lyngholm and Koritzinsky promoted proposals to ask the government to put the question of who should be responsible for the negotiation of teaching staff, ahead of the Stortinget. At the Government Conference on 31 January 1990, a working group was set up to review the content and responsibility of the collective bargaining agreement area for teachers. After the change of government in the autumn of 1990, the new government decided that the working group should complete its work. The working group was an inter-ministerial working group, chaired by the Council of Ministers Knut Gröholt, where the position was held in April 1991. The so-called Grøholt Committee came to include: the following main conclusion: Today's arrangement is especially in relation to other sectors by the fact that the negotiating responsibility lies with the State, while the employer's responsibility lies with the municipality and county council. Following the evaluation of the sample, the current collective bargaining system is to a lesser extent appropriate as a means of seeking national governance in the school sector. Law, regulations, budgetary decisions, etc. should be adequate school guidance in the same way as for other sectors, for example. the health sector. Transfer of negotiating responsibilities will be in accordance with the financial liability principle. A transfer of negotiating responsibilities to municipalities and county councils will involve bringing together all aspects of employer responsibility. Under previous legislation, the salaries of teachers were determined by each municipality, however, so that the Stortinget fixed the minimum remuneration. This system was modified by the wage regulation of 1948 and by the amendment of the law of the same year, which decided that the Storting should determine the wages and salaries. The change was justified by a wish that there would be a level playing field across the country. There was only a very limited access to providing municipal supplements. Today's distribution means that the tasks of counties and municipalities include the responsibility of the individual employment relationships, including: in the case of: addition, termination, etc. responsibilities to provide the necessary continuing training and up-to-date professional training and to fulfil the responsibilities of the employer under the Employment Environment Act, e.g. security The tasks and responsibilities of the State include, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t to define pay and working conditions through negotiation, to lay down instructions to regulate which positions are to be held in school, to provide for the protection of the position and the conditions of addition laid down by law, regulation or administrative action, etc. at the central level, responsibility for management training and special fields of action in the field of continuing training This can be summed up in such a way that the local government sector is responsible for the budget and responsibilities of each job, while the country is the one that provides the framework conditions. In addition, there are also some grey areas between the responsibilities of the municipal sector and the state. The Progress Party considers that the following aspects should be considered: Already in the case of initial special agreement negotiations, the State should impose requirements which may contribute to normalisation of the contract work for the teaching staff. The State makes it clear that a request for the existing reading obligation system has been replaced by a system that allows the employer to have more than one working time. At the same time, instructions for teaching staff should be removed or significantly simplified. Reading obligations and framework metal regulations regulate the use of resources at school. When switching to another system, consideration should be given to setting a minimum standard for resource use, e.g.: per 1 % students, in order to ensure the maintenance of an equivalent training offer. As part of the right direction of a major conversion, the reading obligation is proposed for primary school subjects. The removal of the bond represented by the administrative resource will give each principal greater freedom to find appropriate solutions, while at the same time giving him a much greater responsibility. The Ministry of Churches, Education and Research should ensure that each school is adequately administered by the legislation. There should be a greater opportunity to organise staff and dispose of resources according to the needs of the school. The specific arrangements need to be amended in order to enable this to be done. On behalf of the Progress Party and the Right, I would like to put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to transfer the negotiating responsibility for the education sector to municipalities/communities.’ [[primary and secondary schools]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e290	The representative of Bredvold has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e293	The right is of the opinion that the negotiability of the teaching staff in the local administration should be transferred from the State to counties and municipalities. At the same time, we are aware that this responsibility lies with the Government, and that it can be done at the earliest from 1 May 2000. We are also aware that the government is now assessing the issue through new investigations. Nevertheless, when we give the Government the kind advice to transfer the negotiating responsibility to the local government sector, it is because we feel that this issue has been so thoroughly addressed through previous investigations that the time has now come for action. There must be very special reasons why the party responsible for the employer should not have the right to negotiate with the same employees. My feeling is also that this question is now winning greater reverberation in teacher circles. Right will recommend the Government to fall to the same conclusion. At a time when teachers are being recruited in many parts of the country, it would be positive if local authorities were to have negotiating responsibilities. This allows municipalities to enter local labour markets offensively to recruit teachers. In Sweden the negotiating responsibility for the teachers was transferred to the municipal sector in 1991, on a proposal from Göran Persson. Among the arguments used in Sweden were: Organisational equality through state detail management is no condition for an equivalent school. Transition from rule management to target school management requires overall municipal responsibility for school operations. When operational responsibilities lie with the municipalities, they must also be given responsibility for the staff. Only then will operational responsibility become clear enough as a basis for necessary management. Shared responsibilities between the country and the municipality have made it difficult to place responsibilities. The system has resulted in detailed regulation of personnel issues, causing considerable difficulties for the entire school activity. Sharing the school in a state and municipal responsibility makes it difficult to provide rational staffing. Many of these arguments from Sweden are also valid in this country, and the experience so far gained from Sweden is: The municipalities now enter into agreements with the teachers as with other municipal employees. The involvement of the community sector in quality and school content is increasing. Teachers experience that they can receive a reward for extra effort. Teacher organisations are pleased with the development and the agreements they have made. The time has come to trade in this area. On the right, the Government encourages the transfer of negotiating responsibility for the teachers to the local government sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e333	This debate is in many ways a derailment from the real problem, because the problem is the level of pay for the teacher groups. Quite exactly one year ago, we had a debate in Stortinget based on an interpellation that went at the pay level of the teacher groups. SV then made a very concrete proposal that teachers should receive a higher pay supplement at last year’s tariffs, precisely to ensure recruitment to the teaching profession. We know that today there is a large proportion of teachers who lack approved education. The share is increasing. We know that it's hard to recruit high school teachers who have a professional depression, i.e. teachers who have university education. This is the problem – recruiting people for the teaching profession. At present, the right has an output in the media that teacher groups should receive a higher salary supplement for the year’s tariff settlement than for other groups. We agree with that, and we believe that it is absolutely necessary if we are to be able to recruit teachers in the years to come. When we had this proposal on the table last year, the right-hand side voted against, they thought at the time that it was interfering with a collective settlement. I am quite convinced that if we are to be able to do something about teacher recruitment in the future, we must use pay as an instrument. The size has to tell the employers’ negotiators that the teacher groups have to have a higher pay supplement than the other groups had to receive, just to ensure future recruitment. This is what we should really be discussing, and that is what we really should have spent time in this debate, rather than these formalistic considerations about employer responsibility – who should negotiate on behalf of the employer, whether it should be the state, or whether it should be the municipal sector. This is a debate that has been going on for at least ten years. It started in the mid 1980s. We know that the teacher organisations have been opposed to shifting the negotiating responsibility from the state to the KS. I think this is largely a symptom that the pay level is too low for the teacher groups. Had we had a situation where the teachers had a salary that they thought was reasonable, I am quite convinced that the problem of who would be the counterparty on the employer's side would be of secondary importance. The important thing for us, as the employer in this case, is to give a clear and unambiguous signal that if we are to be able to recruit people to the teaching profession in the future, the pay level must rise for this group. We know that there is a certain movement within the teacher organisations on the issue of the counter-negotiator. I feel that there has been a movement in the direction that they are less concerned about having KS as a negotiator. In this situation, it would be wrong for the Storting to try to oblige the Government to transfer employer responsibility from the State to the KS. It would be in a way that we here in Stortinget are involved in a process that is ongoing and that, over a number of years, is likely to lead to KS – if that organisation develops in a good way – taking over this responsibilities. But the signal that Stortinget should give at this stage is to say clearly and unambiguously to our dealers at this year's tariff settlement that if we're going to be able to secure recruitment to the teaching profession in the future, something has to be done about the teacher's wages. That's what the Storting should have given now. We in SV are not prepared to vote in favour of a proposal in which we interfere with a process that is ongoing and which should evolve until KS is likely to take over this negotiating responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e346	The central party belongs to the majority who do not wish to instruct the Government in this matter. There's a process going on. At the same time, we think that the process has been going on for so long that it would be positive if the government had been cleared up until next year. The centre party has not discussed this in its group, and what I want to say is at its own expense. I find it difficult to find arguments to defend today's system. There are many and difficult arguments for equalising teaching staff with other occupational groups in the municipal sector. I think there is particular reason to stress that there is a clear violation of the principles of local self-government that local employers are completely disconnected when wages and working conditions are set for such a large group. As you know, this payroll is very large in the economy of a municipality. The salaries and conditions laid down for teaching staff without the participation of the municipalities are of direct relevance to other positions in a municipality, especially in the management layer. It may well be known that the local government sector is very little satisfied with the current system, and that KS has even tried to bring about changes to the scheme by judicial decision. It would be good for the relationship between the municipalities and their employees, the teachers' staff, to get a clarification as soon as possible, and I expect and hope that the Government will place great emphasis on the views of the local government at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e353	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e356	I wonder if the teacher's salary can really conflict with the principles of the single school, which are aimed at ensuring an equal primary and secondary school for each child, regardless of geography and the parent's economy. In relation to this principle, the remuneration of teachers should be reasonably immaterial. But it's clearly important when we're talking about recruiting highly qualified teachers around all the towns of this long-range country. But at the same time we should remember that the normal rule is that up to 90 pst. In fact, the school budget of the municipalities agrees to cover wages as it is today, and if we are to control this further, I see an immediate danger that the textbook situation, the construction situation and the learning environment will be in even greater danger than they are today. Nor should we forget that we have clauses in the private school law that say that the private schools are not allowed to pay their teachers higher than what the government does. Thus, the impoverishment of teachers' salaries and the difficulties of recruitment will hit these schools just as hard in the long term as it affects the public. We have to try to see if not the municipalities, or say in another way, those who own the schools – because there are many who own schools in this country, there are municipalities, counties, private foundations, there are a variety of ownership relationships – and who see what problems they really have, and what financial opportunities they might have, maybe they are the best ones to clean up in this relationship. Status and salary of teachers per year Today is an all-merciful chapter. But how has it been like that? It may have been good in 1948, but what was good in 1948, after the war, does not, of course, have to be good in 2000. Now we have to start thinking a little bit in new ways and doing a completely necessary modernisation of this relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e365	One can stand here in a debate and have views and views on both the one and the other related to teacher recruitment or pay issues for teachers, but the rapporteurs have specifically addressed the issue of shifting negotiating responsibility. Then I really think what the Government has said in its letter to the Committee, which has not been affected by so many here today, is essential: «The matter raises a major problem and affects nearly 100000 workers.» I would like to see the political party who thinks it is a matter of making a decision or recommending to the Government to relocate the employer's responsibility and to uncouple 100,000 employees. There, I think the government is definitely on the right track, when they want to move forward in cooperation with the parties – and the government is then one of the parties. Every time the debate in this House has been linked to the responsibility for negotiation, it has just ended with the wisest thing, namely that it is a matter that the social partners have to deal with. There is no success in either one way or another by imagining that a decision can be made to recommend to the Government to do something in one direction or another relating to the negotiation situation in the local or state sector, unless the employee organisations are involved in such a process. In the end: I registered with interest what Morten Lund expressed – he also expressed clearly that it was his own vision and not the Senter party he stood for. There is one thing that has struck me when I have followed the negotiations related to KS. It is that every time there have been main negotiations, KS has said: Yes, we have nothing more to do than to follow the state. And that's where the problem lies. What would be so much better for teacher organisations if they connected the negotiations to KS instead of to the state, when KS says that they are really just following the course of the state, even if there are some adjustments? But that's not what's my main argument for taking the word here. It is first and foremost that employee organisations, as a prerequisite for finding other alternatives, must be involved in that process.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e380	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2180]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e394	Document No 1 is, in my view, one of the most important documents presented by the National Audit Office to the Stortinget. Not only is there a review of previous years' accounts and a visualisation of the actual accounting audit, but there is also a description of problems in the various states that demonstrate why some accounts cannot be automatically approved. In addition to this, Document No. 1 raise a number of fundamental issues concerning the follow-up by the Government to the obligations and intentions of major commentaries and the necessary measures to be taken to meet future societal developments. Some of the rapporteurs would like to comment on various points in Document No. 1 in the following debate. I just want to first raise two questions of a more general nature. The first is the question relating to the introduction of a new Financial Regulation in the State. I think that what is documented by the National Audit Office's notes, and in and of itself by what is made visible by the answers given by the Ministry of Finance in relation to questions addressed to it about individual departments under the Ministry of Finance, shows that the level of ambition for introducing new financial regulations in the State seems to be very high, and that there is a great urgency in getting this done. As I can read the documents, it is obvious that overall, in the various states, there is insufficient competence to develop the computer systems needed to ensure the safe and sound implementation of new financial regulations. We see that various agencies are struggling to build up the new programmes, the new systems, and to gain sufficient competence for those who are going to be accountants, so that the intention of new financial regulations can be adequately achieved. That is why there is reason for all of us to ask the question: have we had too much ambition in the new Financial Regulation, and have we given ourselves too short deadlines for the introduction of the new Regulation and the winding-up of the old one? This is not primarily a particular criticism of the Ministry of Finance; this is primarily a signal that, in the future, we will have to be sure that we have sufficient competence before we start making demands on the individual departments. Because ultimately, it is the individual citizen in this country who is affected and who may not get the fair treatment of their cases that they are entitled to. When agencies under the Ministry of Finance, such as the tax administration offices, have problems with this, I don't think it's strange that other agencies too are struggling to acquire the necessary skills. In this context, it may seem that those who serve most on this may be professional operators in the market who provide consultancy services for new systems, by requiring the various state budgets to acquire this competence, which means that in a number of cases new systems are purchased and introduced into their various computer systems, and may be offered the offers that come from the major players on the international market. With a slightly longer and more successful introduction, it might have been more possible to exploit your own skills in this work. On the part of the Committee, we have pointed out that this must be given particular attention in the future. Another worrying factor is the question also raised by the Committee in the follow-up to the comments of the National Audit Office on the 2000 problem, i.e. 1) that it does not seem that all public authorities take this problem seriously, 2) that there is a lack of competence in the government to deal with it. We have in the follow-up to the Riksrevisions Document No. 1 attributed to the Ministry of Labour and Administration and, in particular, confirmed that the work on meeting the 2000 problem is being carried out in full, but it is not possible to have any certainty that in vital areas of society there can be so much in advance to avoid problems. I think everyone understands that problems will arise in connection with the 2000 issue, but what must be important for the Storing and for the Government is to make sure that we are so well prepared that vital social interests are not affected in such a way that it causes irreversible damage to society. For this reason, the Committee is pleased that the Minister of Labour and Administration has announced that there is a strong focus on this work and that one will continue it beyond this year. However, there is reason to recall that we are in 1999, and those who have not done the preparatory work to this day will have significant difficulties beyond the harvest in being qualified to take up the job in the year 2000. These are payroll payments, pensions, social security systems, systems for the calculation of people's taxes, electricity, health care, etc. etc. What we should be concerned about, on the part of the Storting, is to give a relatively strong signal that, especially in the vital areas of society, we make sure to be prepared and, as far as possible, equipped to meet this IT challenge, and then we have to tackle the problems that arise, with the greatest possible flexibility. It was disturbing to hear in yesterday’s press conference that the Minister for Health does not feel comfortable with today’s situation in relation to the extent to which the various health institutions in this country have taken the IT problems of the millennium seriously enough. We expect that there will now be a significant effort on the part of the Government in relation to the various levels of preparation. In the end, it's the responsibility of the Government and the Biggest that people get the salaries they want, that people get the pensions they need, and that we are able to ensure that vital social interests are cared for. Finally, let me comment on a special directorate. The Riksrevision report shows that, largely since 1991, there have been difficulties in obtaining approved accounts from the Maritime Directorate. The Committee tries to be relatively round in the way of continuing the criticism of the Riksaudition, but where the Committee assumes that this should be put in order so that the accounts for 1998 can be revised, it is serious. I think it would be very uncomfortable to be the head of the Maritime Directorate if we see that until next year the same problems have arisen that have been year after year. It is unacceptable when, in the context of one special state budget, the Riksrevision and Stortinget have made a number of comments over the course of a decade, and this has not yet been settled. It's just the lack of dissociative forms that makes the criticism not even stronger than the criticisms made in the document we're dealing with. The Committee has selected a number of subjects in Document No. 1 which you have commented on. This does not mean that we do not think the areas that have not been commented on are not important, but in such a comprehensive document as Document No. 1 you have to select special areas that you're assuming have a special interest. Of course, for those areas which the Committee has not commented on in particular, we agree with the comments and proposals for decisions by the Riksrevision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e424	We now have a very central document from the Riksrevision, which the leader has now undergone in a thorough manner. I can mainly subscribe to what he has said. As the case rapporteur for the Ministry of Transport, I would like to refer to the short comment in the vote. However, I would like to stress the Riksrevision's point that the appropriations adopted by the Storting for various purposes of development must be used in the best possible way. Realistically, we are constantly experiencing, regrettably, that in this sector there is no correlation between the issues presented in the Stortingen to treatment and the actual conditions of the financial framework. The Committee also considers that, where there is a need for redisposals, it should be done in such a way that cases are re-examined by the Storting. I think that is a widespread perception in Stortinget, and we therefore expect that there will be improvement in this way in different transport projects. In other words, there must be a better agreement between the Storting decision and what has been addressed here in some projects. Furthermore, I also feel the need to affect the accounting conditions of the Directorate for Maritime Affairs, according to the severity of the matter. It is very serious that the Directorate for Maritime Affairs has followed up the Riksrevision's comments and recommendations to a small extent since 1991 and that the accounts for 1997 have not been revised either. Such conditions should not continue, and I assume that the Council of State is taking the necessary steps to get the matters in order now mentioned in the report, and that this is happening immediately. No one has benefited from such a practice as the Riksrevision reveals, and I therefore hope, like the chairman of the Committee, that for the next financial year's revision we do not experience this kind of unsatisfactory treatment on the part of the Maritime Directorate. I would also refer to the Committee's position and recommend the proposals available here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e435	In particular, I also join the committee leader Kosmos' presentation of Document No. One and the other. S. No 102. Like the committee leader, I must stress most strongly that the work done by the Riksrevision and the investigations they carry out will be followed up by all the departments and all those affected by the criticism raised by the Riksrevision, after we have dealt with this in the committee and then presented it. With regard to the financial management and accounts of the Directorate for Maritime Affairs for 1997, as the previous speakers have pointed out, one, as the chairperson of the Committee also pointed out, sees that the criticism of the Committee is clear and strong. The reason why we can't be stronger in this area than what we are is that we don't have more to go on here. I don't think the Maritime Directorate has much more to do either if this isn't being given not only high priority, but the highest priority when it comes to managing the economy and the accounts of this department. I take it as a matter of course that both the state councils that are here today will follow up and make sure that what has been pointed out by the Riksrevision as early as 1991, and which a unanimous committee has underlined repeatedly, which the committee leader was in, is now being followed up. Because if it's not followed up, it's not just the Riksrevision that's being held for fools, but the whole Stortinget and the Departments – and we can't find that in it. Otherwise, I must stress that in the case of the year 2000 and IT, we in the Progress Party are also very concerned about this. We are pleased that the Riksrevision has had a strict hand on the steering wheel when it comes to controlling the floors and making representations to the different departments. We take it as a matter of course that the state councils, which are to have the overall responsibility in their departments, follow up on this work as well as possible, so that the light does not go and the hospital and equipment at the turn of the year stand still. I must also say a little about a matter that I was responsible for. This concerns the Ministry of Justice and the detention of criminals. That the Ministry of Justice, which is an agency to represent law and order in the Kingdom of Norway, cannot abide by the legislation in force in terms of seizures – according to the mention of what has happened when people have been punished and things have to be seized – I think, and it seems that the whole committee is too bad. So we take it as a matter of course when the Minister of Justice is currently ill, that the person who works is now taking on this work so that we do not come up with the situation that the police districts that have been involved in the investigation referred to by the National Audit Office do not follow up and do not control what is being done, and do not follow the procedures in criminal matters. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the matters referred to in Document No. 1st@item: inlistbox I am pleased that a unanimous committee is behind all the important priorities and recommendations of the individual departments. I take it as a matter of course that this is being followed up, and that something is being done about this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e450	I refer you to the comments of the chairperson of the committee and can confirm that he speaks on behalf of the entire committee when he characterises Document No. 1 as one of the most central instruments we have in the relationship between big business and government. So the National Audit Office is the central tool of the Storting in this context, and it's a tool that all departments and government have to take seriously. I say that because I also want to underline what the three previous speakers have mentioned, namely the relationship with the Maritime Directorate and the Ministry of Industry. The position identified here is not acceptable. I have been at the Stortinget since 1989, placed the first period in the Maritime and Fisheries Committee and was then the head of the nutrition committee. The Maritime Directorate and the accounting there have been completely criticised since I arrived at Stortinget – without any direct connection. But precisely because this is a case that has been lying there throughout this decade, you can experience a new kind of year 2000 problem related to this special directorate. With the clear warnings contained in the vote, which have also been repeated by this pulpit from several of the parties, I assume that the Council of State and those responsible down in the Maritime Directorate are now taking it seriously and that what is clear in the vote is that these matters must be settled from 1991 onwards in the course of 1999 and that the 1999 accounts must be revised in the coming year. I'm not going to say anything more than that, because it's already used so strong words that I assume there's no doubt in the Maritime Directorate that now it's serious. I also assume as a matter of course that the Riksrevision now listens to what is being said from Stortinget's pulpit, and of that as well as the setting understands that they have full support for the job that needs to be done. And if the Maritime Directorate is not able to do that job, someone needs to be replaced so that you can do this. This cannot continue. This will not be a year 2000 problem in this Government and this administration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e459	The President notes that the storm is starting to blow. It might be worth noting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e462	I take the floor to assure the Storting that the Government is also very concerned about the 2000 issue. My responsibility in the Ministry of Labour and Administration is coordination of the job to be done with the central government. We do that through different types of measures. These have been intensified since the Riksrevision mentioned this, and the letter with which we have replied to the committee refers to a new status review at the end of January. It has now been implemented and becomes part of the communication with which the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, with which the overall and coordinating department for the whole of the 2000 problem, will come to the Stortinget in March. We have intensified a whole range of follow-up tasks of a common nature to the state sector. We have also stepped up our efforts towards the part of society for which we do not have a direct instructional authority, precisely in order to prioritize and intervene in critical societal functions such as water, electricity and the type of things that the government does not directly handle, but which we see is an essential prerequisite for all functions to be operational even after the transition to the year 2000. In the central government, the 2000 issue is a line of responsibility. This means that it is the individual State Council that is responsible for its department and the external agencies. This is intensified through our work, but also through a stronger focus on this problem in the Government. This is just a feedback to the Stortinget that we have taken seriously the comments of the Riksrevisionen and also of the Stortingen, and that we now have full pressure on this work to make sure that we get over the millennia with lost problems. It turns out that the major agencies in the state that may have the most critical functions, such as the Rikstrygdeverket, the Railway Agency and the State Pension Fund, have actually come a long way in this type of work. There are some small establishments and areas in the state that have not come so far, but they will be followed up quite intensively throughout the rest of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e473	With my background as the former leader of the Storting Control Committee, as it was then, I take the Riksrevision's notes absolutely seriously, and I give high priority in my department that the notes will be followed up as quickly as possible. The Ministry is concerned that the problems identified by the National Audit Office's observations in our areas are being solved as quickly as possible, and that the agencies devote sufficient resources to this. We have therefore established a close and systematic follow-up of the notes with regular reporting. In addition, the notes are subject to specific mention in the letters of assignment of the underlying agencies and are a fixed theme at the annual meetings and other contact meetings with the agencies. I'm just going to comment briefly on the issues raised in the Ministry of Finance. I have noticed that both the chairperson of the Committee and so far several of the others from the Committee who have spoken have pointed out the problems of the new Financial Regulation. The committee leader asked the question whether there has been too high a level of ambition, and whether there may have been too much urgency in this matter. But he also stressed that this was not meant as any direct criticism of the Ministry of Finance, and that it might be a shared responsibility we have to take. The chair of the committee pointed to one problem, namely that there might be some lack of competence in the departments covered by the Financial Regulation. I should therefore like to comment briefly on what was said. I refer first to the Ministry of Finance's latest report on this matter for the National Audit Office, which is reproduced on page 33 of Document No. 1st@item: inlistbox The Ministry of Finance makes the following brief additional comments: There is still uncertainty as to whether the fiscal service project will be completed as planned by the end of the year, but there is still no need to revise the objectives and progress plan of the project. The Tax Directorate gives this work a high priority. The Ministry will provide further information on the project in the context of the presentation of the revised national budget. The problems associated with the negative impact of the FIU’s current accounting and reporting project now appear to be less and less than before. The tax administration has put in place a number of measures to ensure satisfactory quality of this work, and the Tax Directorate has a close follow-up of the tax administration offices in this area. A little also about the group accounting system and the payment of VAT and the reconciliation here: With effect from 18 January this year, the Tax Directorate has introduced a new machine procedure for the treatment of VAT transactions. This means that all transactions are entered into electronically. The Tax Directorate reports that checks have been carried out to show that all transactions transmitted electronically by the payment intermediaries have been loaded into the system and that the amounts are correct. However, there is still some work to be done to control previous payments. Then I'll say a few words about the tax and tax treatment of book review reports, which is a third theme mentioned in Document No. 1st@item: inlistbox The Ministry of Finance has pointed out the importance of continuing to focus its work on reducing the time-limits for the reporting of the financial statements in the 1999 tax bill. The Ministry has provided that the Tax Directorate follows up separately untreated reports over three years of age, cf. our letter to the Riksrevision of 28 July 1998. The Tax Directorate has now informed us that the balances per year. On 31 December 1997, it reduced from NOK 1425 080 000 to NOK 286 338 000. A large part of the decline is due to two cases at Akershu County Tax Office. One case, which amounts to 409 million. kr, to be dealt with by the Lawyers’ Court in May 1998. The second case, which was one of the same kind, was pending this judgment. This matter amounted to 450 million. kr. This was the case in November 1998. In addition, the Tax Directorate will monitor the current situation over the course of 1999. As mentioned in the Exchange of Letters with the National Audit Office, the Ministry is also concerned with improving the statistical basis for the provision of book-keeping reports and the cancellation of book-keeping tasks. Pending standardised mechanical solutions, the Tax Directorate has asked County Tax Offices in its 1998 reporting to review the statistics and make such a distinction for 1998, also to obtain an overview of whether the Tax Directorate’s assessment of the relationship between failed reports and cancelled bookkeeping tasks is in line with the sample mentioned at a representative County Tax Office with many instructions. To date, the Tax Directorate has received such reports from nine counties. These show that bookkeeping operations have been cancelled in 162 cases and closed reports in 21 cases. The results of the reporting so far show, according to the Tax Directorate’s assessment, the same trend as the sample mentioned. The attributed reports apply in other respects to essentially so-called zero reports, bankruptcy cases and cases where information has been provided that does not lead to any further follow-up. The Committee assumes the establishment of a reporting system for reporting balances with regard to the checks on employers by tax collectors. I can inform you that the Tax Directorate has implemented such a registration system from 1 January this year. The fourth mentioned in the Ministry of Finance's field is the cost of products and employers' fees in the fishing industry. Here it is only to state that the responsibility for the product charge has been transferred from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Fisheries with effect from 1 November 1998. The Ministry of Finance has forwarded the comments of the Control and Constitutional Committee to the Ministry of Fisheries for follow-up. Then there has been strong criticism both from the committee leader and others about an area that is not in line with the Ministry of Finance, but concerning the accounts of the Directorate of Maritime Affairs, which was not revised for 1997. I have a great deal of understanding of the sharp criticism that has been made in Document No. 1st@item: inlistbox And since the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade is prevented from being present here because of travel, I will try to care for his interests and ensure that these notes are taken very seriously in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. The work on strengthening financial management, according to what I have been informed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, is a comprehensive and resource-intensive work. Staffing and competence have been strengthened in the Department and in the Maritime Directorate. The Maritime Directorate, in cooperation with the Ministry, has drawn up an action plan to correct the financial management of the Directorate and implement all the requirements of the Financial Regulation. During 1998, considerable work has been done in the Maritime Directorate, among others. in developing new accounting policies and procedures, enhancing the competence of staff and reorganising the financial function in order to better clarify responsibilities. As a result, several of the deficiencies raised by the Riksrevision in the presentation of the 1997 accounts of the Directorate have already been addressed. The accounts for 1998 have been cleared and adjusted. Work on correcting other issues and strengthening the range of accounts in general continues in 1999. Among other things, empowerment will necessarily take some time, as it is primarily acquired through the day-to-day work of accounting. Similarly, the preparation of the Ministry’s own financial management is also a high priority in internal terms. Many of the issues were corrected following the review of the 1997 accounts by the National Audit Office, so that the 1998 accounts can be drawn up without having to deal with such shortcomings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e515	I think I can assure the Minister of Labour and Administration that the Stortinget does not intend to make a single Council of State responsible for everything that is going to happen in the state in relation to the year 2000 issue. We are very well aware that it is a line responsibility, and that there are many who have to share this responsibility. But in our social system, where we have different levels of government that are responsible for different things – the municipalities, the counties and a number of state institutions – it's just the government as such that we can be sure that we can meet the challenges we face in the year 2000 issue. That was really what was my point, that these challenges cannot be met by anyone but the Government. And if the government feels that it's not possible to get other important social institutions to take this responsibility because you don't have an instructional authority, you have a law that's made so that in crisis-like situations the government has all the powers. So one must not accept that local e-works e.g. don't take this seriously. In certain situations, in my view, the Government has, in relation to such problems, the instruments it needs to take care of vital social interests. But I stress once again: the Minister of Labour and Administration should be aware that we do not perceive it as her sole responsibility for this. Then I hear what the Minister of Finance says, and I am pleased with the attention that is now being paid to the various state institutions that have problems in the transition to a new Financial Regulation. It shall be exciting to see Riksrevisions Document No. 1 for the 1998 financial year, whether it has been the way we all hope, or whether these problems are only moving depending on where we move our skills. What I'm most concerned about is that in this small country with limited access to skills in public and private business, and with such a high level of ambition that we have in all areas of the world, we may not be able to carry this out in as good a way as we imagine. We need to be aware of this when we set demands for ourselves, and perhaps be a little more thoughtful when we set deadlines for when this is to be implemented. It's really quite obvious that when almost all of the floors are going to have their own accountant and the accountant doesn't have competence, this goes wrong. And had there been private companies where one had not been able to make approved accounts year after year, enough tax revenue and others had been there with quite a hard hand and made sure to put them in place with the law in hand. Therefore, it is important that this is taken seriously. The state must be an example in its accounting management for the rest of society, and therefore I look forward with excitement to Document No. 1 for the 1998 financial year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e528	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2181]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e542	Document No 3:1 deals with a whole of 35 issues, nine of which are still ‘for observation’. It is a pleasure that there is a slight improvement compared to the previous year, but still it is not good enough. When it is stated that the customs accounts give rise to significant uncertainties relating to the income side of the accounts, it is a very poor signal to give outwards. This uncertainty has been in the accounts for 1991 and 1993, and these accounts have not been approved. We can't be aware of this, and the systems have to get better. Now everything has to be done to improve the systems, and I expect this work to be given high priority in the Ministry of Finance and the Directorate of Customs and Fees. There is also reason for me to draw attention to the administration of motor vehicles in the police department. It may then be impossible to have both winter and spring before the new instructions for a police motor vehicle are distributed and put into service. I hope that this will be settled immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e551	I have to be very short. The Holten took up the listing of the Customs and Tax Directorate's accounts. I have nothing else to say to it than that the old system of handling the motor vehicle charge, the so-called MASYS, is the main cause of the problem. This system is no longer used for other than query functions. The 1999 annual tax was charged on a new system at the beginning of February of this year. The payment is due on 15 March and will be dealt with by the new system. So I hope that the problems you've seen up to now are overdue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e558	I would like to say a little general about these matters that we are dealing with in this setting. It goes the same thing again. I would like to say from the Progress Party that there is something strange that is going on in the departments and the individual levels – those who are so good at giving others instructions and guidelines to follow to the point and the point. Here we have a culture – yes, I want to say an unculture – that is that one does not have order and system in his own home. It is very good that the National Auditorate does such a good job as they do, and is constantly following up the individual levels and departments. Time and again at Stortinget we are assured that the conditions will be corrected and that the defects and defects will be corrected. Then we are constantly getting feedback and excuses that the competence is not good enough in terms of financial management and accounting follow-up. And when the departments and individual departments in the public and state sectors, which are going to lead by example, do not have the necessary skills, I would say it's as strong as it's time for the government to do something drastic. For one, it is not always possible to apologise to the Storting that a lack of competence, a lack of the tool to follow up what the Stortinget has said, and what the Riksrevision has pointed out. Here we need to improve in all areas. If we had seen this in context, and the cases had come out to the public, I think that both the press and others could be in one, as they would have described it, the scandal project after another. I don't think it's worth it that state agencies don't follow up better than they do, and that they constantly find substitute arguments by blaming others. The systems they have presented to us are so good in terms of both financial management and other matters, and only they get them and those appropriations, so this should be right! And then you see that this doesn't happen. There may be a little bit on the edge of the individual things we are dealing with – but nevertheless it is not. Because if you review and look at all these issues, there is a red thread that goes back here: lack of control, lack of follow-up and lack of competence in relation to the legislation that everyone else in this nation has to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e569	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2181]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e583	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2181]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e597	I can make this relatively simple. The size has full control of this. It's the Stortinge that makes laws, no one else. It is the Stortinget which, through its legislation, determines whether there should be an opportunity for the King or for the various departments to draw up regulations and guidelines. It is through the processing of the law and through the processing of the law here in Stortingen that the guidelines for the material content of these regulations are laid down. In principle, I would say that when a big-time representative – a big-time representative who does not represent a political party – seeks to overturn the responsibility for the fact that there have been too many regulations, to the different state institutions outside of Stortinget, it is completely wrong. The Storting itself determines this, and it is The Storting that must take responsibility if they feel that there is a need to clean up, by tightening up what is called authority law. On the other hand, it appears time and again that Storting’s legislation cannot be exhaustive. There must be an opportunity for the administration to provide regulations and specific provisions in specific areas, because it is impossible to capture all the different parts of the body through the preparatory work of the law and the deliberations of the law. Then, in different political parties here in the Storting, you can have the impression that the Storting goes too far in detailing people's everyday lives. That's a political question. There's no question about how the laws are designed. The political struggle here in Stortinget is to be taken when dealing with the laws, for example, which the Right here has pointed out, the Lottery Act, the Dispute Law, the Arms Act and the Accounting Act. It is not the laws in themselves that are of such a nature that they plague people unnecessarily in everyday life. This is what the Storting itself has decided and emphasised through the design of the law, which allows the Government and other state institutions to make regulations and supplementary rules. That is why a joint committee has said that this proposal should be rejected. We have done so, as shown in the setting, with different reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e612	There is a unanimous committee that considers that there is no need to appoint a special sample to assess the impact of the action on the use of mandate laws. We in the Right recognise, like the committee leader, that the Powers Act has increased in scope, but the Storting itself is the legislator, and so it is the Stortinge who always takes a position on the design of the law and has control over how much authority we have to assign to the administration. In this respect, it is appropriate to point out that the Intst Control and Constitutional Committee. S. No 296 for 1995-96 had a specific and thorough review of the regulations laid down by the Council of State for the last six months of 1995. This is an example of the fact that the Stortinget, as legislator, also has control responsibilities with regard to the regulations designed in the aftermath of the law. The intention of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg to set up the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee was to strengthen the control of the Grand Duchy over the exercise of its powers, and the protocols of the Government, including the regulations, are a key element in the exercise of control by the Grand Duchy. Where an overall control and constitution committee rejects the proposal to appoint a specific selection to assess the impact of the decisions taken by the Storting itself and which the Government supplements with regulations, it should not be interpreted as underestimating the problems raised in the proposal to the right. For its part, the right has been involved in this for a long time and has taken its consequences by proposing restrictions on the use of mandate laws. In the vote we refer to proposals that we have made for decades, as evidence that we are aware of the problems. However, the right agrees with the proposer in a way that this is a problem that still requires the attention of the Storting, and that we must limit power legislation because it can clearly conflict with legal certainty. The conclusion is that in our efforts to limit power laws and ensure the legal certainty of citizens, the Storting itself must be a guardian. We can't delegate it to a sample. The right is aware of the hazards and therefore, through the design of the laws, contributes directly to a restriction on the use of mandate laws, thereby preventing any adverse consequences. But we don't see that a sample should be a suitable tool in this context. Let me also point out, although it is not quite comparable, that representatives Erna Solberg and Sverre J. Hoddevik from the Right in Document No. 8:9 for 1998-99, the proposal to set up an independent selection to review laws, regulations, circulars and other regulations relating to municipal autonomy, to municipal bureaucracy and to municipal resource use. It gives a completely different angle of incidence to these problems. For example, we see that there is a need for a review of the government governance of the municipal sector, but it cannot be transferred to what the proposer addresses in terms of limiting powers in general. For this reason, the Right is associated with an overall committee that a sample in this context is not a suitable instrument. It is the Stortinge that is to exercise this control, the Storinge that formulates the laws, and therefore it is also the Stortinge's responsibility to limit the powers legislation and its unfortunate effects.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e625	It was interesting to hear both the rapporteur's and the representative Ludvigsen's presentation that they agreed with me. They can't agree with me anyway! That was kind of polite. It's just such things that it's important for the Storting to discuss. I guess that's why we're in this room. When I have made proposals to set up a sample, it is to look at the use of the Powers Act, and that the Storting has progressively and steadily given away power and control authority, by empowering changing governments to produce kgl. resolutions and entrusts the Office with the drawing up of regulations. I'll do a special example. In the fishing industry, we regard ourselves as totally lawless – lawless, President. I'll explain how it works. We have the saltwater fishing law that regulates the fisheries. The rules in kilograms. Resolutions have been designed in a very general way, and it will be up to the inspectors and the public authorities in the field to interpret, at the discretion of the administration, how the legislation is to be applied. A fisherman can try this as much as he likes to go to court, but the courts do not decide, or are cut off, to intervene with the free discretion of the administration. Does the President understand? That's the problem. This applies not only to the fishing industry, but also to a number of other industries which have the same problem. It is The Storting that has authorised it to be so. Of course, it goes beyond legal certainty. There is absolutely no legal certainty, and Stortinget has no control over it. We've already given up powers. We can take another matter that we discussed last year, Coast Guard Plan Nordland, which was ready to club in the Government, before the Stortinget intervened. At that time, Stortinget had given up its mandate in relation to the revised land plan for nature parks. The Ministry was empowered to implement the plan without further discussion and without real influence on the hearing bodies. They have no real influence, because the department has already been authorised. I have to ask, aren't there such things that the Storting should grasp? Is it too much to reduce a sample to look at these problems, a sample that could provide a setting for the Size that could be discussed? Is that too much? I honestly believe that the committee has not understood my proposal, so I do not ignore that I come back with it in another form. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e643	We in the Progress Party have understood what Bastisen is after, and therefore we have also said in our remarks in the vote that we think it is important to limit powers to a minimum. The interpretation of the legislation, especially in some departments, is a problem as was the case with Bastisen. Especially with regard to the fisheries sector, I would venture to make the claim that you have good contacts in the department, and that's the most incredible thing to do because we have a code, a law on powers, that gives power and authority to those who deal with these matters. For this reason, we have stressed from the Progress Party that it is important that we have a wide-ranging selection in order to assess the impact of the progressive use of mandate laws. And that's what we're going to put into a historical perspective, because it's clear that in this area, we've given away a lot of power when it comes to interpreting the law. So we support the initiative. Like, sir. The Ludvigsen was in, right had a proposal with slightly different thoughts, but that went at the same time, but it was about the public sector. But the main principles remain the same. The majority said no that we should have a review of the legislation to which the municipalities are subject in terms of state authorities – regulations, legislation, power and authority. In this position, the majority’s reason was that this was primarily a political question. Yes, that's a political question, and that's why the representative Bastesen has taken it up, so we're going to have a review of this. However, on the part of the Progress Party, we will also extend the proposal so that we can see this in a slightly larger context than the one contained in the Bastisen proposal. However, on the part of the Progress Party, we are fully prepared to support the initiative of the Bastesen representative. And as I also mentioned instead: it says in our remarks that we are afraid of the increasing use that we see in this area. It also has to be a point that we get a review that helps to vitalize both the municipality of Norway and the political system. But the majority will not, because it – and we know ourselves there in the Progress Party – can act in such a way that if there is a good political initiative from others than those who have largely had power up in this Chamber, it should be put to the vote. We support the proposal and we think it is good, but we will extend it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e654	In many ways, there is an old question raised here by the representative Bastesen, through the proposal for a committee to look through the powers legislation of the Stortinge. There has been a repetition, at least for the past 30 to 40 years, to ask questions about law enforcement measures and to express scepticism and concerns about them. I believe that these questions should be addressed, at least you have to acknowledge the need for the Stortinget to delegate legislative powers to the government, to municipalities and county councils. An approach to this issue, which is that this should not be desirable or that it should be unnecessary, is not very constructive or useful if one wants to do something about the fact that some powers may be too extensive in time. I think that if you're going to go into this question and have a certain opportunity to do something, you have to separate two issues. One is the number of delegation rules, and the other is how to design the delegation rules. Maybe you can achieve more in the last area than the first one. That means that the Storting must be concerned that, when you delegate authority to the Government, you also say something about how to exercise that authority. For example, questions that the Storting might then be concerned with are:Is it supposed to be able to give clarifications to the law? Is it supposed to be possible to extend the law in one direction, but not in another direction? In many ways, the question raised by the representative Bastes is a question of the quality of legislation. I believe that, as a legislative assembly, we should recognise that it is a continuous work to ensure that the quality of the legislative work we are carrying out is as good as possible. There is a question which is all the more reason to stress that both the Government, which, after all, is most often the proposer of legislative proposals, the Stortinget and the individual commissions, should be constantly aware. If we were to ask ourselves a question about what the Storting could possibly do in this context, it might be: should we require a more proper justification from the Government when it makes proposals to become a delegated legislative authority, thus demanding that this is something that needs to be justified specifically, and perhaps in a more thorough way than the situation today? I also believe that there is every reason to stress that the individual committees dealing with legislative proposals have a responsibility in relation to this work. The government has said that it is an important objective to create a simpler Norway and, in the context of the work on a simpler Norway, it is important to look at the use of delegated legislative powers, look at the large number of regulations and individual rules that you get. It is clear from what I have said, that there is reason to stress the importance of the question raised by the representative Bastesen. But to go into this problem by appointing a sample and believing that that way you would have the opportunity to get a review of this, I think is completely unrealistic. As has been pointed out earlier from others, the situation is that the only way to deal with this is through vigilance in the continuous legislative work – by tightening up the Government as the proposer, by the fact that individual commissions are concerned with this when considering the legislative proposal, and by the fact that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee is committed to doing the job of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee in relation to the State Council Protocols and the control of the Government and the administration. The representative Ludvigsen had a problem, namely that he somehow saw that the proposal that the Right had promoted regarding the municipal sector and a review there had a certain parallel to that. I'm going to argue that the parallel was a lot larger than the Ludvigsen would admit in his more detailed explanation. I believe that state governance of the local government sector and the use of powers legislation have in common that political will to do something about it and to be alert to these issues in the specific contexts is, when it comes to the matter, the only way you can do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e676	The representative Bastisen said in his post that he was a little surprised that the Right agreed with his suggestion, but at the same time said that we disagreed. Here I think it's important for the Bastisen both to hear what we're saying, and to read the Right Comment in the setting. Because we agree with the description – it is quite right for the representative to comment that this is an increasing problem. But that's the way we disagree. For us it's about the Storting, as Bastisen also said, taking power again, but then you can't send the matter to a selection to investigate this. Discrimination between law and regulation and the granting of administrative powers must take place in the committees, it must be carried out in the majority and in the majority. So we agree with the description, but the prescription is wrong – so we cannot go into it. We want to take the battle of power, as Bastisen said, for every single matter in the Storting. That's where we have to do it, because it's the Storing that's the legislator, and we're also going to do that control.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e681	I just want to take the opportunity to make it quite clear that I am fully aware that the government must have the power to do its work, and that of course it must have the opportunity to do so at its best. But it's important that the regulations that are made are not too general. That is what the Stortinget must take care of – that there are no general regulations in place, leaving to the free assessment of the Office what is right and what is wrong. Because it is contrary to the legal opinion of ordinary people when they are simply mistreated by the narcissistic factor in some cases. That's how wrong it can really be. If an inspector exercises powers on the basis of his own assessment, as he has the authority of the Department and the Stortinget under a general rule, that State of law is not worthy of Norway. We have to start looking at this. And we have a lot of cases that we can point to. We have to take that debate. If you don't want to take it in this case, we have to take that debate. That's why I said instead that we're not done with this question. We're going to get back to that, like, in a different form. But it is not certain that it is then the representative of Bastesen who is promoting the proposal. Then someone else has discovered what a good political thing this really is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e688	The next recorded speaker is Jørgen Kosmo. The representative of Kosmo has the floor for the second time and has a speaking time of up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e691	It lasts ten minutes! The representative Bastesen is concerned that you should not have people flying around here and looking after and working at your own head. It sounds as if the ‘their state’ is largely only engaged in troubling people. That's not how it is. There is a legislative framework in relation to the different laws to ensure equal treatment and a minimum of legal certainty in this country. So it could be that the home that is given by the Storting, sometimes gets tied a little bit long. After all, we have the National Audit Office and the Supervisory Committee and the Constitutional Committee in Stortinget, which are obliged to try to tame this and invite the Stortinget to guide the administration. We have a full opportunity to do that. I don't have the same impression that the representative Bastisen does, that the officials in Norway are basically out to harass people. It's not like that. The representative Bastesen belongs to an industry – at least he has done it before he became a magnificant – which is completely dependent on having an extremely rigid code of conduct around his business, otherwise the sea becomes empty. It may be that it is the conflicts in which the representative Bastesen is up from time to time as a professional practitioner and as a staggering representative, which make him feel the situation he has come up with, distressing. We had one case in Document No. 1 Today, as referred to in the first-hand turnover tax scheme in the fisheries sector, where the Control and Constitutional Committee had a comment on the development of the regulation and the basis of which it had been given. There were not so many representatives from the various parties who did not belong to the Control and Constitutional Committee, who cared about that issue when we were dealing with it. They should have done that, because it's a question where you go quite far beyond what I see was Storting's intention with the law. But here we are in the Storting in an exclusive situation, where we have the opportunity to deal with these questions whenever we want, and actually do not depend on any sample. I can assure the representative Bastesen that we in the committee have understood very well what he meant, but we did not think it was a very good proposal. That's why we rejected it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e705	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2182]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e719	This case is a very old case of fall-back. On 5 July 1928, on behalf of Borregaard and Hafslund, the Glommens and Laagen Brukseier Association received a concession to regulate the Sea for 50 years. This means that the fall-back settlement should have taken place in July 1978. Already in 1975, the Glommens and Laakens Brukseier Association, on behalf of Borregaard and Hafslund, applied for a new concession for their shares in the Sea. In 1977, the municipalities of Trysil and Åmvet brought the case up on the case of the fall-back settlement. Nothing happened then, and since then the municipalities have repeatedly had the matter on the agenda. So it had to go almost 21 years before the matter came to Stortinget. The Committee would stress the need to avoid such a long period of treatment in the event of a home case in the future. What's amazing is that it's possible to run a power plant for over 20 years without a formal concession. But as I said, now it's here. When the Glommens and Laagens Brukseier Association received a concession in 1928, there was no claim for a nutrition fund. The Osen regulation provides a not insignificant power increase that is made available for power generation. Over 70 years, this regulation has resulted in damage and disadvantages to both nature and partial property, which in turn have led to reduced industrial activity and loss of income. The fact that the case has taken so long should also be taken into account with regard to the loss of income for the municipalities. In this case, the concession was granted for an unlimited period of time to all the participants in the Osen regulation, and the State will therefore not avail itself of the right to return. The reason for this is the amendments to the Waterways Regulatory Act adopted by the Law of 11 June 1993, which states that without ownership of waterfalls or power stations in the watercourse, the State has no economic advantage in imposing a fall-back. Trysil and Åm vår kommuner can then not be assigned a share of the fall-back of the regulation, as there is no fall-back, nor will there be any future settlement in connection with the Sea. It is of great importance for the municipalities of Trysil and Against this review of the new concession, which is then final, to consider the requirement of nutrition funds which should also be a compensation for natural interference and nutritional losses in connection with the development of power and regulation. However, even with these arguments and criteria, there is no automaticity in the fact that local authorities have a claim on industrial funds, even if repatriation is not claimed. This is according to the Watercourse Regulation Act § 12 nr. 17 an assessment of the existence of specific conditions under which industrial funds are required. In this case, the Committee considers that it is appropriate that the assessment refers to food funds. I am sure that Trysil and Åmött Municipality will manage this nutrition fund according to the regulations, and I am very pleased that the entire committee agreed to increase the amount of the nutrition fund in relation to the proposed proposition, even though we got a majority and a minority regarding the amount. The majority of the Committee considers that it has met the municipalities in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e749	I represent the minority to which the case spokesperson referred, and would like the Stortinget to come closer to Trysil and Åmött municipalities. The background for this is especially two things. One is, as the municipalities point out, that this area is very nutritionally poor and therefore needs to develop business. The second is that Trysil and Åmote point out that a regulation affects nature and the resources associated with it. I think that in the committee there are a few things about, and it gives me the basis for, in my opinion, increasing compensation for the municipalities. SV proposed 10 million. kr and will boast of the rest of the committee once they have met us and propose 8 million. kr. That's good, but SV still mentions proposals of 10 million. kr. but will substantially support the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e756	The representative of Langeland has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2182]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e772	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2182]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e785	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e792	During the debate Per Roar Bredvold has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to transfer the negotiating responsibility for the education sector to municipalities/communities.’ [[primary and secondary schools]] There will be a vote on the proposal first and then on the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02.ana.ud1091e1060	During the debate, Mr H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the concessionaire to pay a total of 10 Mio to the grant fund in Trysil and Åmot Municipality. kroner in addition to concession fees.’;» The Socialist Left Party's proposal and then the vote will be voted on.
