ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e26	The annual report on broadcasting and the day-to-day press for 1997 follows up the Committee's intentions in the last year's debate. Of course, media policy issues will be treated as separate issues, while, through the annual report, we provide general comments on the activities of public broadcasters. In the case of the daily press, it has been treated in summary form through a short section of the annual report, with reference to the annual report of the State Media Administration. I will therefore not go into this further. On the other hand, I want to focus on the relationship between the department, the Public Broadcasting Council and the advertising-funded public broadcasters P4 and TV2. I would like to stress that the Right has been skeptical about the creation of the Public Broadcasting Council. What would they do? How would they do that? The GSC has established itself as a council with strong opinions on what is public broadcasting and on the basis of these opinions allocates the channels. But the Public Broadcasting Council is – and there is reason to stress this – a council to advise the ministry. The GSC must not be seen as a judicial body; it must never be doubted that the editorial freedom of the channels is established. We therefore choose to look at the opinions of the Danish Broadcasting Council as recommendations to the Ministry of Culture, not as instructions. It is on this basis Right-wing states that we take the department's assessment of the General Broadcasting Council's recommendations for information – a bit of a heavy wording, but that's because the committee otherwise says that they take the department's assessment of the General Broadcasting Council for information, and in a way approves the General Broadcasting Council's criticism of TV2 and P4. We do not want to deal with the Public Broadcasting Council, but with the Ministry, and expect the Ministry to assess its relationship with NRK, TV2 and P4 on an independent basis. When so much of the criticism against TV2 and P4 is based on their concession requests and not on the actual concessions the channels have received, Right finds reason to say stop. In our opinion, there is a thin legal ice when the concession applications are used in assessing whether the concession obligations have been complied with. When, in its report, the GSC claims that ‘competitive and commercial considerations lead to less space for coherent and deeper elements’, there is reason to block eyes. In our opinion, there is nothing that creates a broader supply of information than competition. If you draw a parallel to the newspaper sector, you just see that the diversity we have of newspapers creates access to information and not uniformity. If you draw the parallel to the media sector in general and talk about television and radio, it's obvious that more channels provide more information and do not create an information gap, as the majority of the committee now points out in its comments. Does the Public Broadcasting Council think that the best thing would have been a retreat to the old NRK monopoly? I'm assuming they don't mean that. Competitive Norwegian channels must be better than entrusting the ether to foreign channels. Unfortunately, the GSC leaves the impression that the ideal broadcasting image is channels without viewing and listening chatter, mind-blowing and public information. In my opinion, the time period has ended for the longest time, and I believe that the mix we have today between entertainment and information is a good mix, which is also shown by the fact that both NRK, TV2 and P4 are well connected and produce good programs that offer everyone. Another issue that has been in focus lately is the ability of local radios to continue using bingo as part of their income base. The majority do not support the practical mitigation of bingo operation. The Lottery Act must be practised in such a way that local radios which have an ideal and socially beneficial purpose and which do not pay dividends to owners are allowed to operate bingo as a source of income until new lottery laws have entered into force. I note that the Ministry of Justice will now grant a derogation until the new year, so that the radios will have the necessary time for conversion. There's doubt that a few of the radios are lottery tickets. The right will consider the conditions for lottery in the future treatment of the Lottery Act. Until it is processed, we expect local radios to continue to operate radio bingo without being stopped by local police authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e42	It is nice to discuss the annual broadcast and daily press message. Nevertheless, I look forward to the presentation that the Minister of Culture will bring later on in the Storting on current media policy issues. I am also aware that the department will return to Stortinget with several problems in its own matters. Some of these issues are important in principle, such as changes in the law on sponsorship of broadcasting programmes and issues of bans on advertising for political parties. Besides, digital television comes up to its full width. It is otherwise worth noting a few of the announcements from the Public Broadcasting Council, if they are never so much advice. They point to, among other things, that the number of new Norwegian radio broadcasts is too low, in which the ministry is also listed. This applies to both NRK television channels. When NRK 2 only has a newly emerging percentage of 11.1 – which is well below the limit – there is reason to be surprised, which is also clearly pointed out by the Danish Broadcasting Council. The NRK, the public broadcasting channel paid with license money, should go in here. It seems like the biggest rival, TV2, is better here, even when it's about dialect usage. I'm aware that the department has taken this up with the NRK, but this must not get sedated. When it comes to TV2, it is worth noting that a lot of the broadcasts are made up of drama, and that most of this is within the easy battle. This also does not match the lift given by TV2 to: ‘emphasizing that we are something different and more than a satellite and cable channel for foreign mass-produced entertainment’. TV2 also did not circulate in 1997 with subtitles for hearing impairment. It also appears that it does not have our subtitles in 1998, according to the information provided to the Committee by the Landsförbund of Hörselsbehörselbehörde, HLF. TV2 and NRK each have an obligation to administer their services, so that they give a breadth and a lack of supply that defends the special advantages they have received as public broadcasters. After Folkehelsa's numbers, 14.5 pst. of the people's great hearing problems, but it has been difficult to get through to this with regard to subtitles for hearing impairment. It may seem that TV2 is thinking about ignition rather than meeting the requirement as a public broadcaster. Moreover, democracy says that everyone should have the right to information and the most equal access to it. I hope we don't legislate until TV2 sees that they should perform subtitles. Participation in the social debate is an important element of democracy. With the rapid development we have today, it's important to join from the very beginning. Now wear 600,000 Nordics according to information from HLF with a weary handicap. We should try to fix it by subtitling on television. I am aware that through a disability action plan, the Government has provided funds for consultation with the NRK and Sintef. These means shall ensure the development of technologies enabling direct texting of television programmes by means of voice recorders. There are other techniques you can use here. We know that both in Sweden, England and the United States will be the direct TV program text. We're going to have to hope that this work will be continued. We are not worthy of mastering or wanting to do this for all those who really apply this. Finally, I would just like to mention that in recent years one has not followed up on the previous annual reports that have highlighted the need to strengthen the ethical work of the press – not least when it comes to drawing the boundaries of some media, it is important to follow up. I now expect the Department to take the initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e66	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e69	I want to take this opportunity to pass on the frustration that has spread in Northern Ireland after the NRK has decided not to expand district television in line with previous promises. The establishment of district television in Nordland and Østfold was a very difficult argument from the NRK before the Stortinget agreed to this last licence increase. Today, the people of the two counties rightly feel that the NRK has kept them to themselves. The decision of the NRK also reflects an unacceptable attitude towards the Stortinget on the part of the institution. It is not possible to argue for an increase in the licence and in the next round the same arguments and the reasons for the adoption of the licence increase. The fact that the director Kåre Willoch in an interview with VG points out that changing conditions for the NRK makes it necessary to re-prioritize the matter, does not make the matter any better. Willoch ought to know better than most people that the board can't do more with the assumptions for a decision to roll in such a way. The fact that the decision to raise a licence is not clear and unambiguous in that it is earmarked for the measures does not give the board the right to disregard the premises, which are quite unambiguous. If something was to be given a different priority by the NRK, I think they have only one thing to do, namely to get back to Stortinget with the matter. In the case of Northern Ireland, the NRK has in fact not only stated that they want to postpone the measure, but wanted to scrape the entire project. It is worth noting that the Chairman of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of Stortingen, Jørgen Kosmo, has stated that the NRK violates the terms of the licence increase. I also share his view that, in the future, it may be more difficult to hear the licence need to be increased, when the Stortinget cannot feel confident that the terms are being followed up by the NRK. I give my full support to the Northernland District Programme Council when they indicate that the decision of the NRK is a clear breach of promise to the population, and to the requirement that the district broadcasts must get started as planned during the year. I would also like to show that there were clear leads for local newscasts when the new NRK building in Bodø was adopted. Today, new constructions with new equipment are ready both in Fredrikstad and Bodø. Let me also point out the futility of the fact that the population of a state as large as the distance from Moss to Steinkjer will not get their own district television when others have it. In addition, Nordland has a larger population than Finnmark and Troms combined. I am pleased that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has been involved in the matter by letter to the Minister of Culture, where it has, among other things, a statement on the revised national budget is requested. I have noticed that the Council of State has confirmed that such a statement will be made, and I expect a positive outcome on the matter. If necessary, the Council of State must use its right as a general meeting to impose the necessary requirements. The Nordics also have a right to have the offer they have paid extra for a longer time to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e86	A majority of the Committee has, at all points, joined the Ministry's proposals in the 1997 Broadcasting and Day Press Broadcasting Communication. I'm very satisfied with that. It is a pleasure that the Committee is in favour of a probationary system in which the annual message is replaced by an oral media policy statement. This will allow the Size to provide a much more up-to-date representation of media policy than a message allows. This is of great value in the media field where developments are moving so fast and where new and unexpected problem settings can still be reported. The Minister for Culture aims to hold a media policy statement later in the current session. Major and important principles will as before be presented to the Storting in its own messages or propositions. During this session, the following issues will be submitted to the Stortinget: the issue of the prohibition of advertising of political parties and life-synchronisations in broadcasting laws due to changes in the amendments to the TV Directive of the EEA Agreement to the legislation on the sponsorship of broadcasting programmes on the framework to be applied to commercial television by Norwegian national broadcasting organisations; It is clarifying and useful that the Committee in the configuration outlines the role of public broadcasting in relation to NRK, P4 and TV2. The Ministry will continue the dialogue with NRK, TV2 and P4 in relation to public broadcasting obligations. On schedule, by the year 2000, the NRK will have a new text system for hearing impairment based on direct subtitles via voice recorder. Companies with public broadcasting obligations have a specific responsibility to provide subtitles for hearing impairment programmes. This will therefore be followed up by the Ministry in relation to TV2 and NRK. If this does not happen, it will be natural to consider whether it will be in place with legislation in this field, as the Committee points out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e115	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e129	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that no line be given to the individual posts. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e132	In the guidelines for the approval of visits and relief homes as measures under the law on child protection services, consideration is given to the essential child. The same guidelines on relief measures under the Children’s Protection Act § 4-4 clarify that the task differs from foster home in that the home should not replace the biological parents. Therefore, the requirement for this home may be different from that for ordinary foster homes. The child’s biological parents have the decisive word, because this is usually a voluntary measure for the family. There is nothing wrong with the designation of lone or gay as a relief home or a visiting home. The assumption is that the child's parents give their consent to this. The essential needs of the child, as well as any relationship between the child and the home in question, are therefore essential. In the municipalities there is a large and unmet need for children's homes for visits and relief. Safety, care and education are the most important things for the child and the acceptance criteria for these homes are very strict. Through this process, the individual will demonstrate his/her suitability, regardless of sexual orientation and/or life-style. That is why I would repeat that it is the biological parents who have the decisive word in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e148	The starting point for this Document No. The 8th proposal is the Ministry's letter to counties and municipalities of 10 March 1998, clarifying that current practice for the approval of foster homes should, as a general rule, also be taken into account when approving visits and relief homes. In the view of the Right, this must result in a strong restriction on who can be approved, a narrowing of current practices that are not desirable. There is a great difference between offering own resources and home for the relief of children in a difficult situation and the great commitment of being a foster parent. foster parents shall not only replace the biological parents of the child in their everyday lives and take over their role as caregivers and taskmasters, they shall contribute greatly to the good healing of mental harm suffered by the child in the past, and in very many cases they shall also be able to deal with biological parents who themselves do not have any influence on the selection of foster parents for their own children and who may often disagree with the decision of child protection; The task is 24-hour continuous all year round. On the other hand, those who offer to be visiting and relief homes offer their homes and services to a limited extent. It is clear that one cannot use the same strict criteria to accept such an offer from people who believe that they have a surplus of resources that they want to offer for limited periods of time to children who need it. Different kids have different problems, and we need a lot of different people to meet the need for relief homes. In this assessment, it is the personal characteristics of the individual that must be essential for the recognition of the applicant by the protection of the child. With the alarming need for child protection in order to find good homes for children of different ages with different problem backgrounds, it should of course be understood that no positive and personalally strong adults should be excluded for assessment. It should not be necessary to debate whether civil status or sexual orientation should be a factor in assessing those who offer themselves and their homes for visits and relief for children and young people living under difficult conditions. Our society is changing rapidly. Although a mother and a father are the natural starting point for a child, we know that very many children live safely and well with one of the parents, or with one of the parents and their peers. Similarly, we know that a large number of children living with their biological parents experience a daily life that is frightening, conflict-filled and difficult. Growing up with biological parents is no guarantee of a good childhood. For many, having a relief home or a visiting home without a human being can be the best experience, for others, a lonely, up-and-coming person with time and resources to care for a child can be the right thing to do in relation to this particular child’s problems. And for many, maybe a lonely person is safer to relate to, be it man or woman. The most important thing is the child's needs. Also harmonious, resource-intensive gay partners can have a lot of positive opportunities to offer children living under difficult conditions. There may be various reasons why the need for a visitation home arises. The problems may lie in the child’s home, or the child himself may need resources other than those of the biological parents. It is the child’s or youth’s needs that must be at the centre of the process of approving and recommending child protection at home for visits and relief. In any case, the child’s parents will have the decisive word. It doesn't have child protection. Many, both lonely and gay, have good knowledge, competence and desire to be resource people for children. They want to use themselves and their resources to make life easier for those who have it difficult. We can't afford to exclude or suspect people who put themselves and their resources at the disposal of needy children. We all need care for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e167	Here it is important to state that the decision in this matter is how the child is and will get it. It is far superior to the question of who takes care of the child. And no one has any right to have a child in custody either. Here is the consideration of the child and the possibility of a good awakening decisive. In this context, it is possible to provide security, care and care for the child. Everyone who is looking for a home to visit and download must go through fixed procedures to show that they are willing to do this and thus be approved. At the same time, this is a voluntary scheme in which parents receive an offer from the municipality through child protection. The selection of visiting and unloading homes shall take place in close cooperation with the child’s parents. Here it will be possible to determine what is needed for each individual case. Different children have different needs, and may not have been fully covered by everyday life with parents. The reasons for this may be so many, including: disease, drug abuse, poor ability to care for children, or that they are self-sufficient and simply worn out. These can now be given an offer that they can accept or reject. The download home should also not replace the child’s home with the biological parents. Therefore, the requirement for visiting homes is not the same as that for foster homes and adoption. We should also be aware that many of these children need care and limiting beyond what other children may need. An extra amount of visiting homes may therefore be required. This must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. We know that a lot of people are unused resources for this if they don't initially form a traditional family unit. Many of these will do a good job for a part of these children. In a letter from the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs of 15 December 1998 to the Committee, reference was made to the guidelines of 10 December of the same year on assistance measures under the Children's Protection Act § 4-4. This includes: pronounced: ‘It will include, inter alia: in some cases, there is no need to impose age, civil status or a traditional family unit.’;» Furthermore, this letter also states: ‘Following this, the guidance lines mean that there is nothing in the way of the designation of lone or gay as a visiting or relief home provided that the child’s parents agree with this.’ This would be clear enough so that there would be no reason now to proceed with the proposal that was put forward here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e190	The purpose of this proposal is for the proposers to clarify the guidelines for the approval of visits and relief homes. This is in order to avoid discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation and/or life-style. The background is that the Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs of a letter to municipalities and county councils has stated that, in the interests of the child, the practice of approving visits and relief homes is the same as that of foster homes. The Progress Party agrees with the proposers that this was a form of tightening up, and perhaps one should open up a more liberal policy for a time when there is a lack of a visitation and relief home in the municipalities. This is for the benefit of children who are unable to have relief homes, particularly in cases where they may end up taking care of them later, and the child should be transferred to foster homes. I would like to refer to the comments of the Advancement Party, where we point out that there should be a strong emphasis on what the child's biological parents think. I believe that the possibilities to emphasise this in these cases are present, so that everyone can be judged whether they are fit as a visitation and relief home, but one must initially be careful to place children in a visitation and relief home that cannot offer a stable family relationship. I believe, as I said earlier, that, with the consent of the parents, it can also be done under the applicable guidelines to waive the requirement of traditional family unity. Then I have also indirectly said that it must be possible to distinguish between visiting and relieving homes and foster homes. After all, this is an offer to the parents and the kids.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e201	Visiting and relief homes are an aid measure that can be used to provide parental relief in a difficult situation of life and to meet the child’s need for contact with adults other than their parents for a period of time. In general child and family policies, emphasis is placed on supporting the family through efforts for children and young people in general, and on vulnerable groups in particular, so that as many children as possible can grow up and live with their biological parents. One of the objectives of the Child Protection Services Act is to provide good assistance at an early stage to children and families who need it. Visitor and relief home is an example of one of several flexible relief measures. Visiting and relief homes are not specifically mentioned in the law, but are a widely used aid measure under the Children's Protection Act § 4-4. It is not uncommon for this aid measure to be combined with other measures, such as: kindergarten, home consultant and parental guidance. All these measures are put in place to help build on the child’s parents as resource persons. The task of visiting and relieving homes is different from the task of foster homes, in such a way that a home for visits and relief does not replace the child’s biological parents. Therefore, the requirements for accommodation for visits and relief may be different from those for regular foster homes. This will include, inter alia: in some cases, there is no need to impose requirements on age, civil status or a traditional family unit. The child’s needs must be crucial for the selection process. As voluntary measures are involved, the child’s biological parents must agree to the proposal of the Child Welfare Service for a visitation and relief home. That's what it's been before, and it's still going to be like that. The parents are in and consent and are in and decide who should be the visiting and relief parents. Some children may need a traditional family unit, while others, for example: may need a surrogate nurse. So here there will be different needs depending on the situation of the different children. The Christian People's Party is committed to taking the specific needs of the individual child and ensuring that the persons recruited for such a task have the necessary prerequisites to fulfill the task. After that Document No. 8:103 for 1997-98 was promoted, the guidelines for the law on child protection services have been amended. The Christian People's Party is of the opinion that the guidelines are sufficiently clarified in accordance with the proposal in Document No. 8:103, and sees it as valuable that parents and child protection services cooperate on good solutions for each child.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e212	One might not be too spoiled with the SVs standing on this pulpit and saying they're satisfied, but it's happening here tonight. SV is satisfied with the change that the Ministry of Children and Family is now making in the guidelines for the approval of visits and relief homes. With this change it has been established that there is no need to impose requirements on civil status or so-called traditional family unit. Instead of excluding lesbian and gay couples as caregivers in visiting and relief homes, the Council of State and the Ministry have now issued new guidelines to meet the needs of the child in each case. In the case of SV, it is important that the approval of visits and relief homes as measures under the Child Protection Act should be in the best interests of the child, and this principle is now strengthened when the guidelines are amended. As all applicants for a visitation or relief home have to pass through an approval process to demonstrate fitness for the task, it will be possible to demonstrate such suitability during such a process. In the opinion of the SV, such suitability has always been something that needs to be determined regardless of the sexual orientation or the way in which people live. We are constantly receiving reports from social services and child protection around the country, yelling at people who are willing to stand up for children and young people who are in a period of life where they need extra help. SV is pleased that we have now changed guidelines to allow municipalities to use more resources within a pressurised child protection system. At the same time, it's important that we take a step in the right direction to stick holes in the work pile that condemns and fears homosexuals and lesbians. With the new regulations, we are finally told that lesbian and gay couples can do as good a job as others for children who need safety, care and assignment in a visiting or relief home.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e221	Since the Left is not represented in the Committee, it may be good that we support the Committee's position and the majority's comments there. It is good to stress clearly that sexual orientation in the meaning of heterofil or homofil does not matter in terms of the ability to show care in relation to children, and what can be done with regard to the type of assistance provided herein. The same also applies with regard to the relationships between the different persons, the relationships between the opposite sex and the same sex. On that basis, I would like to say that we have had a good development with regard to the matter we are dealing with here. I would like to add the note that some people's wish to misunderstand and attribute to the Council of State opinions other than I think she has, perhaps contributed to some noise in the initial phase of this. I would also like to point out that in many ways we are talking about slipping transitions – from support contacts, through schemes that become something more than a purely support contact function, and into what could have the character of a visitation home and relief home for a little longer periods. There are all aspects that come into play when assessing what is suitable for children in the individual situations and cases. It is also essential to identify the background of the individual child and the circumstances in which the child lives as an experienced person. But on the basis of some of what has been said today, and the strong emphasis that this is also about parental consent, I would like to stress that child protection has a very great responsibility for the help measures proposed by the child protection in relation to a child. The starting point for parents must in many ways be that when a proposal is made by the Child Protection Service, there should be a proposal that parents should be able to rely on and in and of their own accord. I would like to stress this when it is as important as the parents' involvement as this has been done. Finally, I would just like to conclude that what is the main problem in child protection is more the lack of good people and supporters than the need to be looking for exclusion on the basis of criteria defined in general. There has to be an assessment of the individual specificities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e232	As far as I can see, I am the only one of the proposers present in the Chamber. I therefore think it appropriate to state on behalf of the proposers that we are very satisfied with what has happened in this case. The starting point of the proposal was, as mentioned in the recommendation, the letter of the Department of 10 March 1998, which laid down as the main principle that the same rules applicable to foster homes should also apply to visits and relief homes. We, the proposers, thought that this is an unreasonable principle to use, because it is more important to emphasise the difference between the two functions than the similarity. And the crucial difference is that a visitation and relief home is meant as a supplement and a support measure, while the child's original home is still with the primary responsibility. In the case of foster homes or in the case of adoption conditions, the starting point is that this should be a substitute for the child's original home, which should fulfil all the functions that a home naturally performs. That's why, in my opinion, there's a pretty crucial difference between the two functions. It is very satisfactory that the Ministry in its letter of 18 June has made it clear that the ministry has also come to the conclusion that it is more important to emphasise the difference than to emphasise the similarity between the two, foster homes and visitation and relief homes. As I see it, this is a good example of a political clarification process that has led to, as far as I can see, that everyone really agrees on the result that has been achieved. I understood the statement by the representative of the Party of Advance Countries in the debate, Per Sandberg, to the point that he interpreted the party's comment in the vote so that the other parties were actually agreed on that. There has been a sensible clarification process in which all parties should be pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e241	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2473]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e255	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e262	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Ingvald Godal, on behalf of Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party proposals No. 3 and 4, from Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 are included in the vote, while the proposals of the Socialist Left Party are distributed in the Chamber. The President will propose that the vote on the matter be held as follows: First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3. by the Socialist Left Party, then by proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party, then alternatively between the I and proposal No. 4, by the Socialist Left Party, on proposal No. 1, from the right, then over the setting II, the setting III and the setting IV. – No objections have been raised, and this is what will be done. The President will then allow for any explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e285	I recommend the Christian People's Party representatives to vote in this way: Proposal No. One, from the right, we're voting against. Proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, we of course vote in favour. In the balance between the principle decisions of I and the proposal of the Socialist Left, No. 4 we support the proposal of the Socialist Left. In the case of II, we also vote against this. So when we get to III, if we've got a principle decision that we're going to establish a region field, and that's going to establish this on the Grey Mountain, we don't see any point in voting against III in the Christian People's Party. Then we'll go in for a demise of the Brain.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e300	I want the Right Group to vote against SV's proposal. Of course, we vote for our own. We are voting against proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. If our proposal is put to the vote, we shall vote in a subsidiary way for the grey mountain.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e305	I would urge the members of the Central Party to vote in favour of proposal No. 2 – the joint proposal by the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party, promoted by Dagrun Eriksen. For the alternative voting between option I and SV's proposal No. 4 I urge the members of the Central Party to vote in favour of the SV's proposal and against the I vote. With this vote on the two points, I feel that the Central Party has given an answer to the challenges we face in this matter. I therefore urge the members of the Central Party to vote against the other proposals, with the exception of IV. The fact that the message is annexed to the protocol is a mere formality that we must include.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e312	We should then be ready for voting, and we should start with proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the need for a new field of fire in connection with the treatment of Norway’s future defence concept.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e324	Proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Ministry of Defence is entrusted with the task of assessing the limited in-use extension, any extension to the area of existing fields in South Norway, including Hierkin. Good contact and close cooperation with the municipalities and counties concerned is assumed.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e337	An alternative between the I and proposal number is then added. Four, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e347	Proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘Regional territory of the Eastern countries shall not be established.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e361	Proposal No. 1, from the right, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish a new field of fire and drill of the Departments of Defence in the Eastern Region of the Gravberget area to meet the needs of the Defence Training as described in St.meld. [[1998-99]] No 11
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e381	The right has announced that they will vote in favour, now that their proposals have fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e398	The Christian People’s Party has announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23-2.ana.ud1297e450	There is no record.
