ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e27	From the Norwegian delegation to the spring session of the North Atlantic Assembly in Warsaw there is an application, signed by the head of the delegation, Jan Petersen. The application concerns a period of leave from 27 May to 31 May for the representatives of John Dale, Dagrun Eriksen, Ranveig Frøiland, Bjørn Tore Godal, Anne Helen Rui, Hans J. Røsjorde, Gunnar Skaug, Per Ove Width and Jan Petersen. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Hordaland County, Bjørg Hope Galtung, is prevented from meeting under the representative John Dale's leave because of foreign residence. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For the West Agder County: Sigmund KroslidFor Akershus County: Julie ChristiansenFor Hordaland County: Terje Søviknes, Sigurd Grytten and Magnar LussandFor Oslo: Anders HornslienFor Vestfold County: Jan Th. Langaard, Karin Lian and Trond MathisenFor Eastfold County: Morten Olsen2. Terje Søviknes, Magnar Lussand, Jan Th. Langaard, Karin Lian and Trond Mathisen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Hans J. Røsjorde, John Dale, Per Ove Width and Anne Helen Rui.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e116	Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e119	On behalf of Per Sandberg, Terje Knudsen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to abolish the regulation of the poultry sector by taking this sector out of the law on the marketing of agricultural products.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e124	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e145	On Friday 21 May, the Stortingen received a notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Kåre Gjønne State Council Day Jostein Fjærvoll State Council Dagfinn Høybrätten The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the notified persons, wish to ask themselves the main questions are asked. - Then it's settled. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e164	To the Minister of Transport. – We all remember that the central parties before the elections proposed significant increases in road investment, while they in the current year’s budget have implemented 10 pst. cut in road investment. According to the Sunnmørspost on 19 April, the Minister for Transport has stated that the Prime Minister has made it clear to him that he ‘will have no hope of any increase in the appropriations for transport in the years to come’. The message from the Minister of Transport was that ‘people have to think that we are at the low level that we are at today’. If the Government intends to continue the current level of road investment, it means that the current road map cannot be implemented. In that case, how will the Government present to the Stortinge re-priorities within the plan, so that the Stortinge will have the opportunity to deal with it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e171	As the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen knows, the national transport plan will be presented in March next year, and already a year before the normal deadline, the Stortinget will have this discussed here in the Chamber. This means that priorities will take place between aviation, between rail, between ports and between roads. The priorities of the Government will also be addressed, and different issues will be addressed. In my advice to those who are planning on the road sector in the future, I have used the starting point at the 1999 level. It's a good starting point for planning. It will always be such that the amount of individual appropriations is determined in each state budget and may fluctuate slightly. With regard to the fulfilment of the road and road traffic plan, this government and this increase will be well placed in relation to what the previous government and the previous congestion did in relation to the level of compliance with the agreed road and road traffic plan. On the other hand, when it comes to the Prime Minister's statements that are to be quoted in the Sunnmørspost, I have once commented on it in this Chamber and repeat it: When a journalist asks about a district council from Norway has been given promises of increased appropriations, and he answers that the Prime Minister has neither promised increased appropriations nor reduced appropriations, it is up to the journalist to assess which heading he wants to make.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e182	Interestingly, the Council of State here makes it clear that planning for the next road planning period is based on a level significantly lower than the level we have for the current period. However, the main point here is that the Council of State has stated fairly clearly that it must be expected that during this period it will not even propose appropriations equivalent to what were so strongly criticised in the past, which were the Roadmap of the Workers' Party, and much less follow up on its own proposals for road maps. Then my point is that the road development in the road plan has been submitted to the Stortinget, and the Stortinget has taken a stand on the priorities, and the Stortinget is related to the established road plan unless the Government submits to the Stortinget another plan for assessment. When the Council of State makes it reasonably clear that it does not intend to implement the road map on which it is based, it must also be a pre-requisite that the Storting should be given the opportunity to do so. How will the Council of State make sure that that happens?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e189	It will be carried out on an ongoing basis through the annual budget proposals, and the Government will deal with the priorities of the Storting until the Storing makes changes to its priorities. I want to remind you that we are only two years on the way in the current period. In other words, the numbers that we're now discussing don't have to be the same in all of the years that we have in front of us. But in terms of planning, I've outlined a starting point that's right to go on. In other words, I cannot see that the debate on transport in Norway is just about roads. Traffic is train, plane, etc., etc. Transport appropriations in Norway must have a high level in the future, but transport priorities may vary slightly from year to year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e194	Ola Røtweg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e197	I would like to ask the Council of State the following additional questions: What is the government's signal when, in the middle of the road planning period, it is stated that the project, which is prioritised by filling and pouring, is not implemented? In this context, I am thinking of the Council of State's response to the Eiksund Questionnaire and the Government's approach to the road link between Huftarøy and Hundvåko in Austevoll in Hordaland. The same applies to the non-implementation of projects in the main road network which are prioritised by Stortinget. Does not the Council of State see this undermining the road map as a governance document, at a time when the Government itself has underlined the need for long-term governance in the transport sector?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e202	Well, if that's the case, the council sees it. As regards changes to the Eiksund link and other projects mentioned, this is not a reality. No concrete position has been taken on changes in priorities etc. What I have pointed out quite strongly is that it is necessary for the usual procedure to be implemented in the Directorate of Road and then in the Department, and we need to have the following priorities clear to us before we go further. On the part of a specialist council, it is always the case that you would like to do something more than both the road plan and other plans. But there is also a Council of State to deal with the budgetary framework decided by the Storting at all times, and it has adopted a budgetary framework for the current year, and it has this Council of State to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e212	Oddvard Nilsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e215	It is not new that the centre parties have departed from the commitments made in the spring of 1997 regarding the road map, but have now left it. It is obvious that there is a problem with the government travelling around the country and asking for hard work and new toll projects in a situation where the state is not close to being able to meet its obligations with regard to the toll projects already in progress. Does the Council of State not see that the gap between the promises made by the State and the state's ability to fulfill the promises is actually increasing, asking people to join in on new efforts?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e222	I would agree completely, if that were the case. Dugnad is important in the Norwegian community to solve joint tasks. I will continue to invite you to. The share of this effort process can always be discussed. I've said that you shouldn't assume the very large state participation in virtues and numerical fixation or percentage fixation. It can sometimes give you surprises. At the same time, however, I have said that if we are to provide projects in Norway that are needed in relation to the resources available, we need to use untraditional instruments. Toll projects may be the solution. This will be solved in the past, the impact of investments will be greater in the past, and space will be cleared for projects that are further behind. And once again, remember that toll projects are often the only projects where earmarked funds go mainly directly to the projects to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e229	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e232	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister for Transport. The Stortinget will soon receive Oslopackak 2 for treatment, and Oslopackak 2 is a combined investment and a plan of bets in public transport. Oslopackakt 1, which referred to an overall plan for the development of the main road network in the Oslo and Akershus area, was adopted by the Stortinget some years ago. Will Oslopackak 1 go as planned, and will Oslopackak 1 be completed according to the agreed plan?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e239	I probably wouldn't be right if I didn't take into account delays in Oslopackak 1. What I have asked my people to clarify is: what is left of investment needs after the period of Oslopackak 1 is out? I have just received a preliminary answer: the need is NOK 5 billion. It's important for the progress of other projects, it's important for how we angle Oslopack 2 further, which is essentially a collective package. However, when an overall framework is available for more than one year or more years, the various major projects to be implemented must take into account the possibility of cost increases, shifts, and also take into account the fact that they will exclude other projects. What this council has tried to say both in relation to the Eastfold package and Oslopacket 2, is that I now need, and have been holding for a while, to unpack the package to see which elements can quickly reach the Stortinget, and what elements might have to wait for the submission of the National Transport Plan in March next year. My intention for both Oslopak 2 and the Eastfold package is that I will be able to present it to the Government and further to the Storting on late summer/early autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e246	I thank you for your answer. I want a little bit more clarification. You talked about delays and the need for 5 billion kroner. Is that how to understand that there are 5 billion kroner left of projects that are not built? And will you confirm that there are delays, but that the plan is being implemented, so you don't start saying: remove part of Oslopacket 1 to get Oslopacket 2 implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e253	The President shall draw the attention of the representative, Nistad, to the fact that the speech shall be corrected by the President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e256	This is a little difficult to handle right over the table without having talked more with the parties involved. If the President and the questioner allow it, I would like to give a round of answers now and say that what the representative is asking for, is now under careful consideration, is under follow-up and is the basis for negotiations between the parties involved in both Oslopackak 1 and Oslopackak 2.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e261	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e264	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. After the new Council of State acceded, there is great doubt about the Government's attitude to road pricing, or rush charges, as it is now called on the populace. During the big debate last week on the toll package on North-Jären, various signals were given from the government parties about the parties' attitude to road pricing. And my question is, can the Council of State clarify the central government's attitude to road pricing?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e274	The government will come to Stortinget with its position within a reasonably short time. Road pricing is not a new tolling system. Road pricing is a traffic management system for those who want to put it into service. The purpose of this Council of State to continue the principle and discussion of road pricing is based on the Stortings own majority decision, where the Stortinget has for several years asked the Ministry and Government to investigate this. It'll be done. Furthermore, a basis for local decisions on road pricing will be proposed. In a road pricing system, money is a by-product, traffic regulation is the main thing. Road pricing and tolling are not intended to be used in the same areas. This means that if such a scheme is implemented, there will have to be renegotiations or postponement of the implementation of road pricing — renegotiation with the toll companies, if appropriate. In other words, it is not a question of introducing new charges for the sake of fees. Those who had to introduce this do so for traffic management reasons. And then it's a very important point, and it's the Stortinget that's in charge of it. All of these matters will go via road directorate to government and big business, and Stortinget will make a simple decision on how this should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e283	I thank you for the answer, and it confirms once again that the Christian People's Party, which has always been the spearhead with regard to road pricing, is still there. And there's nothing new either, because the Christian People's Party stated, together with the Workers' Party, the SV and the Center Party, the following in connection with the road map that they ‘represents that in the major cities, particularly during rushing time, there is a problem. ... The majority have previously expressed their support for the principle that such costs can be levied in a system of road pricing. The aim is for road pricing to act as a traffic regulator’. They also stated in the context of the road map that this could be imposed by the State. They also said it was positive. However, the main rule should be that there should be local political agreement. It also says that road pricing should not only be used in our cities. Does this mean that we can now actually follow up what is in the road map, that the central government is going to introduce a system outside the cities and press it down on the local population without any local political agreement, and that the government will do so? That's what the road map said.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e295	The government and the state council have no intention of taking anything down on most people. On the contrary, the Council of State takes the view that local decisions should be taken, local decisions at the bottom, and that means that those who have problems locally must also find solutions. I assume that the representative of Nilsen does not believe that this Council of State should not follow the decision of the Storting and the comments of the Storting. That's what I want to do when I'm going to present this, via the Government, for the Storting, and then the Storting has to decide on this. The means that had to be used in road pricing, where the money is a by-product of traffic regulations, are, in my view, correct to use for traffic purposes. That means, in other words, that we're reaping profits, while at the same time getting a useful traffic control.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e304	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e307	I want to ask the Minister of Health a question. In 1997, two years ago, the Stortinget adopted the fixed medical system and successful trials were carried out in four municipalities. Patients were very satisfied with the scheme, and it turned out that especially older people, families with children and chronically ill patients benefited greatly from the scheme. On the part of the Workers' Party, we are very concerned that patients should experience the security they provide to have a permanent doctor. Where is this case now? Does the department manage to secure medical coverage?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e316	On the first question, I would like to answer that the Ministry has actively worked on the implementation of the Stortinget decision in a committed cooperation with the Municipal Councils and the Norwegian Medical Association, as Stortinget provided. Proposals for legal bases and regulations for the scheme have been sent for consultation, and we are in the process of putting the last hand on an outright proposition to the Stortinget, which will provide the Stortinget with a wide-ranging discussion of the legal basis and the regulatory basis for the implementation of the fixed medical regime, which we assume will be implemented from 1 January 2001, in line with what happened at the last budgetary procedure. There has been constructive cooperation between the parties, and I hope that we will be able to provide a good basis for implementing a reform which I believe, like the representative of Eyeågen, is appropriate for the Norwegian population.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e323	In Denmark, there has been a fixed medical system for many years, and the experience from it is positive. It also turns out that the medical coverage in the districts has improved after some time, because the fixed medical system also leads to reasonable time use for doctors, and patients do not tell their life story again and again to ever-new doctors. Does the Council agree with this assessment that in the long term there can also be better medical coverage by introducing a fixed medical device?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e328	I agree that a fixed medical device will contribute to greater stability in medical/patient contacts and greater confidentiality. It will certainly also contribute to a better and more rational use of the entire medical resources we have, because then it avoids what is commonly called medical shopping, i.e. a use of medical resources that are not rational. What is the biggest challenge in the implementation of the fixed medical system is that in large parts of the country we have a far too poor medical coverage, and this has meant that in 1999 we have strengthened incentives to strengthen both education, recruitment and, not least, to try to make it easier for us to be doctors on the outskirts, where we often have to be alone.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e335	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e338	I want to ask a question to the Council of State. In the context of the 1999 agricultural settlement, the State and the farmers’ organisations have come to the conclusion that the possibility of establishing co-operations in milk production should be limited. It is now only to be accepted that a maximum of three participants are joining together. There are good arguments in itself to limit the size of co-farms in milk production; it is about taking care of a Norwegian small-scale farm. But a limit of three participants is strange. Then three uses, each with a quota of 200,000 litres of milk, will be allowed to merge. But four uses, each with a quota of 60,000 litres of milk, will be stopped. What is the reason why the Council of State has accepted that such strange limits are set in the agricultural settlement of the year?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e345	On several occasions, the Council of State has pointed out that I believe that the system of co-operation in milk production will be efficient and can be further developed both on the basis that this is a good form of cooperation and at the same time a more effective exploitation of part of the investments made in a costly production, which one has in milk production. Having said that, I would like to say that it has also been a clear objective that this should not develop into a form of industrialisation that is far too large and can therefore be detrimental to the objectives of having a small-scale agricultural policy in Norway as well. That's why this roof is now set. In the past, it has been free to have as many participants as possible, so this is a new step taken through the agricultural agreement that is now being dealt with by the Stortinge. The reason why a person chooses to go on the number of members, is, from my point of view, that these cooperatives should be such that a participant who uses the type of production, and this is then reflected in a joint venture where three users join, and it seems to me at this point to be an appropriate size of these cooperatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e355	I thank you for your answer. On several occasions, the Council of State has pointed to co-operation as an important element in the debate on future agricultural policy. Now, in my opinion, the question of the size of a joint venture is being taken into account and is being tried in the agricultural settlement. So it is a question of negotiation. Other issues of co-operation need to be addressed in the Single Market Communication on agricultural policy. In my view, the question of limiting the size of a joint venture is a very important agricultural policy issue. Now this is being tried to avoid political treatment by making it a negotiation case. My question then has to be: why is the question of a restriction included in the agricultural settlement, while all other questions have to be addressed in the forthcoming grubbing-up report?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e366	It's not that easy to satisfy everyone's wishes. Governments have been criticised in the past for pushing most questions ahead and up to the agricultural notification. So here he's been trying to take a position on a question. For me, it is important that this limitation comes now, so that the issue of the size of a joint venture does not lie as an open terrain until the fall. Of course, if the Ministry, the Council of State and the Government want other assessments, it is free to re-examine the question in the context of the notification. Of course, the big deal will also be able to debate what is coming to Stortinget in connection with the communication. But the Council of State has found it necessary to put this restriction now, as we have seen trends that this could bring about a development that is not desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e375	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e378	Can we believe that it is not the Council of State's intention to drag the issue of co-operation away from political management, and that we are free to make a total assessment of this when we hope to manage the agricultural message quite soon? The second question is the reality of the matter. For us, this seems strange with the number of actors, and I didn't think the council responded very well to it. That the farmers' organisations are entitled to do so is a good thing. However, why did the State Council not primarily show the agricultural message, or secondaryly addressed other issues that are more relevant here, for example. this with how many litres, that is, how much allowance is the roof – that is what will say if it is industrial-like production or not – and possibly the criterion for distance from the new use? I'd like to have the Council's reflections on this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e385	In my first answer, I have tried to justify why a user uses the number of participants: it is based on these having a cooperative community in the cooperative, and in the country's opinion, three people are an appropriate cooperative structure in the field of co-operation. This fact that it is now part of the agricultural structure is related to the fact that the economic instruments relevant to the common agricultural policy are also included in the agricultural policy; the amount of the subsidies and the limits to which they relate in relation to co-operation as such. In this respect, the Council of State does not consider it irrelevant that the question of the number of such Community solutions should also be considered. But the political arena will be open, not least in relation to what is involved in the agricultural notification, where co-operation as such and cooperation solutions will become a central theme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e392	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e395	The Minister of Transport has now had a little rest, so now a new question may be relevant. There is broad political consensus — including the centre parties — about the need to strengthen public transport in Norway. Now it turns out, according to a very recent report by the Transport Economic Institute, that public transport in the larger cities has suffered a fall. Some of the reasons are that there have been reduced subsidies, which have led to tariff increases and passenger disembarkation. This must be the opposite of the desire of the central government. Is the Minister for Transport concerned about this development? And if he's worried, what does the central government intend to do to reverse the trend and achieve the goal of increasing public transport in the larger cities? What do you want to do with the economy? After all, the central government, like former workers’ party governments, has been cut off from public transport subsidies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e404	A reduction in public transport concerns this Council of State. It worries this Government, and I hope it also worries Stortinget. I recognise that this report shows the opposite of what was desirable development. But I must also say that there are many players on the road here. I understand the representative, Inge Myrvoll, so that he wants the state to step in and direct the priorities of the county councils and the use of instruments for public transport. I am concerned about this, as the collective responsibility lies mainly with the municipalities and municipalities. But I am fully aware that over a few years a significant efficiency gain has been put in place in relation to the local economy, an efficiency gain that may have been too high. Therefore, there is reason to raise the question of whether the assumptions for the efficiency gain should be adjusted. I would also like to remind you that transportation is one of the few areas where there is left free income. I acknowledge that the county councils are facing a tough choice when you are going to match earmarked appropriations with free allocations and thus take more easily from some areas than from others. My conclusion is that this is a theme that will be carefully followed up, but I do not see it right today to intervene in the priorities of the county councils.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e415	In many ways, the Government intervenes, among others. the annual cuts aimed at public transport on the basis of a so-called efficiency gain. Instead of using the potential efficiency gain to increase public transport, it becomes a cut. And then there's another way to do it than to override, there's a way you can motivate. I want to quote from the Adult Declaration, and then ask the question about how this is to be realized, because I guess the Center Parties had an idea to realize it. It says the following: ‘Central government will give priority to public transport rather than private car transport in cities and agglomerations. The provision of public transport needs to be improved in terms of travel time, more frequent departures and comfort. Prices must be actively used to promote the use of the public transport offer.’ In other words, clear objectives, and I assume that the Government has some means of achieving those objectives without necessarily overstepping the county council.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e427	Some of the instruments have affected me so far earlier today, and that is the winding-up of the transport budget. I have tried to say that it is not just roads that are on the transport budget. There are aircraft that are railway, and there is also some degree of public transport. In other words, within a total budget for transport, we will have to look at the distribution between the different actors and the budgetary resources available to them. So we'll also be motivating through the heads and ears to increase the collective share. With regard to the annual cuts referred to in the Community economic proposal, this will also need to be assessed on an ongoing basis. I have no problem seeing that this can beat both ways. Originally, there was an efficiency gain, and an environmental benefit should also be obtained. Now we have to consider whether this has really happened.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e434	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e438	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. The negotiated agricultural agreement will increase food prices in Norway by approx. 1 pst. Isolatedly, it is not much, but we are already at the top of the world, and our neighbouring countries will reduce their prices in the future under the agricultural reform in the EU. We also have the challenges of low fees in Sweden, WTO negotiations, etc. Kari and Ola Nordmann walrus to Sweden. This year's border trade leakage will set a new record of over 7 billion kroner. What will the Council of State now contribute to improving the framework conditions and competitiveness of Norwegian agricultural products?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e449	The negotiated agricultural settlement will be dealt with by the Stortinget. It's true, as the representative Hedstrøm refers to, that in this settlement there is a price withdrawal of 330 million. kr., which will have an average effect on food prices of approx. 1 pst. and an effect in the consumer price index of 0,1 pst. In relation to the increase in prices elsewhere in society, this is not largely due to the impact of the agricultural structure itself. Let's do this, for example. the last wage settlement and looking at its significance for the creation of the price from producer to market, we will see that a regular wage settlement has the same effect on the price of the goods in the basket of the consumer as the agricultural settlement. At least it is important to take into account that it is not the only agricultural settlement that determines the price you have to pay at the store. In addition, the Ministry has reduced a sample looking at price formation in the market. The committee is about to complete its work, which will be completed in the department only next month, and this will provide a basis for us to compare this partly with price formation in Sweden. I think this is going to be an interesting document to get insight into also for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e456	Norway continues to record negatively in this area. I have mentioned the border trade leakage, it will pass 7 billion kroner to Sweden this year. We also have the most expensive agriculture, except Switzerland, says a fresh OECD report. And because of the huge subsidies injected into Norwegian agriculture, we have largely overproduction of all common traditional agricultural products. And then we'll put the record number. 3 this year: meat will be dumped abroad — more than 9000 tonnes of pigmeat and beef. There are hundreds of trailers that will carry this out and dump it at world market prices and heavenly prices all the way down to $5. kilos. What will the Council of State do to improve the performance of consumers in Norway and to clean up this organized madness?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e463	It is not unknown that among political parties there are a number of different views on agricultural policy in general. Now we have a political majority who want an agricultural policy that is such that you have an agricultural policy across the country, and it costs something. In relation to the production potential and conditions in other countries, it is clear that we have relatively expensive agriculture, if we are to maintain this as a small-scale agriculture, as was said earlier today. Otherwise, I see with concern the increase we have in the border trade and have understood that the Minister of Finance has stated that he wants to look into it and in what way it works in general. This price formation survey carried out by our department, in cooperation with many other actors who were involved in and carried out this project, may also provide answers to those questions. But otherwise, I share the concern about the growth of border trade.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e470	Ivar Kristiansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e473	It is asked whether the state council with open eyes can almost be said to go in to increase the trade leakage to our neighbouring countries, all the time we see that the shielding aid in Norway last year increased by 5 pst., to a level that is twice the average in the OECD. The key question then must be whether you do not give up on the situation we have, cf. the enquiries of HSH, NHO and NNN, where a lover Government to do something about these issues because of this problem. The further question in this regard must simply be whether Norwegian farmers are not doing a bear service by removing themselves so dramatically in terms of the Norwegian price level and the price level that Norwegians can achieve by going and trading in Swedish shops, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e480	Of course, Norwegian farmers are also entitled to have income developments that are reasonable compared to other groups in society. The question then is how do we let this group get such an increase in pay. Is it through price in the market, is it through budgetary appropriations, is it through a strong structural change in Norwegian agriculture, or is there anything else that needs to be changed in the agricultural policy itself? The whole of this complex will be given the opportunity to debate in the context of the agricultural communication. On the part of the Council of State, it is an objective to maintain an agricultural policy that enables us to operate agriculture throughout the country, and it will have consequences in terms of costs. This is then a political priority that the Storting must decide on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e487	So we're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e490	I have a question for the Minister of Health, a question that I regret to say is highly topical because it concerns the situation of the allergy sufferers – and we are in the middle of the pollen season. I am aware that Norway’s Asthma and Allergy Association and the National Association of Heart and Pulmonary Disease have sent letters to the Department – yes, even two letters – without any reply, not even that the Department has received the letters. In the letters, a ministry is calling for the treatment of a new anti- asthma medicinal product, which is said to be a breakthrough in the treatment of asthma stocks. I then have two questions for the Minister of Health – firstly, does he agree that it may not be an expression of the very best way of administration not to reply to a letter you receive, nor to give a receipt that the letters have actually been received? And secondly, considering that we are in the middle of the pollen season and unfortunately many people suffer from asthma, will the Minister of Health continue the ministry's work on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e499	The case concerns the question of the inclusion in the blue prescription list of a drug available in the Norwegian market. As the representative of Høegh is well known, such a procedure will necessarily take some time, because both the Medical Products Control and the National Agency will have to make their assessments before the department can take a position. And if the department decides to recommend admission to the blue prescription list, in most cases it will be a budgetary matter because it can be a major extra expense to the population. In this case, the matter has now come to the department. It is to be assessed and clarification in the department is imminent. If the department then wants to apply for such an admission to the blue prescription list and thus subsidise the price, the matter will be brought to Stortinget as a budgetary matter. Otherwise, I will immediately agree that a letter should be answered – there is no doubt about it. I'll make sure it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e508	That was a -- hopefully -- very nice answer. I hope that the ministry can now give a positive answer, because Norway, as I understand it, is in a special position when we have not yet given any kind of reimbursement of this medicine, which, as I have been informed, is so-called cortisone-free – that means that there are far less side effects than astmap Asians are currently exposed to. It is also very effective, as a large majority of those afflicted by asthma or allergies can use it. So I hope – and I think not least the patients do – that the department can make its positive recommendation before the polling season is completely over. Astmap Asians have of course plagued the whole year, so whenever it comes, it's positive, but we had hoped that it might come in connection with the revised national budget. When this is not possible, I hope the department will find a solution that will benefit patients as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e518	The matter will be dealt with seriously, which the representative of Høegh now imposes on the Minister of Health. I cannot go into the facts of the matter, but it is of such a scale that it will have to be dealt with in relation to the Storting in a budgetary context. So I think the hopes that any general recording on the blue prescription list could be clarified also in relation to the Storting in the current pollen season are optimistic. However, I would like to point out that individual patients with high expenditures have the opportunity to apply on an individual basis for reimbursement based on the contribution scheme in force in the CRS.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e525	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e528	I would like to be allowed to address my question to the Minister for Transport. Measures are now being taken to correct the deficiencies that were at the Gardermoen in winter. According to the airlines, it seems that the main problem at Gardermoen in the future will be the lack of air traffic controllers. I have become aware that due to the general lack of air traffic controllers in Norway it has been notified in advance approximately. 100 uncovered guards during the approach control in smoke during the summer holiday settlement. Can the Council of State respond to what has been done to avoid this situation and what consequences will this have for passengers in the summer? That's what the concern is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e537	The Council of State is not aware of the specific figures with which the representative operates in terms of summer settlement. I would therefore have to go back and get this further examined. But: As a starting point, there is currently a clear lack of air traffic controllers in Norway. I therefore need to stress that this is a matter that has been taken very seriously in recent times, and so far also in the 1990s, and in the early 1990s a new way of training air traffic controllers was created, and agreements were reached with air traffic controllers in the case of working time and overtime. I imagine that during the year 2000, we will come out reasonably useful in terms of Gardermoen and Oslo control centre. But I have to say in this Chamber that, on a national basis, we will not be in the target of the coverage of needs in the year 2000. The Aviation Administration usually trains its air traffic controllers at courses in England and practice training in Norway. The training capacity limitation is in the number of aerodromes with satisfactory traffic composition and volume. Over the 1990s, existing training capacities have been used and 120 of the country's 370 air traffic controllers have been trained between 1989 and 1998. We have further purchased educational capacity in Sweden and Canada. We have 13 aspirins in Sweden and 15 in Canada. The special feature of these contracts is that the aspirants are carried right up to the time of certification in the respective countries. When they return to Norway, they are fully trained. We will continue to do this and conclude agreements with neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e550	This is all right. We're familiar with this. But now I'm not talking about what can be done in the long term. I'm really worried about what might happen this summer. That's the acute situation I'm talking about. What will this Council of States do to prevent chaos on the main Gardermoen airfield this summer as a result of the lack of air traffic controllers? In fact, I expect urgent measures to be put in place to remedy this situation, so that air passengers do not again experience to wait because chaos arises on the Gardermoen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e555	No one is born as an air traffic controller here to land. In other words, they have to go through an education period. They have to pass through a qualification period. Those who should have served today to meet the need should have been cleared more or less three or four years ago. What we're about to do is we're about to prepare for the situation that we're in today not to arise in the next few years. With regard to the specific summer situation, all forces will be deployed, both in terms of relocations and in terms of efficiency improvement, so that we can see air traffic services as a whole. But I can't here and now from Stortinget's pulpit confirm that there won't be any problems during the increased traffic as it usually is in a summer season.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e562	Inge Myrvoll – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e565	As you can see, there's a queue behind the speaker's chair, not just on the Gardermo. One thing is the training of air traffic controllers, another is the need for air traffic controllers. It's possible to do something about the need. The opening of the main airport at Gardermoen has increased air traffic, while the increase in passengers has not occurred. Among other things, we have has had an environmental problem for that reason. An empty aeroplane is operated in this country as never before. Then there's another angle to solving an immediate problem, not training air traffic controllers, because it's a longer-term strategy, but looking at what can be done to reduce air traffic when there's no need for it. It's just about a competition that's grown so strong that companies are running short, and the environment is suffering. Is it possible, through charging policies and other measures, to motivate companies to fly full aircraft instead of empty aircraft? Is it possible to put in place measures to encourage the reduction of air traffic and thus the need for air traffic controllers? It will be a good environmental policy, and it will solve the acute problems we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e577	The representative Myrvoll points to a very important area in the context of the situation we have come up with. Given the strong growth in the number of flights in 1998 and 1999, the manning situation has, of course, deteriorated. The expected demand for both newly-trained and foreign air traffic controllers will gradually remedy the situation in the long term, but not already today. So we've been thinking about those paths as well. With regard to the regulation of free competition in the air, this is a bit of a long-term idea. It's free opportunity to establish and fly from the Gardermo. This means, in other words, that as long as the airlines see their service to the system they have today, it is difficult for the authorities to imagine measures other than long-term charges. In addition, it is amazing in the environmental context that Stortinget now moves from seat tax to passenger tax, which was a regulation itself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e584	The President will try to wind up the queue of representatives who want to land on the pulpit. Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e589	Now the Council of State refers to the increase in the number of flight movements. But it's the government that approves the increase in the number of flights, and last autumn this government approved a significant increase in the number of flights across the Gardermo without having any certainty that air traffic controllers had the capacity to meet the increased traffic. Was that a reasonable decision?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e595	If the decision had been taken unilaterally last year without any previous leadership, some of this criticism could be directed against this government and against the state councils that have been responsible in this area. But it is that when the Gardermo was planned and started, an increased level of flight movements and capacity was foreseen. The airlines had reason to believe and expect that their needs were met. That's why it's just to admit in retrospect that the number of flight movements, the number of traffic movements performed, were larger than we were able to handle at the Gardermoen in the start-up phase. We expect this to be under control during the summer, and at least to the winter coming, but I can take self-criticism that we did not have enough capacity to carry out the number of flight movements it had added.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e600	Christopher Stensaker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e603	When we know that thousands are applying for admission to air traffic controller school, and that there are only a few that are not available, there must be a mistake in recording this education here in Norway. Before going to the recording test, you might want to take a course in what it all goes on. The impression may be that admission is prevented in order to protect a profession without any safety justification, as samples are taken along the way in education. Experienced air traffic controllers from other countries are also denied work if they do not know enough Norwegian, even if the language of the control tower is English. Will the Council of State look at this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e612	First of all, there's a selection already on admission. There are also some cases of rejection and selection on the road, and the last round of a final examination. It's probably like in society, for the rest, a process you're through, and I think it's very difficult to go into the content of education itself right now. However, I have noticed what the representative has said and will take this further. Let me say on the issue of foreign air traffic controllers, that the Swedish Aviation Agency has taken the initiative to change the legislation. The requirement for Norwegian citizenship is gone, so that foreign air traffic controllers can be hired. During March 1999, three Swedish air traffic controllers were added, at the Oslo control centre in Røken – one – and at the Gardermoen control tower. There have been further offers of a job sent to several Swedish and Danish applicants. We're on our way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e619	Then we're on our way to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e622	My question goes to the Minister of Health. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has withheld approx. 190 million. kr to the counties which they deem legitimate to be entitled to receive treatment in proportion to DRG prices in 1998. Lack of payments to county councils for treatment with input-based funding carried out in 1998 will result in a reduction in treatment capacity in the 1999 operating term, which I personally do not believe the majority of the population can accept. Will the Minister of Health contribute to restoring the amount due to the county councils for the implementation of patient treatment in 1998 and to the reduction in outpatient tariffs during the examination of the revised national budget by the Finance Committee for 1999?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e631	The activity of Norwegian hospitals has increased significantly in 1998. It's a pleasure, because it's led to more people getting help, and the number of interruptions to the waiting guarantee has fallen dramatically. This leads to an additional need to settle the year 1998, which is due to the accrual scheme in arrears. The government has proposed 315 million. more to the hospitals in the revised national budget as a result. In the recording of activity by hospitals in 1998, some errors have been made, and this is the responsibility of the department to check. It is the case that hospitals have registered activities that do not fall within the scope of input-driven funding, such as: medical and outpatient activities. We can't settle for that. Some incorrect coding has also been used, and in some counties a marked conversion of registration practices, which has given an unintended high financial settlement, has been carried out from two to four times as much as the actual costs of this activity. The Ministry would not fulfil its control responsibilities if you did not go through this and took action in cases where you believe that there were errors. We now have a dialogue with the county councils concerned who themselves believe that they can prove that they are right and the department is wrong about some of these points. We meet them individually this week and next week, and I want to say that from my side it is not up to us to change the ministry's arrangements if there is evidence that we have been wrong about any point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e640	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, and I dare ask: Does the Minister of Health think that some hospitals have deliberately made calculations to make more money? The Minister of Health himself said that the department had a control responsibility. Once these balances have been given with the reasons now given by the Minister of Health, it must be critical that the department has not followed up better at an earlier time, so that we had not had these problems in the middle of an operating term for the hospitals, which must necessarily go beyond the patient treatment because the budgets will then crack and the county councils have to correct their budgets. Can the Minister of Health assure that these problems will not arise for the current year of operation, and then on condition that the Department has to carry out a continuous check on these records, so as to avoid the problem we are now in the middle of?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e647	The system is like this, and I'm afraid the representative of Alvheim is familiar with the fact that a bank account payments are made in the year of operation, and there is a post-clearance settlement within 1 May of the following year, and that is what we are now going through. Clearly, there is room for improvement in ISF policies and practices. After all, it is a system that is not even two years old. I don't want to say that it's critical that only at the time of billing do you discover these major registry changes, because they actually happened to a great extent at the end of the year and the department had no opportunity to discover it earlier. I don't want to accuse anyone of having made mistakes, but when mistakes are discovered, we have to take it up and handle it, with the responsibility we have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e656	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e659	This question goes to the Minister of Health. It is still the case that too many patients wait too long for treatment. And after what we heard in the last round, I'm concerned that we will have a decline in patient treatment in 1999 compared with 1998. I'd like to mention a couple of relationships. It is such that it was granted approx. 300 million. However, as the Labour Party also pointed out, this money was largely spent in 1998. Another aspect that I would also like to point out is the reduction in the rates that are in the state's payment to the county councils for the treatment carried out at the outpatient clinics in the hospitals. This reduces the amount of money spent on county councils, and in my view it must lead to less patient treatment. How does the Minister of Health view these two issues that I have mentioned?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e673	In the additional appropriations proposed by the Government for hospitals, which are now being dealt with in the Grand Duchy in the context of the revised national budget, it is that, due to the increase in activity we saw in 1998, we expect a higher growth in 1999 than we expected when we presented the State budget in the autumn. And it's taken into account in that proposal for an additional 315 million. kr for which proposals have been submitted by the Government. It's a happy development, and I think that's the basis for the increased growth estimate that we've presented. In the case of outpatient clinics, there has also been good and intentional growth, but it was larger in 1998 than the budget for which it was based. The Outpatient Budget is a budget-driven mechanism, a framework-driven mechanism, and that is, when we got the 1998 accounts and saw that there was a greater growth than that envisaged in the 1999 budget, it was part of our budgetary responsibility to ensure that we could implement this mechanism in 1999 within the framework of that budget chapter. It is part of budgetary management, which is that the Storting has actually decided that this is a budgetary system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e680	When the county councils as hospital drivers now receive less money than they had calculated to be able to continue the level, I cannot help but understand that it must be important for patient treatment. So it's also like some groups of patients, for example. with chronic disorders, through the waiting list system gets very far behind in the queue and is treated after too long waiting. I wonder how the Minister of Health assesses the whole – patients who wait and counties who don't manage to maintain their capacity. Does it not mean a reduction in patient treatment in 1999? I do not think I received a satisfactory answer on the basis that I left for my first question either.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e691	In my opinion, it is in a budget that, if the Stortinget agrees with the Government's proposal, it will be more than 300 million. kr greater than that at the time of its adoption last autumn, the basis for an increase in activity. Then the representative Kristoffersen points out that some county councils have actually provided for even greater income than this in their budgets. And it suggests that the activity may not be as big as these county councils had budgeted for, but it's getting bigger than the state budgeted for in 1999, as I can see today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e698	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e703	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Grethe G. Fossum to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Culture on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. Question 3, from the representative Marit Nybakk to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 23, from the representative Olaf Gedrem to the Minister for Transport, has been withdrawn. Question 31, from Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e721	‘Will the Council of State take new initiatives to improve the subtitles and interpretation of TV programmes for the deaf and the hard of hearing in NRK and TV 2?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e726	On several occasions I have answered questions in Stortinget's Question Time about subtitling and interpreting television programmes for deaf and hearing impaired people. The provision of texted programmes was also mentioned in the 1997 Broadcasting and Day Press Storing Communication. I have obtained a statement from Norwegian National Broadcasting about the status of the projects in progress to improve the offer of deaf and hearing impaired people. One project targets deaf people, with digital communication of interpreters. About this, the NRK says: ‘The NRC plans to translate the experience from the interpretative project into permanent operation next year by interpreting up to 3 hours of the broadcasts on the NRK1 working days and publishing the interpretation via digital satellite. This interpreter service will include programmes for children and consignments with current content.’ The second project concerns a system to be able to text directly. The NRK reports that a fully developed prototype is likely to be available next year. Such a prototype may provide a basis for test operation and then normal operation. The NRK is set to deploy the technology as soon as it is fully developed. If this system is not in operation in the next year, I will start a legislative work to ensure deaf and cumbersome hearings of a wider range of texted television programmes in our public broadcasting channels, i.e. NRK and TV 2. However, I believe that the last resort must be the legislative texting of television programmes if the public broadcasters are unable to meet the requirement of a satisfactory offer of texted programmes for deaf and deaf people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e742	I thank you for your answer. The reason why the Minister of Culture has also been asked about this, in previous circumstances, is that there is a certain outrage in Norwegian society to rectify an injustice that has developed for too long. We've been waiting, and it's been expressing good intentions from the two institutions, but unfortunately it hasn't happened enough. It is therefore gratifying to note that the Minister of Culture will now more offensively meet these two institutions, give them another chance to get this in place, and if it does not help, for example, a user of other tools. law or concession to put this in place. This applies to a large group, almost half a million people, and stations should view it as a competitive advantage, so it should be in their interest to develop such an interpretation and subtitles service. In the rest of the world, they have come much further than in Norway with topicality programmes, news and debate programmes that are translated and interpreted directly for this important group. TV 2, which has a strong national obligation alongside the NRK, has positive intentions, and it should be appropriate to include this in the concession terms of this important company, which has a good economy, in order to solve this self-evident task. That's why I want to thank the Minister of Culture for her commitment and hope that it can be closed to get this in place late next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e753	I would like to state that as regards the question of Gedrem, as he has also mentioned earlier, I fully agree with the impatience that has been expressed, and that there is an injustice against hearing-impaired and deaf people by the fact that we have not come to work any longer. So there we are completely in line. I'm going to promise to follow up on the good intentions that I've expressed here again. I would also like to stress that if the public broadcasters do not take this seriously, there is an opportunity to use both the law, as I suggested in my first response, and also the concession terms.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e761	This question, from the representative of Grethe G. Fossum to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Culture on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e764	I will then ask the Minister for Culture, Oil and Children and Family the following questions: ‘In the 1999 budget proposal, the Government states that their objective is that the parental payment in kindergartens should not exceed the price increase. Has this objective been achieved?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e773	On behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, I will give the representative Fossum the following answer: In the Question Time on 24 March this year, the representative Fossum asked almost identical questions about parental payment in kindergarten. In the reply given at the time by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, she explained that she was concerned that the parental payment should be at an acceptable level both in public and private kindergartens. Furthermore, she expressed concern that the increase in parental pay is higher than the increase in the consumer price index during the same period. In the response given in March of this year by the State Council of Reply Haugland, it was also explained that the issue of parental payment will be discussed in the grand report on kindergartens. In this Communication, the Government aims to discuss the different ways of regulating parental pay, in conjunction with other childcare management tools. When the Storting is about to deal with the kindergarten message, we will have a broad discussion on future framework conditions for the kindergarten sector, including a discussion on possible measures to keep the parental payment at an acceptable level. Otherwise, the Government does not have anything new to report on the work in relation to the parental payment at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e782	I'm worried, and I want to share my concern with the Government, which, after all, can do anything about it. I would like the Government to be equally concerned with following the development of kindergarten, and especially the parental payment, as they are in following the cash support. In my opinion, the government has given the voters a guarantee that the parental payment should not exceed the price increase. When that happens, they shift responsibility away. Since the Government does not want to investigate what the parental payment is, Norwegian Teacher Team has done so. They've examined a third of the kindergartens in the country and looked at the parental payment. 10 pst. of these kindergartens, no increase and 90 pst. indicates an increase. 65 pst. Of the 90 say that the parents will have an increase of up to 5 pst, and 29 pst. that they will get an increase of 5-10 pst. Isn't this worrying for the government, and is it waiting for a kindergarten announcement?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e791	Of course, we're concerned about kindergarten development. That is why we have announced that there will be a kindergarten announcement during the autumn. In that message – as I explained in my first answer – the question of the parental payment will also be a central part. Then the representative Fossum refers to numbers from Norwegian Teachers' Team on the development of the parental payment. And that's right, it's also found from a survey by the Statistical Central Bureau that there has been an increase in the nursery rates that are on average higher than the evolution in the consumer price index. Of course, this is something that we want to take with us in the further work. Moreover, it is certain that this is also linked to the development of the local economy. It is clear that when there is no majority in the Grand Duchy to increase the income of the community, there will be a situation where, for example: the parent payment will need to increase more than the consumer price index.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e800	Now I'm not quite sure who's getting the best out of a debate on the local economy, but I hung myself up in that state council saying they were interested in kindergarten development. Then I have to ask, what are you interested in when you don't want to do anything about the parental payment even if you see it rising more than the price index, and you don't want to do anything about the kindergarten queues at all? You look at what's going on, and you wait for a pediatric message that's been notified to us, but it's not coming because the government isn't working with kindergartens. What is the Government concerned about kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e807	I interpret this question as an expression of the impatience of the representative Fossum in receiving the pediatric message from the Government. When we've said that we're going to provide a kindergarten message, the answer to the questions from Fossum is that we're working on it. We're going to provide a kindergarten message. We're concerned about babysitting. We are committed to the parental payment and that parents should have freedom of choice in view of the offers to be made to the children. With regard to the discussion about the local economy and who would get the best out of it, there's probably a discussion that we're going to get in the future in many ways. When I allowed myself to point out that it was not a majority to increase the income of the community, it was related to what happened last autumn, when the government put forward a scheme to increase the income of the community and it became clear that the Workers' Party would not participate in it, but on the contrary, together with the Right and the Advance Party stated that it was not appropriate to increase the level of taxes and charges in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e829	This question has been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e835	I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘In order to dispose of the country’s properties and building stock on Fornebu without triggering the notification requirement of the EFTA Surveillance Authority, an independent tariff should be maintained before the State designates the private partner of the IT and Competence Centre. Has the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade obtained such a rate, or is such a rate in the course of work? If not, what reasons does the Ministry have for postponing this?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e844	Norway is initially obliged to notify in advance – what we call in finer languages notification – all plans for new business support measures to the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA. The Ministry has consistently argued that the valuation of the properties in Fornebu shall be carried out in a professionally qualified manner and that there shall be transparency in the pricing process. It has therefore been suggested that the quality of valuation has been raised beyond any doubt and that it does not in itself warrant notification to ESA. However, I would like to stress that the notification obligation goes beyond the concept of State aid and, in doubt, there is a need for judgement on whether to notify the measure. Tariffs of the property of the State at Fornebu are being prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Administration. A tariff heading has been reduced, which has initially been entrusted with the task of taxing the area to be purchased by the Municipality of Oslo between Koksa and the terminal building. The same tariff heading will then tax the remaining areas owned by the State in Fornebu. A key prerequisite for the cost-cutting process is the existence of an adopted municipal sub-plan 2 for Fornebu, so that the efficiency and purpose of the site are clarified. Bærum Municipal Council shall deal with Municipal Council Plan 2 on 16 June 1999 following a hearing with a deadline of 20 May. In addition, it has not been possible to implement an independent tariff until one knew who were the relevant providers to the area in question in Fornebu – this in the interests of the independence of its members, i.e. that there is no inconsistency of companies with an interest in the area. It was not clear who were the relevant providers before 18 May, and the letter of assignment to the tax collector's members was sent immediately after this date.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e855	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The majority of the population has said that the value of the land and buildings of the country is determined by tariff according to the EEA Regulation. Following the decision of the Grand Duchy on 25 February, it would be possible, as I see it, to order a tariff based on the assumptions contained in the proposal for Municipal Council level 2. Changes that had to be adopted after the examination by the municipality of Bærum of the plan on 16 June would then have to result in adjustments. But I stress: there are adjustments that, as I understand it after talking to EEA lawyers, can be made without notice. As far as the State Council is concerned, the choice of valuers — possibly three independent tax collectors — was likely not to be involved in relation to the providers that had made offers at Fornebu.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e862	Until the last one: until the deadline expired on 18 May, it has at least been unknown to the Government who would be the providers. What we know today is that there is a broad representation from the Norwegian business community that is interested. The main argument that I used in my answer, which is the decisive one, is that before a tariff can be implemented, you have to know the purpose of the regulation. It is quite essential for the value of an area whether it is regulated into a park, road or commercial building on one or more floors, and it must be in place before a tariff can be implemented. As the Government now states, the first part of a tariff, as I explained, could be made by the end of June, based on the fact that Bærum City Council implements its decisions on 16 June, as was said in my reply. The rest could be implemented during the summer — by the end of August — if all is done according to the plans we have now taken.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e869	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It has always been known that it was then Minister of Administration Løwer and the Government that until Bærum City Regulatory Responsibilities. It has gone through the presidency, and it is most likely that it will pass the local council by a clear majority on 16 June, so I would say that it could be possible to adjust this, and have a tariff based on Bærum's assessments of exploiting this area. But I would also like to ask the Council of State whether he has consulted other departments in these assessments, for example. Ministry of Labour and Administration, on the maintenance of tariffs. Doesn't he think it's very important that this tariff work has a lot of momentum, because the result will be independent of the choice of actor?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e878	Let me first stress that it is not the Government or former Minister of Administration Eldbjørg Löwer who has assigned Bærum municipality regulatory authority for this area, but it is actually regulated by law. It is the municipalities that are regulators, and it respects and respects, of course, the Government. Of course, the government and the departments are in full agreement when I explain this way of implementing a tariff, which therefore assumes that we have a well-known regulatory plan. Although it is now known that objections have been raised to the regulatory plan, tariff work could be started on the basis of a decision by the local government in Bærum. Formally, the Ministry of Labour and Administration will be responsible for the implementation of this work. But, of course, the government is behind what the government apparatus does.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e890	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘The EURATOM Directive was adopted by the EU on 16 March 1996 and is to be transposed into national law in all EU countries by May 2000. It draws a limit between low-activity waste and non-active waste. The ‘non-active’ shall be treated as normal waste and thus, in principle, capable of spreading anywhere. So the pre-variant principle is aberrant. What is the Government’s position on this Directive, and what is done to prevent its implementation in Norwegian legislation through the EEA Agreement?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e899	Council Directive 96/29/Euratom, to which the representative of Langeland refers, lays down basic safety standards for the protection of the population and workers from radiation. It requires national authorities to regulate all radioactive irradiation and treatment of radioactive material with a view to minimising radiation doses. The action is assumed to be concentrated in areas of radiant significance. Certain sources of radiation and certain uses are therefore excluded from regulation. Wastes with very low radioactivity levels are classified as so-called non-active, since it is considered not to be a radiological problem. Such waste is therefore exempted from regulation. Nor are most sources of radiation and uses subject to the exemption rules of the Directive regulated by Norwegian legislation. The starting point for this is that a certain amount of radioactivity is always exposed by nature and that products resulting in a small additional exposure can be exempted from regulation. This applies today, among other things. some electrical products. This Directive has been adopted in accordance with the Euratom Treaty, which is not part of the EEA Agreement. It is therefore not appropriate to include the Directive in the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e910	I thank the Council of State for a positive answer. As I interpret it, the Norwegian Government will oppose all attempts from the EU to implement this in the EEA Agreement and actively work for it. There is no doubt that something that the Government has been preoccupied with at least, i.e. leading to the precautionary principle, will be waived if this principle is introduced. But I see that the Norwegian Government will oppose this directive becoming part of Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e917	In this context, we don't actually have to work against it either. It is not relevant to include it in the EEA Agreement, as I said, because it does not form part of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e926	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘The agreement between Norway and Russia provides for free visas between the two countries. Russians can get an emergency visa to Norway on the same day without paying anything. On the other hand, Norwegians travelling to Russia have to pay so-called dispatch fees for visas to Russia, ranging from 50 to 700 kroner, depending on how short the visa is issued in advance. What will the Government do to ensure that Norwegians are not discriminated against against against Russians, in line with the intention of the agreement?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e935	The former agreement between Norway and the Soviet Union on the waiver of the fee for visa issues was continued for a transitional period after the dissolution of the Soviet Union to cover all former Soviet republics. In August 1998, the exemption agreement with these countries, with the exception of Russia, was repealed. However, I am aware that all Norwegian citizens applying for a visa to Russia are charged an administrative fee for the processing of the application. This fee is increasing in relation to the urgency of the individual case. Russia also practises this scheme with other countries, in addition to the usual visa fee. Both previous governments and this government have raised this matter with the Russian authorities on a number of occasions, but without removing the administrative fee. From the Norwegian side, it has been decided not to impose such a fee because we do not want to put obstacles in the way of people to the people's relations between Norway and Russia, not least in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e946	I thank the Council of State for a positive response in the sense that on repeated occasions this has been addressed. But it's also a question of what commitment you put in the follow-up to this. It is a fact that this poses major problems for, among other things, businessmen and others who are dependent on these visas, that there are still changes on the part of Russians in respect of visas. These are also significant amounts, and unnecessary and irritating costs, creating a lot of expenditure and bureaucratic irritation. I would like to ask what you want to do actively, whether you want to consider introducing a fee on the Norwegian side as a means of pressuring the Russians, or what you want to do more specifically.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e953	As I said, this matter has been raised repeatedly with the Russian authorities without having been implemented. We do not consider it appropriate to go to countermeasures in the form of imposing any fees on the Norwegian side. I understand the inconvenience this puts on Norwegian businessmen and others, but we should remember that the economic situation in Russia today is such that the measures that are possible to obtain money for various services are likely to be taken. A Norwegian fee would just prevent what we want from the Norwegian side, namely increased people's contact with people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e958	I have to admit that I think this seems a bit tame. The point is that this is an obvious discrimination against the Nordics, and it should be a central objective for the Norwegian foreign service to take care of Norwegian interests. Here you actually have an agreement that says that it should be non-discrimination. I then have to ask, if you do not consider any kind of reaction in this area, if not the intention of this agreement is then undermined.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e965	This isn't paralysis. This is an active Russian policy where the Government wants to aim for as close and as good a relationship as possible with Russia, and close contact with people with people. We believe that the introduction of a similar visa fee, or administration fee, which is what you have on the Russian side, would be counterproductive, you would put restrictions on the contact we want. I don't want to say that we won't mention this to the Russians at the apartment, but I don't think it's right, after the repeated times we've brought this up, to take this up again as a matter of our own. But in conversations we have, it will not be unnatural for us to explain the inconvenience this brings to Norwegian businessmen and others, without me thinking this is a major problem for the Nordics today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e975	I have a new question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘Northmen travelling on private visits to Russia must be registered in the local police district where they are located. It should be a central objective not to discriminate against Norwegian citizens. What guidelines apply to Russians on tourist visas in Norway and must these be stamped with the local police?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e984	It is true that the North who travel on private visits to Russia must be registered in the police district where they live. However, this is a scheme involving non-residents in general, not just Norwegian citizens. All foreigners coming to Norway on a tourist visa are subject to one’s guidelines. After receiving a visa at a Norwegian foreign station in the country of origin, the foreigner must cross the border to Norway at an approved transit point. Here, Norwegian border police will stamp the date of entry into the passport of the foreigner. Thereafter, the foreigner may stay in Norway for as long as the visa is valid. It is only if a foreigner wishes to extend the visa that it is necessary to contact a local police chamber, which has the authority to extend the validity of the visa to a maximum of three months in total.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e991	In many ways I see this question absolutely in connection with the previous one; I experience this as a situation where the Russians discriminate against the North and where we are confronted with worse arrangements than the Russians do when they come to Norway. This is, of course, a bureaucratic system, in reality a communist life, and it's absolutely no comfort to me that this also applies to citizens from other countries, the system is just as old-fashioned and, in my opinion, is being laid down. My question is then: What has been done by the Norwegian side to create non-discrimination for the Nordics and Russians, i.e. in the sense of removing this scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1000	As far as I am aware, this matter has not previously been raised with the Russian authorities. The reason is probably in the first row that it is not just targeting Norwegian citizens, but against foreigners in general. It is therefore not discrimination against the Nordics, as the representative Danielsen puts it. It is primarily the persons who are accommodated privately, who meet this requirement for registration. If you stay at a hotel, the hotel will usually take care of the registration. It may be that in recent years the increasing contacts between the Nordics and Russians have led many to have had to register themselves at their own presence with local police authorities. It is not considered appropriate to introduce an equivalent regime for non-residents in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1009	As it is now stated that this has not been taken up with the Russians in the past, I hope that you do – show that you are not comfortable with such a system, and that you do not think it is appropriate in today's world. I have to say, again, that I believe there is a somewhat evasive attitude towards Russia. I hope you want to put a little more pressure on Russia to get this relationship right as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1016	As I said in one of my answers to Danielsen's previous question, we in Norway are busy developing the contact network with Russia at all levels, not least as regards people to people. That doesn't mean we're not going to deal with the problems that lie there of an administrative nature. It would also be natural to do that, as I said, on appropriate occasions. At the same time, I think it is important that, in the particular case we are now discussing, we remember that the registration applies to all foreign citizens visiting Russia, not just the North. It would then be more natural and appropriate to consider this perhaps in a framework where other countries also participate, so that many people can be perceived as untimely in the current situation, and we can see that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1024	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘What is the reason why aid organisations have to wait up to 2 years before receiving a response to their applications, and what does the Foreign Minister intend to do in order to receive a faster treatment?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1031	The Ministry of Foreign Affairs receives each year a large number of applications for humanitarian aid in different parts of the world. The number of applications increases from year to year. Only until the end of the year for the former Yugoslavia has the Ministry received 163 applications. I can also tell you that of the 225 million. kr, as the Stortinget granted to the Kosovo crisis on 26 April this year, is 168.2 million. NOK already paid. Each application is carefully assessed, and during the course of the treatment of an application, there is usually a continuous and close contact between the ministry and the applicant, in particular with regard to the major Norwegian voluntary organisations, which are responsible for the main gravity of the applications. Following consultation with the applicant, some applications considered eligible are not immediately rejected, even if budgetary resources are not available. Instead, they are added in case additional funds can be made available at a later stage. The alternative is to reject the application. This is the situation of many applications for which a positive response is requested. The special issue referred to here by the questioner concerns, as far as I understand, support for a mother/child centre in Pristina, Kosovo. The application has been discussed with the applicant in several rounds, but unfortunately it was not possible to prioritise it within the given budgetary framework in 1997 or 1998. As the application concerns actions within Kosovo, it is, of course, not relevant with support in the current situation. The Ministry has an assessment of a proposal from the voluntary organisations on the establishment of a framework grant. In certain circumstances, such a mechanism could be appropriate as a tool and reduce the need to deal with individual applications. This is discussed with the organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1044	My question was not about a specific project, but a trend reported by the large help organisations. The impression of these auxiliary organisations is that project grants for long-term relief work, for example: the establishment of democracy, which is not treated as a priority in the U.D. Many people understand that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a lot to do with the OSCE situation and the situation in the Balkans. However, it is important to think not only about the emergency situation and the means needed there, but also about the building up of democracy. Some applications have been waiting for two years without having been in contact with the applicant, the application has only been there. And this applies, among other things. democratic instruments for former Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1051	If that's a trend, then I'm very sorry, because my impression is that we have a good dialogue with the Norwegian voluntary organizations, not least the five big ones. And in the meetings I've had, they've been pretty much happy with us. We have been concerned that we should deal with applications relatively quickly. My information – but I will look into this when I get back to the department – is that only this one application for a mother/child centre has been in place for two years, and that there has been contact with the applicant in this context. If the information I have received is not correct, I'm sorry, but of course I should look at it. I think there is an understanding among the organisations that not all applications can be met immediately because there is a need to go into them more closely. However, it is clear that the organisations are entitled to receive feedback on how the application is being submitted, and we will ensure that it is done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1056	I thank the Council of State for the answer and for the willingness to look at this issue. I think it's important to interact with the organizations and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I stand here with a letter from Norsk Folkehelp, sent after a meeting that was held in the department between the Secretary-General and the Secretary-General. They point out that for Bosnia, for example, There are five unanswered projects from 1998 for the Yugoslav Republic is the oldest application from 23 May 1997 and many are unanswered. The same applies to Albania. I think the department would be better off with the big volunteer organizations if someone took this seriously. Then my question becomes again, which I have not yet received an answer to: What will the Council of State do to ensure that this is effective and that you receive feedback on whether you are getting money or not – or whether the application has to wait?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1065	In terms of efficiency, we will continue the work we are already doing in paying out money and processing the applications as quickly as possible. With regard to the practice that has obviously been established by talking on the phone and not writing, I will today, as a follow-up to this question-time question, inform my employees that it is to be written here, and not spoken on the phone. I'm pretty sure in most cases these applications have been discussed, but it's clear that you can perceive differences when you don't put them on paper. And I would like to take the initiative to ensure that all applications are always answered in writing, so that the organisations know where the application is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1075	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘What was defined as a ‘surgery humanitarian bombing operation’ has become quite different. Civilians are killed in hospitals, in tractor columns, in refugee camps, in housing houses, in embassies, in news editorials, in buses and trains. Those who direct this international law-enforcement NATO action now need to change strategy. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that the time has come to try a time-limited stoppage, and in what way, if any, can this bombing operation, with tragic results, continue to be defended?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1084	NATO wants not just a break in the bombing campaign, but a full stop in the air raids. However, it is up to President Milosevic to make assumptions for this by meeting the demands of the international community. The aim is not only to stop the abuse and displacement of the population in Kosovo but also to ensure that refugees can safely return to their homes. This will only be possible if President Milosevic agrees to withdraw his military forces from Kosovo and consent to an international military presence in the province. A unilateral time-limited bomb stop from NATO in today's situation is, in my opinion, a bad approach. It will only provide President Milosevic with a breathing room that he, based on past experience, will exploit for further assault on the civilian population. Much indicates that the humanitarian situation in Kosovo is much worse than most have imagined. UN Vice-Secretary-General Sergio de Mello has just visited Kosovo, and his preliminary feedback is shocking: burned villages, hundreds of thousands internally displaced and thousands of missing men whose fate is unknown. The Kosovo Albanians clearly state that it is the Milosevic regime's attack and not NATO's bombing of their refugees. Without signs of compliance from the Milosevic side, a bomb stop would be a betrayal of those who are displaced, and the values and principles that we all believe in. Bombing itself doesn't solve any problems. It must be an element of an overall peace settlement. Lasting peace in Yugoslavia must be based on a unified solution within the UN Security Council, based on the principles of the G8 Declaration, to which all Western countries and Russia have joined. It is very regrettable that NATO's air operations also affect civilians. The mistakes of the last few weeks that have hit innocent people are deeply tragic. We have taken up the error bombing in the Council of NATO from the Norwegian side. There is full agreement in the alliance that the greatest care must be exercised in the selection of targets in order to avoid multiple civil damage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1099	I thank you for your answer. I could imagine a completely different answer, of course, because what the Foreign Minister says is that things should continue as before. So let me start with a specific question about today's news. NATO's bombs are probably going to engage on the news medium in Yugoslavia, probably to prevent news from happenings other than those they control themselves. Does the Council of State think it's okay for one to do such a thing? Question no. 2: The goal of the action was noble enough, but is one today closer to the goal, or is one much further from the goal than one was when this started? Has not the situation worsened for all parties? And isn't it true that NATO can also take initiatives here, and not just wait for a Milosevic to break in 14 days, but now after 60 days, it's as safe as before?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1108	Now I have a problem, because there were so many questions, and I have so little time, so it is possible that the representative Langeland and I have to continue in the restaurant afterwards. NATO is taking the initiative. NATO, the Western world and the outside world do nothing but take the initiative: here you talk, here you travel to Belgrade, here you try to find opportunities. Here you have G8 meetings, EU meetings, OSCE meetings, UN meetings – we take initiatives all the time, but we meet a wall. The representative of Langeland says that the situation has been exacerbated for all parties. Some people may have thought so during World War II, but from the Norwegian side we were concerned that they were engaged in a liberation fight for Norway. The Kosovo Albanians support NATO's strategy. The Kosovo Albanians say that it is right that we commit ourselves. I could have liked to ask a counter-question: how would the representative of Langeland defend himself against the Kosovar Albanians if you stopped the bombing today and said, "Now you're going to feel so good, because now we can't do this, to look at these ruined buildings, anymore?"
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1117	I'd like to take, and actually, if I can get it, a conversation with the foreign minister at the restaurant afterwards, just to explain to him in detail how crazy this action is, and how crazy it is that he keeps going. I accept that with thanks, yes for all of it, so we'll wait for it. Then I will also answer the question that the Foreign Minister asked me. But I had a question that at least there was no answer. That's the question from today's news -- just to be very up-to-date -- where NATO once again bombed the news editorial to secure, probably, that one should not get news from both parties. What did the Foreign Minister think about that? Is it like defending – based on the objective of this action? So I would also like to ask, if there is time to answer – if not, we will take it afterwards: What does the Foreign Minister believe this will mean for the future role of the United Nations?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1126	As far as the role of the United Nations is concerned, we are very concerned about the role of the United Nations from the Norwegian side and in most of the countries with which I am familiar. And in the present arrangement, when we are going to implement a peace agreement, it is clear that the UN should have an overall role in the reconstruction process. So the UN is clearly inside. As for the question of the bombing of this television station, I'm probably in doubt if that's right, if I'm going to be honest, and we've addressed this question in NATO before. At the same time, it is completely wrong when the representative Langeland says that you are afraid of news from both sides. The problem has been that the Serbian population has received no news other than that which is Milosevic" propaganda. It's not very strange that you also realize that it's important to stop the propaganda device that President Milosevic has. Once again, I must say that it is less serious to bomb houses and buildings than to expel people, rape women and children and kill men, as we know Milosevic has done in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1135	The President asks the Minister for Foreign Affairs to wait with his further discussions with Langeland until Question 10 is answered.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1141	I have the following questions for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘Norwegian seafarers may be sentenced to death in the future if they are taken for oil spills in the Persian Gulf. The United Arab Emirates assesses the imposition of the death penalty for this purpose. Norwegian ships have 750 calls to the country every year. In addition, at least an equal number of ships pass through the national waters. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Norwegian authorities exert pressure on the authorities of the country not to introduce such a change?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1150	It has emerged in press releases that there is a new law on pollution at sea in the United Arab Emirates. Furthermore, it has been claimed that it would allow the death penalty for deliberate environmental pollution emissions from ships. As soon as we were made aware of this, our embassy in Abu Dhabi contacted the authorities of the Emirates. They informed that the new environmental legislation under preparation does not include access to the death penalty for marine oil pollution. On the other hand, the proposal provides for the possibility of imposing a death penalty for serious radioactive contamination. The clear rule under international law is that only fines can be used for pollution at sea. This in itself suggests that the death penalty for such conditions in Norwegian terms will not be an acceptable response form. From the Norwegian side, we are committed to strengthening international law. In view of this, our significant shipping interests and not least our principle view of the death penalty, we will follow this matter closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1159	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Shipowners’ organisations feared such a proposal, which subsequently turns out to contain certain shades. One would fear the woes of Norwegian seafarers and well if such a law were passed. It would be a very unfair punishment that would actually make it risky to carry ships in this area. Understandably, these misinformation has caused concerns in Norwegian shipping companies and among Norwegian seafarers travelling in the area. As you know, the Emirates do not have an open system as we do in Norway, and so you do not know how the justice system works. And the concerns about what might happen in the future if the death penalty is imposed are justified. International responses have been made to the new proposal, which is clearly based on misunderstandings. And how the Norwegian authorities react to these reactions from international environments is uncertain in view of what the Council of State has already experienced.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1170	I am not sure if I understood the last comment of the representative, Mr Stang, that Norwegian reactions were uncertain. What we have done is, as I said – just to repeat it – that we addressed this matter immediately, as we became familiar with it. We have been assured that this is not a reaction form for oil spills, but for radioactive contamination. But it is still unacceptable both under international conventions and international law. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea has not acceded to the Emirates, but we believe, however, that there is an international customary law here that limits this. In addition to that, as I know Norway has a clear principle view of the death penalty, so that, as I said in my first answer, we will follow this matter carefully and, of course, re-examine this question, because it is unacceptable to imagine that there should be a death penalty for some kind of pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1179	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The intention I was after has been met. However, I would say that the Norwegian Maritime Administration states that they strongly doubt whether any Norwegian seafarers will take the chance of carrying ships in these waters if the death penalty for pollution is imposed at all. It is also important to stress that each country is, of course, sovereign to introduce its own laws, but it cannot live with such laws itself if they are to be introduced. This would mean that the country would completely isolate itself from an international trade relationship if that were the case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1188	Then the Foreign Minister can continue his talks with Mr. Langeland at the restaurant!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1196	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture: «The Council Decision of 19 March 1999 on the restriction of the universal service of Tine to private dairies runs counter to the Storting's intention to have a level playing field at the processing stage in the milk sector. Private dairies that will expand their activities or new dairies will face strong restrictions of competition. Will the Council of State take an initiative to change the composition of the Council of Commerce for the benefit of consumers?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1205	The composition and appointment of the Economic and Social Council has been dealt with several times by the Storting and, at the latest, by the Storing Decision of 16 January 1992. It was then decided that eight of the 15 members of the Council of Turnover Management should be appointed after suspension by the professional and economic organisations of agriculture, while the management board should be held by a State-elected person. With effect from 10 July 1936, the Act on the placing on the market authorises producers to levy the sale of certain agricultural products and the over-production levy on milk in order to finance measures to promote their placing on the market. The Management Board is appointed by the Ministry and has as its task the collection and management of turnover taxes. In this system, agriculture has financial responsibility for overproduction, and their economic organisations have an obligation to comply with the law on turnover and the price provisions of the Agreement on Agriculture. Since the substantial cost of the activities of the Council of Turnover has been financed by a reduction in producer prices and it is the economic organisations of agriculture which have an obligation to implement it has been seen as natural that agriculture also has a majority in the Council of Turnover. In order to ensure that this majority is not used in such a way that the social interests are harmed, the Ministry appoints a supervisory committee to control the activities of the Council of Turnover. In particular, I would like to point out that, in new instructions for the Supervisory Committee of 14 January 1999, the Ministry has raised a specific point that the sample should give priority to issues of competition neutrality. Furthermore, the Ministry may, if contrary to the law or to the applicable agricultural agreement, reverse decisions taken by the Board of Commerce. The King of State Council may also reverse decisions of the Council of Turnover if it is manifestly contrary to social interests. The case referred to by the representative Hedstrøm has been briefed by the department in St. pp. No 75 for 1998-99. The case has been filed, and the department assumes that the case follows a normal procedure. I would like to add that the composition of the Management Board should be regularly assessed in the light of the situation in question. But on the basis of what I have now explained, I believe that the interests of society, and therefore also the interests of consumers, are safeguarded by the system we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1222	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I registered that he did not want to take any initiative to change the composition of the Sales Council. And then it might be time for the Storting to take an initiative. It's been a long time since 1992. And the practical situation in the light of the decision taken is that the agricultural organisations are on both sides of the table and have a crucial role to play in agricultural policy in certain areas. Now the Stortinge new market organisation for milk was discussed, and it was emphasised by Stortinge that competition was to be created in the processing based on open, comparable and equal conditions. Does the Council of State consider that this decision in the Council of Commerce is compatible with the wishes of the Stortingen for a level playing field? Otherwise, it is serious if the Board of Commerce is able to take a decision on a large-scale basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1233	I consider it appropriate to stress that the Council of State is, of course, dealing with this in the light of the previous decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 1992. And I would like to stress that the funds managed by the Turnover Council are funds that the industry itself contributes to regulating turnover, and therefore it also has responsibility for the overproduction that a person receives on individual products at certain times. In the case of the decision of the Management Board, it is the subject of a complaint and examination, and it will in turn be sent to the Ministry. And the Council of State finds it wrong to comment on the treatment before the matter is settled in the department. Otherwise, as far as competition is concerned, I would like to point out that, in new instructions to the January Committee of Supervisors this year, the Ministry has raised a specific point that the sample should give priority to issues of competition neutrality. So the Council of State will point out that this has been initiated by the Department.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1242	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. He has now stressed in several stages that it is agriculture through the means of marketing that finance this, as well as a mitigating circumstance. But what really happens is that some of these goods are put into the regulatory warehouse, so that you don't get too much agricultural products into the market, which can help push prices down. Only the interests of agriculture and not the interests of consumers are safeguarded. That's what's my main point. We know that we are at the top of the world when it comes to food prices already, so why not deal with this better and give consumers an opportunity to tell them about this? Does not the Council of State suspect that producer organisations sit on both sides of the table in a majority situation, when it proves to affect prices of Norwegian agricultural products?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1249	Finally, I just want to make it clear that the organisations have a supply responsibility and will ensure that the products are at all times available at different locations in the country. And the fact that in some periods there will be overproduction, if you're going to follow that responsibility, we probably have to live with it. I therefore do not think this is an unnatural organisation, as the responsibility is imposed. In other countries, it is the State that is responsible for overproduction, so it is the producer that is responsible. In relation to the role of the Board of Commerce and, where appropriate, the abuse of its power, control bodies have been established to intervene or there is an opportunity to appeal against the decisions of the Board of Commerce, in order to enable all parties to have their case tried in relation to the other interests of society. And, of course, it will be followed up by the department in relation to specific matters that might be raised.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1259	I will ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: «Many soldiers experience the loud reading of the penalty in the form of an additional penalty and in violation of the Defence's own value base. The Disciplinary Regulation states that the announcement of the penalty itself is not part of the reaction. The Ministry of Defence's ongoing work on the Disciplinary Regulations will be completed during the year. What can the Council of State do to improve these conditions?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1268	The issue that is being raised has also been addressed by the National Committee of Trustees in Defence. The issue will be considered in the context of the revision of the Disciplinary Regulation. This work is – as the representative Holstad points out – in progress, but I have not yet assessed the question of the reading of penalties during the presentation. Before deciding on the question, I find it appropriate to send the matter to the interested parties at the hearing. And I'm aiming that this will happen shortly after the summer vacation. I would like to make it clear that it follows from the second paragraph of Section 20 of the Disciplinary Act that penalties are normally to be notified in the presence of several officers or private persons. If I come to the conclusion that it would be right to accept a change in the read-out procedures for penalties, it will also have to be assessed whether there is a need to propose amendments to the Disciplinary Act.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1277	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Infringement of the rules shall be punished, but the form is well on the way to a life from another time. In the defence's value base, we read the following about basic values: «Human standards, attitudes and characteristics which are positive and upbuilding for the individual and the environment.» The defence's views on individuals shall reflect the society it is intended to defend. Respect for the individual does not disappear if it is in uniform. In an address to the Ministry, the Equality Ombudsman has called for a review of legislation and mechanisms to identify obstacles to a higher proportion of women in the Defence. Does the Council of State feel that the reading of the refs on the stand can be such an obstacle to increased female participation in Defence?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1291	I have read the defence's value base, and I fully support the attitudes and formulations expressed there. They're from 1998. But it's clear that in the Defense there can be lives from past times both in terms of attitudes to individuals and to management, which there is a need to look at with our eyes. When it comes to punishment in particular, I have said that it wants me to come back to, but I also want to say, as a general statement, that I believe that the implementation of these attitudes in the value of defence will contribute to anchoring defence in several environments in Norway, as well as in women's areas to get more women to participate. I am very concerned to see if we can implement this value base even by clearing away old measures and schemes that do not fit into today's attitudes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1301	I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Justice: ‘I refer to paragraph 2b of the Regulations to new weapons law which is now being consulted, where a limit of four weapons of the type rifles and/or hails for mandatory storage in a FG approved safety cabinet has been set in respect of locking. The Council of State considers that this limit on the number of weapons is in line with that of the Justice Committee. O. No 39 and the Arms Act on the Control of the Storage of Weapons?’» [[1997-98]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1310	The Ministry of Justice has in its proposal for a law amending the Arms Act of Ot.prp. No 19 for 1997-98, cf. Ot. pp. No 74 for 1996-97, inter alia delivered the following opinion on the storage of firearms: ‘However, the detailed storage requirements, including lock system requirements, may differ according to the type of weapon and/or the number of weapons, must be laid down in regulations’. The Justice Committee delivered its opinion in Innst. O. No 39 for 1997-98, inter alia the following concerning the storage of weapons: ‘The Committee has noted with satisfaction that the proposition is not in favour of the closure of the main part, vital part and ammunition separately and also agrees that these provisions are included in the arms law itself. The Committee therefore advocates that the weapon or one vital part, as well as ammunition, be locked down and that approved weapons and so on. is considered as a secure and lawful storage.» The Ministry has argued in the draft regulations that provisions are made on differentiated requirements for the storage of firearms, depending on the type of weapons and the number of weapons. However, for all weapons there is a requirement that the weapon or a vital part of it be ‘seriously locked down’, cf. Article 27(a) of the Arms Act It is proposed in the draft regulation that only revolvers and pistols and automatic firearms should be required with FG-approved weapons from the first weapon. For rifles or hails, approved weapons are required when more than four weapons are stored. The proposal for a regulation is now pending consultation and the Ministry will lay down the final requirements for the storage of firearms once the hearing bodies have delivered their opinions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1325	I thank you for your answer. I asked so early in this process just to give the Minister of Justice the opportunity to adjust this, so we won't come up with any criticisms later. In this matter, the government parties and the Workers' Party have joined forces to ensure a better storage of weapons. When reference is made to the ‘serious lockdown’, as stated in the Arms Act, it is not enough in relation to what the Justice Committee said in its position on lockdown, because, as the Council of State said, the Judicial Committee said it should be ‘approved weapons and so on’ for all types of weapons. So it's clear that here you have to clarify more in the regulations than just pointing to a proper lockdown. In addition, I hope that the Council of State can give an assessment of whether it is appropriate to limit the number of weapons. We all know that one hail if it gets into the wrong hands, does as much damage as three. We also know that a limit of four hails can turn out unlucky, for example. on farms, where there may be several registered weapons on different household members.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1334	I understand, of course, that regulations will be affected by asking questions, and then the main answer is that the proposal has been sent to the hearing to get our views. I would like to refer to what the representative Bjørnstad said in the debate on this matter: ‘In the light of questions, I would also like to make it clear that there is no requirement for anyone who owns a weapon to go to the purchase of a weapon. More detailed rules will be developed to address other locking options’. And then in his statement: ‘I expect the Ministry of Justice to have contact with the user organisations in the preparation of legislation.’ I see the committee setting as ready. You want more control of weapons, you want a register, you want the opportunity to visit private homes, and you want to have the opportunity to withdraw a permit. These are the main points, as I see it, and of course I want to follow them up. I would also like to follow up on the fact that we have a dialogue through a consultation process. Of course, I have noticed the representative's question and will take it further into my work on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1348	It's good to hear that you notice my views and will take them with you. But I also assume, of course, that you notice what the committee said in the setting of the law on changes to the arms law and take it with you. In the case of locking, we not only indicated a proper locking, but said that it should be «approved weapons and so on». Of course, that doesn't necessarily mean a weapon, but it has to be clarified in the regulations what a lockdown is. If it's up to each weapon owner to define what you think is a proper lockdown, I think we'll easily get back to today's state with a bad padlock on some loft booth, etc. In addition, I would again like to ask the Council of State to consider whether it is really appropriate to have a limit on the number of weapons. Isn't one hail in wrong hands as dangerous as three or four?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1355	The President has no objection to involvement, but will nevertheless point to the fact that all speeches are to be made via the President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1358	I have never been in a situation in Stortinget where a representative in a committee interprets what a committee means. Of course, I have both taken the position of the Committee and the debate on this matter. I've actually prepared to do this in a proper way. Of course, I want to base it on that. It is then very clear that the main purpose of the legislation is to provide for prudential control, but, as has been shown by a number of speakers, even from the majority to which the representative refers, a majority with a long tradition of acting properly will not be suspected. So it turns out that it doesn't always have to be a locker, and we'll listen to the organizations at the hearing. We're in that process now. Of course, that's how we have to work. I have noticed all the aspects of the setting. I'd like to quote from this one: ‘The Committee therefore agrees that the weapon or one vital part, as well as ammunition, shall be locked down’ – and then the words ‘and that approved weapons and so on. is considered as a secure and lawful storage.» It is a parallel arrangement, so that there is no reference to one alternative but to several alternatives and that they can be differentiated when the practical solutions are found.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1373	I would like to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘In addition to driving licences, in order for professional drivers under the age of 21 to be able to drive vehicles above 7500 kg, they must have their own diplomas. It is now more than two years since this scheme should have been implemented. The absence of a diploma makes it impossible to complete the training. Will the Council of State clean up so that recognised diplomas can be put in place as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1382	I am sorry that this matter has not been resolved before. I can inform the representative of Rikvam that the matter has finally been resolved. Letters have already been sent to the county councils with copies to the parties of the practical arrangements for issuing certificates of competence. The Central Register of Professional Certificates at Braskereidfoss shall maintain the practical arrangements for the certificates of competence. The requirement to obtain a certificate of competence is that the apprentice has passed a further course in the transport sector and completed Module 1 Traffic safety in the curriculum for training in the enterprise, the professional trainer. Prove debts until the apprentice reaches the age of 21. Under the Running and Rest Regulation, apprentices under the age of 21 without a certificate of competence can run heavy running speeds above 7500 kg within a radius of 50 km from home to running time. If the apprentice is to run a heavy exercise outside this radius, they must have a certificate of competence. As I said, Saka is solved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1391	I thank you for your answer. I am also pleased that the matter has now clearly been resolved. The situation has been quite difficult in the two years this has been going on. The training has gone out. And if you have chosen to let the apprentice run, despite the lack of proof of competence, this could have resulted in a fine for the person responsible for the training. It's been a very unfortunate situation, and although I can't prove it right now, I'm quite convinced that the lack of evidence has gone beyond training. But that's now history. I'm glad that's history, and I'm pleased that there's been a letter about this, and that the formal things about the evidence – that's a part of it – come into place quite quickly, so that the students who have VK I can get the evidence and thus legally drive according to the regulations that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1398	I'm not going to draw this question, but just say the following in addition to the representative Rikvam said: It's taken too long. The case can be explained clearly, but not defended. Therefore, the matter has been resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1403	And then you're all naked!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1410	‘For examination presented in School Focus No. 4 1999 shows that the numbers of newcomers between students are related to the quality of the training. Every country from several points of the country has demanded that Norwegian training be provided without any results being obtained. It is also pointed out that research efforts in this field are very low. Is the Council of State planning to do anything to strengthen the neo-surgery in the school?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1417	The article in the School Focus to which the representative Tveiten refers is based on extensive research work in connection with the experimental system of common language textbooks in social education. Research has a social and linguistic approach. That the research effort in this field is low, I am therefore not listed. The conclusions of the reports show, among other things. that book measurement habits do not have sufficient knowledge of the Norwegian language situation and the relationship between the two font languages. It is also evident that teachers with a positive attitude to the system of common language textbooks have more students who are positive to new Norwegian. We're facing a problem here with a lot of sides. I am busy that the training in the school – both the elementary school and the secondary school – needs to be arranged so that students can learn about the particular Norwegian language situation and develop language tolerance at the same time. Teachers’ attitudes and choices of working methods are important to stimulate students to use new Norwegian, both written and oral. I want to inform teachers’ educational institutions about the research work and the conclusions of the reports and ask them to follow this up in their teacher’s training.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1428	The fact that the Council of State has not agreed that the research effort in this field is low surprises me. That he doesn't want to be completely in it, may be so, but that he's not in it at all, I think he's forced to take it again. Because there's a reason to be turbulent when more than 30 pst. by students who have a newfound goal in the primary school and youth school, select book goals as their main goal when they take up in the secondary school. So they're picking up their own goal, and it was going to make the bells ring to the council. What is the reason for this development? Even though Nynorsk has our jamsets with bookkeeping for over 100 years, we still experience every fall that elephants who are well-nosed do not get their books in new Norse at the same time as they get their bookkeeping habits. It is quite clear that the teachers' way of communicating language skills is important. When it comes to French and English, they have to master it both orally and in writing. That's not the case when it's neonormous. What does the Council of State really want to do to correct this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1437	What the representative Tveiten sketches as a problem is the Council of State completely agreed on, but not that we do not know more about it in time. What I documented here was that we've seen research going on, among other things. the one presented in the report to which it itself appeared. But it must be passed on in the practical everyday life. Here's a big holding job to do. Teachers are the starting point. Thus, in the context of research reports, we are now trying to get teachers’ training institutions to follow up. In addition, I can mention to the representative Tveiten that we have just had a meeting with the Norwegian Association of Educational Sciences. We've got an intensification in relation to publishers, and we're going to follow even more closely that they're going to have to lie down in time, and we're going to be working on a new, electronic learning device.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1444	I am particularly pleased with the last Council of State, that when it comes to electronic learning, this will be followed up. It is a paradox that when Norwegian companies develop language programs that can be translated into any language, they cannot help but understand that new Norwegian can also be translated. In Finland, it is all right – they say that they can be included in their programme package. But here in Norway, it's a problem. It shows how serious this is. What really bothers me is a look-up in winter that was in today's business, I think it was, at least it was an Oslo newspaper, that financial people wouldn't use neural because they were afraid that they would listen ‘bondish’ out. I'm not going to comment on it any closer, but I think it says something about what young people, who are affected by the degrees of what the media writes, are facing. So it's not good enough to talk and write new Norwegian. I want to know a little bit more about exactly what the government will do. How are we going to deal with this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1455	I have to say that I need more than one minute to do that. It may be that the representative Tveiten and I agree that being called ‘bond’ because we use a popular language is something we can live with. But I see that maybe it's not that easy for teenagers to get the same idea. We have set up a working group between the Department, the Association and the Association of Publishers to correct the things that the representative Tveiten mentions. I also want to mention a happy thing that's happening right now. It is that in Rita Tveiden's home country, Hordaland, at Voss, Nordic Language Technology is being opened, a large, commercial company that will obviously make these questions much easier. I'm reasonably optimistic. I want to admit that we don't have our good enough, but we're getting even better.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1466	And good it is!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1472	I would like to ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘In connection with the hall of Jostedal, the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research will not sell the garden under one, but bit by bit. At NRK Sogn and Fjordane, an official in the department stated that this was a priority for the economy and not for district policy. At the hall of a family, a secure full operation of the garden and a new family to the village. Is this in line with the political objective of the Government to live the districts?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1481	The Prestegardes are owned by the Information Service's fund, an independent legal entity, and the administration is to be run in the most commercial manner possible. The Prestebustad in Jostedal has been empty for several years without interest in rent, and it has not bid the priest in the dwelling since 1974. When, after the 1997 inspection, the department took a decision about the hall, it was a wish that interested people could put the house in order and take a shower there. The earth on the garden has been rented out as additional land for neighboring properties since the 1950s. The farm is standing on an earth a bit away from the priesthood, and has not been in use since it was built in 1949. It is in poor condition and does not meet the requirements of today's operational buildings. Prestebustad and operating building do not have common tuna. In context, we believed that the lack of maintenance on the buildings and the poor operation equipment did not make it reasonable to sell the garden as an operating unit. In addition, a pool of halls would require the allocation of common grounds, which would in that case remove the hall in time. For the sake of the state of the buildings, we did not see it advisable. In the sale of a tenant's car park, the package has the right to purchase, and in these cases, the garages are sold as a unit. In the case of Jostedalen Prestigegard, there are no pacts. A shared hall will be able to strengthen existing use with additional soils at the same time. I have recently become aware that after a share request was sent to the municipality, a seeker has signed up for the entire ownership. The Ministry will review this application against the other concerns I have done well for. I would also like to await the municipality's handling of the matter. But I think the shared hall solution can help secure the settlement in the village by providing a family with housing, as well as a safe living quarters for existing use.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1492	When it comes to the Information Society's fund, I assume that it's the Council of State that can intervene in any room here and do it so that one can meet the requirements that we might have seen on district policy in such contexts. But the end of the answer I felt I gave an opening so that a young family who wants to buy a garden and settle in a town that has a drifting trend will be positively received in the department, with the recommendation the municipality might have to give. I'm aware that the municipality of Luster is actually busy selling whole estates to families who want to settle in the village, so I actually believe that I can say here from this pulpit that the municipality's nominee will be positive. With that in mind, I will be confirmed that if a positive result comes from the municipality when it applies to the hall to this young family, the ministry will reverse its decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1497	Of course, the Council of State is responsible for the management of the Information Society Fund, and that responsibility is twofold. One shall take care of the Fund and its management in accordance with the decisions taken by the Storting as the main guideline, but one shall also, of course, pursue the mandate to meet the objectives of the representative Nistad. What has clearly been a new moment for the state council in the matter is a wish from a buyer. I think that it's very safe that the municipality's agricultural authorities are going to deal with what it is that makes the settlement the best, either a division and extra land for someone, or one use. We will then get an answer to that, and that answer will be very decisive for my final assessment of the cases.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1509	I would like to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research the following questions: «Akershus County Council now completes «Project subcompetence», a three-year national development work in cooperation with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. Nord-Trøndelag County has had a similar national project. Both municipalities have developed new projects based on the findings. These are projects falling within the framework of the development of systems for the assessment of real competence. Will the Council of State, through State resources, ensure that these important projects are launched?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1518	The «Participation» and «User-adapted training for adults» projects have been three-year development work in five counties initiated by the Ministry. The project will now be completed and the evaluation will be carried out in June 1999. Documentation and valuation of adults' real skills have been a central element in both of these projects. Work has gained valuable experience in assessing how county authorities can assess real skills in recording, phase-in and organisation of training. The project experience during the project period was made known through conferences and evaluation reports. Collecting experiences from projects will spread to county municipalities at the end of the project. The Ministry is now following up the Stortinget’s decision to document real competences through a three-year project. The project aims to help all municipalities in their efforts to further develop the value of real skills and to achieve the most comparable practice nationally, and the county has been invited to a start-up conference in September. A system of documentation and valuation of real skills must be of great value both in the workplace and in the education system. The plans for this project are therefore developed in close cooperation with the social partners, the education system and others who provide training, and they are part of a central project group for further work. The aim of the work is a national system that gives grown people the right to demonstrate their real competence without having to walk the road to traditional testing schemes. The project plans include: based on the knowledge and experience acquired through the two projects, ‘User-adapted adult training’ and ‘Participation’. But I also know that several county councils have acquired competence through their own projects, and that others are in the starting pit with project plans. The Ministry has requested information about relevant projects and experiences in letters of information to the county councils so that they can be included in a collection of experience material. The time limit for transmission shall be 10 June 1999. The Ministry has already accepted several individual requests for support for projects relating to documentation and the valuation of real competences, including: from six counties. Between these are Akershus, Nord-Trøndelag and Oppland, who have worked on the named projects ‘Participation’ and ‘User-adapted training for adults’. I understand the representative of Rikvam so that he is busy that these states can follow up their work as quickly as they can, through the new projects. I understand that, and the department will make the necessary assessments to find out if they can be passed on quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1531	I thank you for your answer. I might have hoped that there would have been something more positive about the work that has been done, and the findings that have been made. In the light of this, a proposal for new projects has been drawn up that goes straight into what we are talking about, namely the three-year project, with a view to creating systems for assessing real competences. I think it's important that we take care of what's developed, and the findings we have, and that based on this, we develop new projects and move on the way we've started. In this case, there are two county municipalities that have started on a particular road. They have very specific proposals for follow-up, and then it is important that there are signs from the department that they are prepared to follow this up and to help finance the new projects set up here. It's an important signal to get. I choose to interpret the state council so that he will meet with the county councils and go through these projects with a view to finding a practical arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1542	I understand that the representative Rikvam wants me to be something more concrete. I am always somewhat reluctant to deal with the matter from Stortinget's speaking room, but after the representative Reikvam brought this up, I have taken a special look at this matter. Since we're going to have a starting conference in September, where one is going to lay the overall foundation, there's a good intention to deal with the matter so that it's ready by then. But since there's someone here who's been working on projects and who already has plans to keep going, and who can then gain time for us, I'm willing to invite these county councils around and try to find a solution before the summer break, so they can get a clear signal to move on. I still hope the representative Rikvam understands that I cannot give any number, etc. before we've been through a treatment with the county councils.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1549	After what was said, I am happy. I understand that we are not going to conduct proceedings from Stortinget's pulpit. That was not my starting point either. I submitted the question several days ago, and these are assessments that the department is carrying out over a long time. But on the basis of what the Council of State said now, I am well pleased. I perceive it as contacting the county councils and going through this, and see if the projects fit into the overall picture we are now seeing for ourselves. I hope that these projects and the work that you are doing in the start-up pit can get started, so that it becomes a continuous process in relation to what they have been doing so far. So on this basis, that the Council of State will take these initiatives in relation to the two counties, I am pleased with what he has said and what has now come to light.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1559	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘Do the Council of State wish to improve the situation of the school leisure scheme before the next school year?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1566	It is still a goal that the children who need it should have space in the school leisure system. The new §42d of the Landeskulelova, which entered into force in the New Year, gives municipalities the obligation to have a school leisure offer. The rule of law limits the extent to which the total cost of parental payment can be covered by the principle of self-sufficiency. In the spring of 1999, 109 000 children have had their place in the school leisure system. This is a 6.1 pst decrease. since the start of the school, but there are still more children in the school leave now than at the corresponding time last year. The corresponding fall-to-spring reduction was 4.5 pst. The ministry does not have any information to suggest that the situation of the school leisure arrangements has changed significantly. However, I will follow developments in the supply carefully in time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1580	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the School Leisure Schemes Act, Stortinget agreed that there should be a third of the operating costs between the State, municipalities and parents. And the first big number does after the law is passed, is to reduce the state's grant by about 30 pst. Many municipalities have seen the need to increase the parental payment. The timing of the price increases varies from municipality to municipality, and many wait for the price increase to fall because they follow the school year. Several municipalities now report that there were unusually many sites being cancelled in our time. A parental payment of between 1500 and 2000 kroner per person. month, which is not unusual, becomes too expensive for many parents. Is the Council of State concerned about this development?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1589	On the initiative of the Stortinget, on a question, the department obtains information from the education directors at a time earlier than the usual feedback procedure. That's the numbers I gave, and they don't show any significant change. So there's more in the system this year than last year, but there's a slightly larger decline from fall to fall. Newspaper lookups have indicated that there has been a separate, worse situation, which the documentation so far does not show. But on the same initiative from the Storting and according to the Government's interests to follow it up, we have asked the education agencies to keep systematically reporting on developments, and that's what was in my answer, that I will follow this matter carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1596	The Labour Party is concerned about the development. We have been in contact with many municipalities, and it turns out that in the spring there are an unusual number of places. There are also big differences in the parental payment. In some places, differences may vary by approx. NOK 17 000 per year. years. The working party has agreed to put an upper limit on parental pay in the school leisure scheme so that it does not become so high that it excludes children in need of care and supervision after school. It turns out that there are also large differences between municipalities in terms of manning, management and localities. Will the Council of State consider tackling parental pay and legal requirements for staffing and management of the school leisure system, so that we can have more equal relations in our country?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1603	As the representative Dørum said, it is only yet a year since the Stortinget dealt with the laws and how the school leisure arrangements were to be organised. I think it needs to be able to work a little longer and so evaluated before changes are made on a general basis with regard to crews, locations and the like, as the representative Dørum now mentioned. When it comes to developments in ours, as the representative of Dørum describes, we will follow it, and we will do so through our education directors. It will be part of the basis on which we assess the state budget situation for next year. And that's why we're going to be very careful. The numbers and feedback so far have been collected as I said in the introduction, but we will also get feedback when the spring is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1613	I would like to ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘Increasing national and international competition for money as well as staff requires our universities to be able to cope with migration. Will the State Council present its own university migration package?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1622	Professional and pedagogical development, adaptation to changing searcher patterns, and society's demands have transformed into a continuous and completely natural part of the university's business. In recent years, the scale of research and teaching missions, as well as international competition, have increased the need for change. The universities have, as I am counting on the representative Norvoll, proposed a common five-year migration package, with a total framework of 600 million. kr. The principle of framework budgeting and the self-government of the institutions gives universities great freedom to prioritise between different tasks and to decide for themselves how to resolve them. However, the Ministry has a responsibility to encourage institutions to have a room for action enabling them to compete on reasonable terms with both domestic private actors and foreign learning establishments. Issues related to legislation and the organisation of mission operations are addressed by the Mjøs Selection Board, which provided a detailed report on this issue in April. The Ministry has sent it on the phone and will return to Stortinget with proposals for further follow-up of the selection's setting. In St.meld. No 36 for 1998-99 On principles for the dimensioning of right-wing education, which are used in the management of the Stortinget, different measures have been discussed. Among other things, I have notified an assessment of the institution’s right to set up study facilities itself, that the Ministry should clarify whether there is a basis for re-establishing a system of senior education or counselling in combination with pensions, and whether more than now it can be used for post-secondary education for post-secondary education. In the proposal for a change to the university and university spheres presented in the previous week, it is proposed, as asked by the Stortinget, to give access to experimental activities, among others. with new control systems. In the context of the 1999 government budget, the Government — and the Stortinget agreed to it — prioritised facilitating the implementation of planned conversion processes by universities and universities. The full impact of the reductions in places of study is therefore not taken into account. It's also a priority to set an amount of $10 million. to institutions with specific conversion needs. All in all, I consider these measures to be suitable for giving universities better opportunities for conversion, so that they, among other things, can be implemented. be able to compete on reasonable terms with both domestic private actors and with foreign universities in the field of research and teaching. In the case of the specific migration package proposed by universities, this proposal is of such a scale that it has to be addressed in the context of the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1637	I have a certain understanding that when you talk about several hundred million dollars, it has to be seen in the context of the budget. But I felt that in his reply, the Council of State was negative about having one's own conversion package for universities and that he was pleased with the measures that had been taken. Now, of course, some of the measures that have been taken are positive things that we also support. But we feel that the situation is quite dramatic at the universities and, for that matter, at the colleges as well. There are very many older people in high positions, people who want to retire quite quickly. We see that the trade profile changes very quickly, and that they can't help. It's the private players in the market who take this over, and it might seem that what we can call the intellectual infrastructure that we've spent billions building up, now to some extent is being degraded. We believe that this is a matter of urgency, that we need to propose our own measures to ensure that the transition at universities that is absolutely necessary is under way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1642	I want to make a certain reservation to make sure that it can be understood in that way that I expressed myself in my response as if I did not think it might be important to have such a conversion package. What I did was refer to what the Government and the Storting have seen in common in the work of measures that will improve the situation in both the short and long term. And then there's a dimension to the conversion package that it's asking, that it's not just about what I think would be important, and what I think would be good to get, but that there's also something that needs to be seen in a total economic context. I thought that the representative Norvoll spoke in a nuanced and good way about the challenges that lie within universities and colleges, and I take it with me. But I think I have to stand by and conclude from what universities and colleges have asked for, that we have to come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1651	I am so pleased that the Council of State nuances, and does not totally oppose bringing such a package of its own. It is clear that we are also concerned about seeing the whole sector in the context. There's no disagreement. It's a complex and large area, and it makes sense to look at several things at the same time to get the right direction on this, but we also believe that there are a lot of trains that are now going for our universities and colleges. When we get more and more job research, and the reform of continuing education is coming, and more and more adults are asking for more and more tailored courses that are more organized for the individual, it would be almost a disaster if the intellectual infrastructure that we have built around these universities and colleges were to be confused to the advantage that it is the more private looking and good solutions that take that bit. That's why I want to stress again that this is something that hastens getting started, and that our institutions don't have to get even more rigid in the structures than they've done now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1656	The research-based public institutions are the backbone of our education and research system, and it is important that they continue to be. Therefore, they need to be able to meet these challenges. I think that in the last few years, what might seem stiff, however, has shown the monthly ability and willingness to change. Therefore, I am quite optimistic that they should be able to play a central role in the reform of competences, as the representative Norvoll now mentioned. Then I'm going to take with me the turbulence that the representative Norvoll is expressing. I hope that what we are going to discuss together when we present the State budget can bring together a set of optimism in relation to future Norwegian higher education and research.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1666	There has been a slight error, so I read the correct question text. It has no significance for reality. I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘How many new private schools have received approval or are under approval, how many existing private schools have been granted the right to expand in the last year, and can these approvals result from the public school offer’ – the original ‘school grant’ was impaired?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1675	There has always been a steady rise in applications for approval of new private schools and questions about extensions in existing schools. The Ministry is currently examining 26 applications for the establishment of new schools with the right to receive grants. Of these, there are eleven basic schools, a combined elementary and secondary schools, and 14 further schools. Since last summer, the department has approved 12 new private elementary schools and three new private secondary schools. There had to be a fundamental clarification of the curriculum before six of the basic schools were approved. This has led to eleven being approved in 1999. Only one basic school was approved in 1998. Since last summer, the Ministry has accepted 26 applications for expanded provision in existing schools. Most extensions failed to progress. I think that the private schools are an important supplement and alternative to the public school. The private spheres relieve the public school system of further training and also contribute to the testing of educational options. The religious alternatives contribute to ensuring the implementation of the human rights obligations of Norway. I point out that parents should be given the right to provide their children with religious and moral instruction that is consistent with their own meaning. When assessing the individual application, the Ministry may place emphasis on public education. However, much remains to be done before such consideration results in the school not being approved. The parent must, in my opinion, be as strong in a small town as in a large city. When it comes to the issue of authorisation, I would first like to point out that the municipality is funding the public school through its free income. framework and tax revenue. The municipality shall cover the costs of elementary school training for all children who belong to the municipality. When some of the children go to private schools, the transfers to the municipality are corrected so that the home municipalities of the elephants in private schools get a move in the framework transfers from the country. The funds withdrawn are allocated to all municipalities according to the number of residents of compulsory schooling. The correction scheme does not therefore affect the collection of transfers to the municipal sector, but is a redistribution from municipalities that have many elephants in private schools, to municipalities that have few or no elephants in private schools. There is therefore no basis for saying that the recognition of new private schools in total weakens the funding of public schools.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1692	I thank the Council of State for the answer, where the premises for private schools are based, and not what is the serious one, namely the loss of the single school. We experience with the Bondevik government that there is a shift in education policy with several private schools, which is now actually used as a tool to help split children in the neighbourhoods and avoid what the public has actually done, as we now experience it both in the Awake and in Tana, where one actually avoids a Sami curriculum that the whole Storting has agreed to. It could mean undermining the elementary school. Doesn't the Council of State, which is responsible for all education, see this? And what will the Council of State do? Because it is time for the Storting too to discuss this from a more problematic point of view than from what the parents have rights to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1699	I clarified what is the basis for proceedings in relation to a law on private schools. The representative Knudsen and the Council of State agree that the public school supply, the university ball, is the principal part of the Norwegian education system. That's how I want it to still be. At the same time, I want to take care of tolerance and parental rights. When it comes to the claim that multiple private bullets weaken the public school, we have to put things into proportion. So that's the way it is today. 1.5 pst. of the pupils in the primary school who have private facilities. Maybe it'll increase one tenth or two based on what happened in the last year. Compared to all other European countries, this is an incredibly small number, and I therefore felt that one should not overdramatize it, but view it as part of parental rights and democratic law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1706	The council says that the unit school is the support bar itself, and that we need to look at how little private schools we have in Norway. But those who now experience the concrete situation in Tana feel that in order to avoid the Sami curriculum that we have adopted here in the Stortinget, you start private school, and by doing so, the school of unity that is in Tana is undermined. On the other hand, Awake!, it is suggested that the public school now has to be closed, while the private school has to be established. It is a matter of concern to the Council of State, and I expect the Council of State to also issue this to the Stortinget, because the authorities have a responsibility here. Although the private school should be established and there, it must be based on the fact that a single school should also be available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1713	Of course, I am willing at any time, but at any given time in connection with a document, to discuss these fundamental issues in relation to Norwegian education policy. Of course, there's reason to keep discussing what's the tree. At the same time, a different approach can also be chosen here, and it is that some parents, based on decisions taken by the big community, find that for reasons of conscience, whether it is a matter of getting an exam-free school or of getting a more profiled life-view education or other things, wanting to establish alternatives. It may be the decision of the big society that some parents want to do so, and they must also put their own efforts into it. I believe that as long as we want to be the democratic society we are, these possibilities must lead. But I repeat, of course, the Council of State is willing to come back to the Storting and discuss this on a broad basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1723	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «In budget entry. S. No 13 under Chapter Vegvesen’s own production: ‘The majority will point to the fact that in many places there is no capacity available in this part of the construction industry. [[1997-98]] The majority therefore believe that investment in new material can be reduced by increasing the use of tenders, local contractors and the rental of equipment.» How has this been followed up by the Ministry of Transport and the Road Administration?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1732	In St.meld. No 41 for 1993-94, The new overall governance system for the State Road Service, is provided that the efficiency and evidence of competitiveness is a central requirement for the production activities of the Road Service. A prerequisite for competitiveness is that the engine fleet is both dimensioned and renewed so that operations become as profitable as possible. I assume that the Storting's assumption of efficiency and proof of competitiveness is at stake. I can tell you that Vegvesenet has followed up the budget setting by instructing road managers not to invest in machines in which there is good access in the private market. Instead, machine investment has been targeted at types of machinery that are difficult or costly to rent in the private market. This has resulted in the modernisation and replacement of old and seconded materials. The self-production of the road system has therefore reduced machine costs in 1998 compared to 1997. Renting of private machinery and the use of private subcontractors have increased by 170 million on the other hand. kr or 11 pst. in 1998 compared with 1997. Furthermore, I can inform you that the Road Administration's investment framework for its own machines has been reduced by 26 pst. from 1998 to 1999. Furthermore, the Road Service has started a conversion work in the production department, where one places great emphasis on adapting the organisation to the expected task volume in the future. With regard to the follow-up of the Ministry, I can inform you that the State Consultant is committed to reviewing the competitive conditions of the State Road Service. Among other things, State Consultant has been given a mandate to consider possible measures to increase competition if this is not satisfactory. After the plan, the report will be available during the summer, and I intend to address these issues in more detail in the budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1743	I thank the Minister for Transport for the answer, with whom I am very pleased. It was really useful numbers that he got here. I am also pleased that the investments are twisted towards more special equipment, and that the general equipment used by the Road Administration is being hired by private companies and contractors. I am also pleased that there has been extensive use of tenders and smaller companies for various tasks. I also hear that the Council of State will make a communication on this further, and I am also pleased with that. I just have a little extra question. With regard to what is probably savings in the road system, are there special states that are good in this area, or is it generally throughout the country that you have been so good? It would have been nice to know that there is something that points out as a very positive area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1752	Let me first say that it was nice that both the representative Nistad and the council had the same approach and this time seemed to be both on the same line and draw the same positive conclusions. It could have been tempting today to present a list of representations that has now been requested, but I ask to be allowed to do so only when we come to the budgetary procedure and the review of the text there. It will also be the most natural thing in time. I have taken the call, but I ask for a delay in the presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1762	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The continental link of the Law has been adopted in Stortinget, but no money has yet been allocated to continue the work. [[Loose]] The justification must be that the work already done cannot be considered to have begun on the mainland. What will the Council of State do to initiate the follow-up to the decision of the Great Government?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1771	In its decision of 17 December 1998, the Stortinget Government requested northern trasé, option C, to underpin the further planning of Lofoten’s continental link. With this choice it became clear that the already built route between Fiskebøl and Rafftsundet will form part of the mainland Lofoten link. If the Stortinget had chosen a tunnel under Hadself-earth as a plan-making solution, the distance between Fiskebøl and Rafftsundet would not be part of this connection. In line with the Stortinget's decision, the Ministry of the Environment adopted a decision on 11 February 1999 concerning the sub-plan for the mainland Lofoten link. In the letter of approval of the municipality of Nordland, it is named among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Alternative C will be the basis for further planning towards the level of the regulatory plan. At this level, the uncertainty of the cost estimates shall be reduced to +/- 10 %.» The remaining route between Raffsundet and Gullesfjordbotn is now being worked too fully. The regulatory plan for the first sub-section from Rafftsundet and eastwards will be ready for approval at the end of the current year at the earliest. As regards the time for the construction of Lofast, the Ministry of Transport will come back to this in connection with the National Transport Plan in spring 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1787	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This is a project on which there has been a lot of controversy, which has been decided by the Storting and which is well known by the Council of State. Due to the nature of the project, a number of investigations have been carried out, particularly in tunnel studies. But it has always been a prerequisite that this should not delay the project. In fact, people in the area expect money to be made available as soon as possible. The engine park is there, so it should be well suited for rational propulsion. Many are lost on the road further from the department. Finally, I would like to ask: what can the Council of State do if so?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1798	The Ministry may contribute to ensuring that the progress of the project is maintained at maximum speed. What is now happening is what I referred to in my first answer: it is now working too fully with the control plans for the remaining route between Raftsundet and Gullesfjordbotn. We need these regulatory plans to be able to continue the project. With regard to the time aspect, the regulatory plan for the first sub-section from Raffsundet and eastwards will be ready for approval at the earliest at the end of the current year. That's the information the Council of State has in it. There is maximum speed in the investigation process itself, and there is no desire from the Council of State and the Ministry, or in any way any attempt, not to follow the decision of the Storting and to have the process carried out in accordance with the timetable set.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1817	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1823	‘Collective fields are currently poorly exploited. Members of the Norwegian Handicap Association have expressed the desire to use collective fields for their members who are dependent on using their own car. These are currently marked on the car route which gives them the right to use marked parking spaces. Access to collective fields for these will also improve the safety of these users, in addition to relieving the ordinary road network. Will the Council of State take action to open up collective fields to disabled people?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1830	The aim of collective action is to improve the accessibility of public transport. For this reason, it is also my starting point that these fields must primarily be secured for the public transport. However, the question of the use of collective fields has been raised several times, most recently by the representative Terje Johansen in Stortinget’s Question Time on 6 May last year. The background to the issue was then accessibility problems for public transport in these areas and a desire to limit the use of collective fields for other traffic. The Ministry of Transport has, among other things: In the light of the initiative of the Stortinget, the Directorate-General for Road Affairs asked further questions on the use of collective fields with a view to limiting the use of these fields. The Directorate of Roads is now at the start of a project called ‘Use of collective fields and comradeship’. On the basis of this, I do not now find the basis for taking the initiative to open up collective fields to disabled people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1841	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that there is work going on to look at this issue. It turns out that there are many collective fields that currently have large available capacity. In addition, buses and taxis actually use the main field, while the collective field is empty. There are many people who have wanted to use the collective field for private minibuses and for cars with more people in it. This would make better use of road capacity, both in terms of the main field and in terms of the public sector. I am happy to see if it is possible to do something about this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1852	Let me remind you of my first answer, where I stressed that collective fields are primarily for public transport. It's very important to whoever gets into these fields. I also referred to the investigations that are ongoing. Let me also remind you that the speed used in the various fields can be crucial for the availability, not least in the area of the public sector. With regard to the issue of giving priority to disabled people in relation to other road users, the problem for the Ministry of Transport is, in fact, to consider the opposite today: how can we reduce the use of collective fields from outside, so that public transport can be better achieved? So this dilemma is still something we have to evaluate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1864	I will be asked a question to the Minister for Transport: ‘NSB Agenda are the new train sets to be deployed next year in intermediate distances between 45 minutes and 3 hours. Will this new train set the NSB Agenda be inserted on the Gjøvik track?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1873	The NSB Agenda is the new name of the product for journeys on intermediate distances where the main weight of customers travels between 45 minutes and three hours. The product concerns the routes currently operated by intercity trains, i.e.: within triangle Skien, Lillehammer and Halden, and regional train, i.e. the Gjøvik-Oslo route, as well as the Rørosbanen, Raumabanen and partial sections of the Nordlandsbanen. The current framework agreement on the purchase by the State of passenger transport services between the Ministry of Transport and NSB BA for the period 1998-2001 has not taken into account investments in new material for Gjøvikbanen. However, the NSB discloses that they are in the process of concluding an investigation into the possibilities for investment in new material on the Gjøvik track that will be included in the basis for the design of the new framework agreement for the period 2002-2005.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1880	I thank the Council of State for the answer, although I am not as satisfied as I was with the answer to the previous question I had. It's clear from what the council says, that the new set is not intended for the Gjøvik track. But the NSB has promised new material, and that's when I ask: What's new material? The NSB Agenda is the new material that the NSB is now purchasing, but is it meant to be new material compared to what is on the road today? If you take one of the train sets that are on a different route, it might be a little bit better than what it is today. Is it the purchase of new material government councils thinking about, or is it the use of old, that has gone somewhere else, but that is a little better than what's on the Gjøvik track today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1887	I can see that the representative is not as satisfied here. But we should remember that NSB BA is a separate company, a separate structure that largely plans and invests in the priorities that the board does. What I responded to and relate to is the purchase of transport services between the Ministry of Transport and the NSB BA, and I stressed that there was no provision for investment in new material for the Gjøvik Railway in the period 1998-2001. I have notified what the NSB has indicated, that we will look at the opportunities for investment in new materials on the Gjøvik track for the period 2002-2005. In other words, this as requested by the representative will be assessed in the design of a new framework agreement. When it comes to what's new – completely new or partially new – I think we'll get back to this directly with the NSB in a later round.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1897	I will be asked a question to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘According to Section 1-10 of the Alcohol Code, the person who has taken over a sale or gift permit has the right to give up the old grant for 3 months in order to have a continuity in operation until a new application has been processed. If a municipality has not been able to process the application within 3 months, the appropriations will fall and jobs could be closed. Will the Council propose to amend sections 1 to 10 so that operations can continue until an application has been processed in the municipality?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1906	Article 1-10 of the Alcohol Code was amended by the Act of 16 May 1997 No. 28. The amendments have been implemented from 1 January 1998. The changes made at this point determined the previous legal state that the permission lapses when the enterprise is transferred, but that the new enterprise may continue for a transitional period of three months if the government granting the permission is informed of this. The Government of the Member States proposed to amend the laws so as to remove the right without a transitional period. A majority of the Storting decided to hold the transitional period of three months. As I see it, the system is a compromise between alcohol policy and industry. From an alcohol point of view, a full control of whomever is allowed. One also wants to prevent tactical transfers, e.g. for tax purposes or because rights holders experience a risk of being entitled to the right to be subject to an infringement of the laws on alcohol. Nevertheless, the importance of the industry and serious drivers requires that a person may sell or resell for a certain period after the transfer. In my view, the disadvantages of a transitional period without a clear time limit will be too great. Already in the hearing of the legislative changes, it was suggested from some hearing bodies that the company should continue to exercise the old right until the request for a new permit has been processed in the municipality. In Ot.prp. No 7 for 1996-97, such a change was argued. In the light of experience, it was pointed out that transitional periods could create a expectation that the new activity could continue with the sale or donation. During the transitional period, the new owner has already entered the system and the status has been established. The scheme may therefore, in substance, have the effect of restricting the freedom of the municipality in relation to the issue of granting rights. I am therefore content with the day’s order. It is based on a balance between industry’s concerns and alcohol policy concerns.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1919	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but the answer given is probably not exactly in line with what I asked for. You refer to the treatment in Odelstinget. It is one thing, but the Minister of Social Affairs, or the Ministry of Social Affairs, has also received a letter from the Municipality of Oslo, which is the grant of appropriations. This is where it lies: it is the individual municipality that grants the individual donations, not the state or the government. So I'm going to ask the council again if she on the basis of that letter where the municipality of Oslo shows that the revision of the alcohol law, among other things. with the introduction of standards of good repute, has led to more work for the municipalities, several hearing bodies and a significantly larger number of cases, sees the problems that the municipality has in having time to deal with the applications within the prescribed time limit. And does the Council agree that municipal summer meal in respect of the processing of applications should be the basis for the closure or temporary cessation of a business?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1928	Nesvik refers to a letter from the Municipality of Oslo that I don't have with me, and I can't think about the content here, but of course I'll look closer when I'm back in the department. But let me stress: the provision for a transitional period is that the powers of government to deal with the matter, in this case the Municipality of Oslo, are informed about this. It should also mean that within the time limit set here we should be able to process an application for funding further.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1933	Since the Council of State cannot recall it, I will be allowed to quote briefly from the letter: «The Community's obligation to investigate has increased in the introduction of the requirements of good repute, the number of hearing bodies has increased, and more and partly more complex assessments need to be carried out.» In addition, it states: ‘In practice, it has been shown that in several cases more than three months in Oslo it may take to deal with cases in a satisfactory and correct manner. This can often be done without the applicant being indicted and the municipality paying attention to treatment as soon as possible.’ In the letter, there's actually also a proposal to change the law, so that you can capture this. So I hope the Council of State will get involved in this letter from the municipality and look at this matter when she returns to the office. There must be something wrong when even the municipalities point out to the Council of State that due to the criteria available from the Storting, there are problems in handling applications successfully within the prescribed time. When the licensor clearly states that a longer deadline is required, the Council of State must be able to admit it to them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1948	Now, the questioner's posts about Oslo Municipality have not yet received an answer from the department, but let me underline two things. First of all, the confirmation of current practice adopted by the Stortinget, which was taken into account from 1 January 1998, also took place after a thorough assessment of the experience gained with the practice so far. Let me also say that I will of course look at the contents of this letter, and note the experience that the municipality of Oslo writes about – it is Oslo who has the greatest experience in these matters. It may also be the municipal authority that needs to be strengthened, but these considerations must be made in another forum.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1958	I have the following questions for the Minister of Social Affairs: ‘At Flora age home in Sogn and Fjordane, they will put alert tags on senile patients to prevent them from leaving the institution to start searching. NRK news reports that they are pieces of the same type as those used in the trade in goods in order to avoid theft. Can the Council of State accept that demented patients are treated as goods and subject to this form of coercion?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1967	I share the concerns of the representative Alvheim when it comes to the use of alarm systems and other technologies in the care services. But let me just say a little bit more about the way this topic is presented in the media, and first answer the question more generally. The use of technology in these services travels particularly difficult ethical dilemmas. This is particularly true in relation to people who, due to e.g.: age sentence itself is unable to choose whether or not to use technology. On the one hand, the proper use of technology can help to prevent people who are unable to take care of themselves from harming themselves. On the other hand, it involves interference with their privacy. Today, legal bases are required to use technologies that intervene in the privacy of the individual, either legislation or consent, but the law is not specifically adapted to the situation in the care and care services for the elderly. I want a thorough discussion of the ethical dilemmas that arise in relation to the use of technology in the care services. In the EEA 2000 Communication, which I will present at the end of the year, these questions will be given a broad discussion and will be considered in conjunction with other measures that can provide a better service provision. In this context, I would also like to assess the current legislation to be amended in order to ensure the legal certainty of the age claims. I see that this is not a satisfactory answer for Flora Aldersheim or other institutions with staff and relatives who are in the middle of a discussion of what is a safe care for the individual pensioner. I would therefore like to support the decision on the use of such devices as a legal basis, as a basis for a preliminary position as soon as possible and before the Storing Message Care 2000 is provided.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1980	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I am only so pleased with. It was a typical politician's response; on the one hand and on the other. But the county must have a response from the department. We could have gotten that answer right over here. Care for sentencing is actually care for sick people, and not the guessing of animals. Personally, I believe that electronic monitoring of sentencing needs to be rejected, regardless of good motives. I can, of course, have some understanding that the municipalities in a stressed economic situation are resorting to such an action, but I do not think it can be accepted. I will not be particularly surprised if in the cold water of this case in the municipality of Flora such electronic monitoring is already in place. My follow-up question to the Minister of Social Affairs will be: Will the Minister of Social Affairs ensure an overview of how such electronic monitoring of senilement patients is currently taking place at public hospitals and nursing institutions in other municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1989	The answer to Mr Alvheim's question is yes. A mapping is already being performed from the Department's side. I'm like Alvheim concerned with a more dignified care for the elderly. I am committed to securing the situation for the individual age denture better than today. I am committed to weighing the concerns of the data protection and legal security to be protected in relation to ensuring a secure care. The letter to the State of Sogn and Fjordane is not clear, but it will be important for such an answer to be clarified more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e1996	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was somewhat more satisfactory this time. I assume that when some municipalities try to monitor seniles electronically, this is due to inadequate staffing in our nursing institutions. I refer here to an interpellation debate we had recently in Stortinget, where I just pointed out that the care factor at most of the hospitals is too low in relation to the care weight. A proposal from me during the interpellation debate to increase the care factor to 0.90 was voted down by Stortinget. Despite this, I now allow myself to ask if the social minister is satisfied with the average care factor that is currently used in Norwegian nursing homes, which is about 0.64.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2003	I am very pleased that there was a unanimous increase which in 1997 adopted an action plan for the care of the elderly, an action plan to go over four years, and which now means that each municipality focuses on its own care, creating action plans, they follow up year after year. I sympathise that the department, county council and county councillors have the contact that is necessary for better care in the individual municipality. I don't think it's just the care factor that determines that we're going to get an ever better care here. It is the total service provision relative to the individual recipient’s personal assistance needs, organisation, assistance and security that are decisive.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2014	I will be asked a question to the Minister of Health: ‘The county doctors supervise the public and private hospitals in the country, but as a general rule such supervision visits are carried out after prior notification. That is, as far as I have understood, the authority also to carry out unannounced supervisory visits, and my question to the Council of State is: Why are county doctors not making greater use of unannounced supervision visits in public and private hospitals?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2023	Initially, the responsibility of county and local authorities for the organisation and operation of health services is based on a trust relationship between the State and the local government sector. The framework for healthcare establishments is legislative, regulatory and financial and human resources available. In addition, there is state control. This verification is based on the establishment by establishments of an internal control system, as required by the Act of Supervisors. Supervision is to ensure compliance with the laws, regulations and administrative provisions. Supervision may thus be characterised as a verification of the ‘lawfulness’ of the establishment. The purpose of supervision is to establish compliance with the law so that society's requirements and patient or user rights are respected. Supervision shall contribute to the quality and safety of health services and to the operation of activities in accordance with laws, regulations and administrative provisions. Thus, there is no aim in itself to ‘take’ the health service in making mistakes. The most important thing is that establishments use the supervisory activities of county doctors to improve the services to their users in accordance with the requirements imposed by society. Most supervision of hospitals, medical centres, hospitals, etc. is based on a methodology used by several state supervisory authorities in different social sectors. This method is called system audit and is based on internationally recognised standards for audit activities. It involves prior notification, examination of documents and interviews with employees at different levels. In addition, samples are carried out to check that the conditions are as described by documents and interviews. Finally, the county doctor writes a report. It is an important point that the county doctor and the person subject to supervision agree on the facts revealed during supervision. In the view of the Ministry and the supervisory authorities, careful planning, predictability and good dialogue between the parties provide a good basis for quality improvement in healthcare. The provisions on the supervision of healthcare also allow county doctors to be notified unannounced. Such monitoring visits are particularly relevant where the purpose otherwise cannot be achieved by other methods. This applies, for example: situations where the county doctor becomes aware of circumstances in which, for the safety of patients, urgent action is necessary. In such situations, only hours in advance will be notified. In other contexts, the county doctor may be unannounced. The county councils have an important consultative role in relation to municipalities and hospitals and contribute to the implementation of a number of escalation and action plans. It is therefore important that the county doctors have a trust relationship with the municipalities and with the businesses, such as the nursing homes. Professional supervision is resource-intensive and imposes high standards of legitimacy on county doctors. Pre-warned system audits are an important but not the only method used in the supervision activities of county doctors. County doctors and State Health Supervisors are engaged in the continuous development of their working methods both in terms of supervision and advice. I would definitely like to see it as timely that the supervisory authorities also consider developing good practices for unannounced supervisory visits. I would like to address this with the State Health Inspectorate in the follow-up to the health home supervisory report and in the planning of supervision activities for the year 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2038	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. I am very pleased with the last part of the answer, where the health minister says that the matter will now be addressed with the respective authorities. It seems obvious to me that unannounced visits to our public hospitals will have a greater effect on the detection of unworthy and illegal conditions in the care and care sector. A scheduled visit of three weeks in advance will, in my view, not give the same effect as unannounced visits. With the recent findings of several reports, it is important that the Health Authority intensifys its oversight of public care institutions and makes greater use of the possibility of carrying out these visits unannounced. My follow-up question may have already been answered by the Minister of Health, but I will nevertheless do so: Can and will the Minister of Health order the State Health Authority to carry out more frequent checks at Norwegian nursing homes, including unannounced inspections of a certain extent?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2047	The joint supervision that county doctors have just reported to hospitals, etc., is precisely an expression of an intensification of the supervision of this important part of the service and a result of decisions on the prioritisation of this fact in the supervisory work. I agree that unannounced supervisory visits should also be part of the methodology used by the supervisory authorities, and, as I said in my first reply, will address it with the Health Inspectorate in the follow-up to the report that is now concerned. However, let me say that I think that unannounced visits are first and foremost topical where the system audit will be pointless because there is no system. And it does show this report that there might be a basis for using to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2054	I thank the Minister of Health again for the answer. I can underline what he said at the end, namely that it seems that there are many places where there is no system at all – that is what is one of the problems. In the context of the Patient Rights Act, the Progress Party will propose that patients’ representatives should also be responsible for primary healthcare, including the care of the elderly. This has not been proposed by the Government, and my last follow-up question is: What is the reason why, in the context of the Patient Rights Act, the Minister of Health has not proposed that patients' representatives should also be responsible for the care of primary health care and the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2061	In connection with the work on the Patient Rights Act, an assessment was made of this issue, and I believe that we have explained in more detail in the proposition that the Stortingen has for treatment. It has been considered by me that the most natural thing is that the patient rights regime is focused on the specialist healthcare service and not also includes the care service, but if the Stortinget should come to a different assessment, I am open to a dialogue about it. That question is now addressed here in the house, and I find no basis for going into it more closely in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2069	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The manufacturer of the so-called attacker Tetragynon, the pharmaceutical company Schering-Plough, refuses to sell the tablets without prescription, as requested by the Norwegian health authorities. Will the Council of State take the initiative to have the State itself import and sell the attack without a prescription?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2078	Here in the country, Tetragynon is the only one in a single pack that has been approved with the indication post-coital anticonception, i.e., so-called anaesthetic. The preparation was authorised in Norway on 19 December 1994 and has been marketed since 1 November 1995. Tetragynone was subject to a prescription when it was approved. However, later the State Pharmacovigilance Authority reconsidered this issue and concluded that the product could be sold without high risk without a prescription. In line with this assessment, which had received broad support in the medical disciplines, on 24 January 1996 the State Pharmacovigilance Authority decided that Tetragynon should be sold without prescription from 1 January 1997. The manufacturer of the preparation, Schering-Plough, disagreed with this decision and informed that the company would withdraw Tetragynon from the Norwegian market if it was made non-prescription. The authorities may not require a manufacturer to keep a medicinal product on the market. In 1996, there was contact between the German manufacturer and the Norwegian pharmaceutical authorities on the matter, but the company did not change its position. In this situation, State Medicines Control chose to postpone the entry into force of the decision to make Tetragynon tablets non-prescription. In March 1996, the Department of Social and Health addressed the Department of Sexual Education. The clinic found it unfortunate that the manufacturer of the medicinal product prevented the implementation of the decision on the release for medical use. The clinic proposed that the State should circumvent the negative attitude of the manufacturer towards the freedom of prescription by importing and marketing the product itself. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health considered this to be not realistic. The Department's letter of 16 April 1996 to the Clinic for Sexual Education states: ‘The tasks outlined in the proposal are normally outside the scope of responsibility and competence of the Norwegian pharmaceutical authorities and therefore the Ministry does not consider it possible to proceed with the proposal.’ Nor do I find any reason to change the position taken by the Ministry under the previous Minister for Health, so I do not find the basis for taking the initiative to import and sell the so-called attack. The import and marketing of medicinal products is a highly specialised and commercial task with which neither the public has experience nor competence to operate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2094	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's clear that here, the Council of State does not intend to do anything, i.e. that we do not get this attacker on the market, as many think is right. I have to say that there is a need for action beyond the measures we have already taken, and we see that even with the many measures we have today, we are unable to bring down the number of abortions. The working party believes that if the attacker could be sold without prescription, it would help to significantly reduce the number of abortions. If that's the way it is today, that you first have to see a doctor and get a doctor's appointment to get this pill, it's clear that there are a lot of people who don't reach it within the deadline that applies to taking these pills. I would like to ask the Minister of Health once again: does the Minister of Health think that it is not possible for him to take an initiative so that we can import this ourselves?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2103	I agree with the representative Eye that the evolution in the number of abortions is such that action is needed beyond those we have put in place to date. To this end, the Government has proposed and adopted increased appropriations for the prevention of abortion and pregnancy — the largest ever committed — in the year’s budget. And we have recently presented an action plan on pregnancy and abortion prevention with a number of new measures such as: priority is given to prevention at a very high level. As regards the question of whether the State as such should be directly involved in the import and placing on the market of a particular medicinal product, as this proposal is based on, I have to say that I agree with the assessment which, after investigation, among other things. in the Medical Products Control was carried out at the then Danish State Council in Hernes in 1996, and I find no new information to indicate that we should change that position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2110	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now, it's been quite exactly three years since we dealt with the message of experience with the law on abortion here in the Storting, and then the attack was one of the points that we brought in during the treatment. But then you might know a little less about the attack than you do today. That's why I think it might not be quite right just to refer to a former government council and say that you meant that and that, and that it hasn't changed in terms of the attack. It was also the case that in Stortinget there was a majority in order for us to use the attacker without prescription. It is clear that there are other ways to implement this than to ask the Council of State for it. I will once again give the council a chance, otherwise we will have to deal with this matter in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2119	It is true, as the representative Eye states, that three years ago it was clarified that the political majority wanted the attack to be sold without prescription in Norway. That's what the government has been dealing with. It has been decided, but the decision is suspended in the case of implementation, because implementation would lead to the product not at all on the Norwegian market, and that would be even more contrary to the wishes of the majority of the population. With regard to the question of whether the State is going to engage directly in the import and placing on the market of a particular medicinal product, I cannot see that any new knowledge has emerged, either from those who have engaged in this matter, or from the representative Eye now, who would suggest that I should take a different position from that of my predecessor. That is my sincere assessment of the question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2129	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘With approx. 600 unaccompanied medical specialist positions, most of them in district hospitals, require a number of measures, including recruitment from abroad. An example from Odda Hospital shows major difficulties in obtaining the approval of a well-qualified specialist with parts of his education taken outside the EEA territory. how is it assessed to facilitate the rules of approval of doctors trained by non-EEA institutions?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2138	In order to act as a doctor in Norway, an authorisation or a licence is required. Pursuant to the EEA Agreement, doctors who are nationals and who have training and recognition in an EEA country are entitled to authorisation as a doctor in Norway. We have a Nordic cooperation agreement that simplifies the approval of doctors who are not covered by the EEA Agreement. The third group is other doctors with training and/or approval from non-EEA countries. Some of the authorisation rules were already amended in 1997. Access to licensing for specialist foreign specialists recognised in Norway was extended from 1 1⁄2 years to 3 years. Furthermore, it was opened to grant unlimited licences to specialists in disciplines where the recruitment situation in Norway is difficult over time. In addition, the rules for granting exemptions from the requirements for rotational services in hospitals and in the municipal health service were extended. In the case referred to by Odda, the doctor does not fall within the scope of the EEA Agreement because his training has been taken out of the EEA territory. The Ministry is aware of the issues related to the recognition of doctors from the EEA territory and training from third countries. I agree that today’s authorisation schemes may have adverse consequences for some of the applicants. Following the assessment by the Ministry, such authorisation schemes should be based on international agreements. However, Norway may, on its own initiative, lay down rules to facilitate doctors who do not fall under the EEA Agreement. The Ministry has therefore started work on assessing any unilateral simplifications. In cooperation with the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Oslo, the prior approval of some medical training courses in Hungary and Poland, as appropriate, is assessed. After the summer, we will decide whether to evaluate several places of education. In addition, the Ministry cooperates with the University in order to achieve simplification through an extended professional test, which is also to be conducted more frequently. This will reduce the need for practice. In addition, it would be appropriate to consider whether the system of unlimited licensing for specialists can be extended. We also consider simplifications in the recognition of doctors with education and/or citizenship from non-EEA countries, but approved in EEA countries. I'm familiar with the hospital's problems of occupying specialist positions. In conclusion, I would therefore like to make it clear that the greatest effort in terms of access to doctors will be made through increased educational capacity in Norway and the recruitment of doctors from EEA countries, who will automatically receive Norwegian authorisation – this in combination with a tight regulation of the medical market introduced from 1 January 1999. The size is well known with these measures through my response to an interpellation here in the hall on March 22nd this year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2158	I thank the Minister of Health for a very neat and constructive answer. I share the assessments that the Minister now made of the situation. I think that this question might now lie for a while. But let me still say that when I chose to address this question today, it was because of the situation we are now seeing in a number of district hospitals, with still a great shortage of specialists – it is actually increasing. Then it appears to me and others as a paradox that we may have too heavy approval schemes for doctors who are well-qualified professionally and also have the Norwegian skills necessary to practice in Norway. I hope, in the light of the Council's response, that one now, whose legislation, despite the relaxations that occurred in 1997, is not yet appropriate for our purposes, will consider the changes that need to be made. I have a simple question at the end, which relates to the tour service: can it also be relevant in the assessment to be made to assess a shorter tour service than the doctors now have, one and a half years?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2167	I refer to what I said in my first answer, that we are focused on simplifications in addition to those that were carried out in 1997. Not least, I have expectations of the solution that is going to pre-approve of some apprenticeships outside the EEA territory. We also look at simplification in relation to this with the practice of which the representative Kristoffersen was involved, in dialogue with the University, where one looks at a conversion of the test that is relevant in that context, and a shortening or possibly a failure of pre-practice in that regard.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2177	This question, from Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2180	I have this question to the Minister for the Environment, who I am pleased that the Minister for Health will answer: «Cultural memory Bryggen in Bergen, which has been on the UNESCO World Heritage List since 1993, is due. Does the Council of State agree that it is a national task to ensure that this important cultural memory appears in a state worthy of the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2189	Let me go straight to the point: the protection authorities have taken an active responsibility for Bryggen and for the three other Norwegian World Heritage Sites. This is what we're going to keep going. In ratifying the Convention for the Protection of World Natural and Cultural Heritage in 1977, Norway has undertaken commitments according to the purpose and content of the Convention. As a State Party, Norway is responsible to UNESCO for ensuring that the values underlying the nomination as a World Heritage Site are not lost. This obliges Norway as a nation in a number of ways, both in terms of ensuring a sufficient level of formal protection for Bryggen and in order to facilitate an administration capable of ensuring the physical state of Bryggen. The answer to the question from the representative, Valle, is therefore yes. It is a national task to secure the World Cultural Memory of Bryggen, but it is not a task for the Ministry of the Environment or the State alone. It is equally important that other actors, such as the municipality, owners and businesses, recognise their responsibility for the world cultural memory of Bryggen. UNESCO has developed guidelines for the management of world cultural memories. According to the guidelines, it is among other things: a requirement for a follow-up report on the condition and evolution of the object every five years. In 1994, an evaluation of Bryggen as a World Cultural Memory was carried out and a new evaluation will be carried out in the current year. As a result of the evaluation carried out in 1994, this is partly due to: start work on securing records and documentation, fire safety and physical condition monitoring. In the case of formal securing of Bryggen, most of the buildings are protected, and the municipality of Bergen has announced the start of a regulatory plan to regulate the area to special areas of conservation according to the Planning and Building Act. Management has increasingly focused attention on the state of the unrestructured part of the building mass and foundations. To get an overview of the state of Bryggen, therefore, the Bryggen Foundation, commissioned by the Riksantikvaren, has started a work on recording the state of construction. The objective is to provide a good basis for prioritising the necessary measures to plan for the future upgrading and maintenance of world cultural memories, including: with a view to ensuring optimal maintenance and restoration following high demands on crafts and architectural solutions. Good cooperation has been established between state protection authorities, municipalities and owners around the management of Bryggen. The Ministry of Environmental Protection will build on the cooperation established to find solutions that ensure the Bridge for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2202	I thank you for your answer. It was a good description of both the situation and the work. I'm glad the Council of State recognizes that preserving Bryggen is a national responsibility, which is one of our most significant cultural memories. Governments referred to the work initiated by the Riksantikvaren. On the basis of that, the Bryggen Foundation has developed a ‘Projekt Bryggen’, which is a refurbishment programme for the unrestored part of Bryggen. This is a work that can only be realised by planned long-term investment. Preliminary calculations show that work will cost 260 million. kr and take 30 years. This work can only be done if a significant responsibility is assumed by the State. It is quite right that others have also taken their share of responsibility, and will take their share of responsibility, but I would ask the Council of State to look at a distribution between the state, the municipality and the owner as the one who was practised in the restoration of the Røros settlement – and would like to have a comment on that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2209	The government has noticed that particular attention is needed on the four world cultural memories of Norway. There is a separate entry on the state budget of Røros, Bryggen, Urne's stave church and the cavalry in Alta, and there are appropriations from here that have been used to prepare the state registration of the buildings on Bryggen. It also temporarily covers an additional position in the district of Hordaland in order to deal with tasks related to the management of the world cultural memory. For the Bridge, as for other peaceful and protective settlements, the principle otherwise applies that the owner is responsible for keeping the property in the same condition. The municipality of Bergen also contributes funds to the construction of Bryggen. The estimate of costs and the plan to which the representative refers will be assessed in the usual manner. This is a very long-term work and within the framework of the guidelines applicable to world cultural memories, the Ministry will take this input into further work and assess the issues raised by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2216	I also thank you for that answer. I would like to make it clear that both the municipality and the owners have taken a significant responsibility until now. The municipality is probably the one that has granted the most money for the preservation and restoration of Bryggen, and all the rental income that the owners have received has gone to the restoration. I am pleased that the signals I have given here will be taken further, and will clarify that it is incredibly important for this long-term work that there will be predictability, that there will be earmarked funds for the bridge, and that the state will take on a great deal of responsibility. It is limited both what owners can do, whether they take responsibility, and what the municipality can do, unless the government is in favour of a significant strengthening of the municipal economy – it must be a prerequisite for the municipality to take a greater part of the responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2225	That leaves the question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-26.ana.ud1962e2234	There is no record.
