ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e27	Government proposal to Ot. pp. No 68 for 1998-99 on changes to the Working Environment Act is, as we have heard, a proposal for the right to training leave for all workers. Both the Advocate General and the Chief Spokesman of the Labour Party, Odd Eriksen, have pointed to the reform as a social policy reform, and this can rightly be done precisely because the reform takes account of the need for empowerment of society and industry, and because the legislative proposal gives all workers the right to education and training leave. The proposal is based on the position of the Buer Committee, NOW 1997:25 New competence, and the position of the Education Commission, NOW 1998:20. It is not new that workers in this country have training leave, but the law in force is characterised by contractually based leave arrangements for continuing training. If all workers are to be entitled, this right must be governed by law. What is the joy of this matter is that the parties to the process have been shown to agree on such a reform. As we have heard, the hearing bodies largely agree with this reform. And, as the rapporteur stressed, the Committee agrees in all material respects. However, the Committee assumes that the Government will follow up legislative proposals for workers who do not fall within the scope of the Working Environment Act. If the reform is to become a comprehensive reform, workers who are not covered by the provisions of the Labour Environment Act must also be entitled to do so. What will become the leading point of this reform is the practice of paragraph 2, which states that leave cannot be required if this prevents the proper operation and planning of the business. The law will have to be allowed to work before we know what the result is. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Government when discussing the situation of the apprentices. The working time of the apprentices, in line with the working time of other workers in the establishment, must be allowed to participate in the period of performance of the right of leave. As has been discussed in the past, the majority have agreed to a mandate for the Ministry to exempt certain activities by regulation. This is based on the consensus set up by the Education Permit Committee, to which the Government has continued. However, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have clearly stated in their comments that this derogation must only be used in exceptional cases. The Christian People's Party further agrees with the Ministry on the discussion of the issue of permanent and temporary addition. If there is to be a reform for everyone, temporary staff must also be entitled to leave. It has also been discussed what could happen if temporary employees were not given a right to leave. The danger of a turn against temporary addition would be present. At the same time, temporary addition is a significant proportion of the labour force. The entire Committee has disagreed with the Ministry that a right should not be legislated in such a way that it may be possible to obtain partial leave. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that both economic and family policy will be necessary and beneficial if many are to exercise the right to leave, that work and education can be combined. Yes, much indicates that it is precisely the way to pursue further education and training, which will be the dominant way in which to implement the training leave in the future. The Ministry has pointed out that this is common practice based on agreements and a desirable way to take it out. However, I am pleased that a joint committee wants to legislate on this as well. Finally, there has been some discussion about the Institute of Disputes. The Christian People's Party fully supports the Ministry's proposal to set up a dispute settlement institute. I have the clear opinion that our legal system has more than enough to do, and that it is reasonable to set up an institute of dispute which has decisive powers in the understanding of these matters. I strongly recommend the majority position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e55	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e60	The Committee agrees in all material respects. There is only one point in which the Committee disagrees. It is in terms of the type of training to which leave can be given, i.e. the concept of occupational relevance versus labour market or labour market relevance. And I note that the majority of the committee disagrees with what a unanimous church, education and research committee said when they dealt with this matter last year, because then the committee said in its position: ‘The Committee supports the Government’s view that the reform must have a dimension in addition to ensuring the needs of the business community for competent labour. Well, it's so important to realize the potential that lies within the individual human being. The feeling of mastering and the ability to develop and unfold are important to man's well-being. In this context, it is important to use an extended concept of competence where individual interests and abilities can be realised through the reform. This will, in the Committee's view, provide room for creativity and development for the benefit of individuals and society elsewhere. ‘... I could have liked to hear the Christian People's Party, as a representative of the government parties, justify why they have chosen to undermine the concept of competence, the concept of knowledge, in the rules of leave in relation to what was the intention of a unanimous church, education and research committee when they dealt with the matter in the Stortinget. I think that at the time they took a grip on the matter and gave a definition of the concept of knowledge that I think would have been far more forward-looking and more beneficial to both the businesses and the individual in a completely different way from what the committee has now ended up with. I'm afraid the committee has ended up with a concept that may seem restrictive. I could also imagine asking if it might be relevant if it turns out that it works this way, to reconsider the provisions of the law and the use of the concept of professional relevance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e72	As I said, I see, like previous speakers, this as a social policy reform to the delight of both workers, businesses, business and professional life. Much indicates that investment in primary and secondary education is the highest return on investment capital. This must be the basis for and the pillars of the reform. Once we have used the concept of professional relevance, it is precisely because this should be a reform both for individual workers and for the activities in which they work. That is why we consider it reasonable to use the concept of professional relevance, so that this is not a general alternative way of obtaining education and careers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e79	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e84	This reform we are currently dealing with a bit, has been a much debated reform for years, and has been dealt with in the Storting with different angles of incidence several times. I want to state that for the Right, continuing education is an important element of the knowledge society we want to build for the future in Norway. It may be a paradox that the worse we do basic and further education in Norway — or the majority have managed to do it — the more continuing education and training is needed. But I believe, in any case, that the pace of change in our society is so high now that in almost all areas of our society there is a need for continuous updating and further development of knowledge. It is important for a well-functioning labour market that as much as possible update their skills and develop their knowledge so that we can meet new needs. The questions, of course, are: how much is public involvement going to be? And what roles should the public have in this context? In our opinion, we are entering a situation where, for many years to come, labour will be highly sought after. We will have a situation where employers will have to compete more closely for the labour force, among other things. the terms and conditions under which the enterprise offers are offered. At the same time, the companies that survive know that in the future they will also have to increase their skills in their businesses. There is therefore good reason why continuing training is more and more widespread in enterprises without being imposed or organised through a special education reform. Those who have fallen behind are, to a large extent, the public sector – among others. The teacher sector is one area where a number of proposals have been made by the Right and we have extra funding for further training. There has been a great need. So you could have asked yourself, is there really a need to legislate on the right to leave? Is there a need – and this question we have thought thoroughly through – to ensure that you get this kind of right? It is likely that such legislation will help to increase activity in this area in relation to voluntary activities, and it will be able to involve parts and sectors that are lagging behind in the development. This is why the Right has also advocated a reform in which the right to follow-up training is enshrined in the Working Environment Act. But we think it has been difficult to deal with it technically in this context and to legislate without at all having completed the discussion relating to the financing of these issues. This is very closely linked and, in fact, funding should be on the table at about the same time as the discussion on how to legislate this reform. I will be allowed to base one thing on the Right: in this context, we believe that in terms of funding, this is a reform that the social partners must primarily take responsibility for, that the public role here is to ensure that there is provision for continuing education and training, and that the public must take responsibility for their own employer policy. It is not necessary to calculate a large bill for this reform for the Storting and to expect the costs to be taken into account here. These are actually costs that both the employer and the employee themselves should be able to take a greater part, because it will be directly useful to them. With regard to the proposed legislation itself, it has been said from several speakers here that the Committee broadly agrees. I'm not so sure. At least I would like to point out that we disagree on a number of points. We would like to see a different structure of this right than what the majority has come up with, and we are concerned that the majority has come up with a law that does not necessarily take into account the need to adapt it to many different jobs. Building a Future Norway is to ensure that the undergrowth of Norwegian enterprises also survives, and that the rights are not developed so strongly in Norway that they undermine the economic potential of, among others, Norway. small farms in District Norway to survive. We, together with the Progress Party, have wanted to clarify the terms used in the law, namely key positions and operational problems, and to make it quite clear in the regulations that in smaller enterprises, all employees in given situations could have a key position, so that if some of them go into leave, it could lead to major operating problems that would make it possible to suspend the law in these situations. We want it to be expressed through the regulations of the legislation. If we had done that, it would have made it easier for us to live with the other parts of the majority position. So to the other questions that we have deviations on. The case rapporteur has gone through them. The Progress Party and the Right are united on these issues. First, the question of temporary staff. It is true in Norway that the majority have adopted very strict rules for temporary staff, and for the vast majority of temporary staff, this law will not apply in any case, because they do not meet the requirements for working time. If they had complied with the requirements of employment, it would have been illegal according to the majority that adopted in Stortinget. What remains as a residual piece are largely the project staff around, and those who are at the temporary goals. And for that group, we think it would be unnatural for them to be entitled to leave during that period, precisely because in that type of key position, you'll almost automatically be inside a project to finish. It is a little inconsistent what the majority here say about temporary employees, if one does not in some way assume that very many do not follow the law that they themselves have adopted for temporary employees. And the comparison with the EU does not hold, since the rule works for temporary employees that are completely different. In a number of EU countries, there are no such restrictions on temporary employment contracts as the one we have in Norway. With regard to the question of competence requirements, we have wanted to use the term ‘documented competence’. In fact, we think it's exact. In those areas where it is not accurate, the Buer Committee has already proposed that more work be done on instruments to identify documented competences. We don't want to create a dispute subject now. We believe that we first have to try how this works through cooperation in the companies. We feel that the implementation of this reform and the issue of a dispute, which will have three decisions to take down businesses at the time of its introduction, could be quite wrong in relation to the conclusion of this reform, especially in the smaller enterprises. We believe that the negotiator is good around the companies, and that it is in the interests of employers that employees take continuing training. We therefore consider it unnecessary to establish this dispute immediately. We're open to it being a big problem, you get to get back to it, but we think a soft phase of this reform will be to do it without any issues of dispute. I have mentioned the concern of smaller enterprises. What matters to us is that we have also been involved in some liberalisations that imply stronger rights in this proposal than the Government has provided. This applies, inter alia, to: the right to part-time leave. This also applies to the question referred to by Odd Eriksen, namely the practice of the standstill rule in a year. In both of these areas, we agree that it will be better and more adapted to work, which is so terriblely lacking in how this fits, that you don't set a standard for being on full-time leave, as a law makes easy, but that you make it clear that you have the right to take leave in different ways. We think it's positive if you can combine continuing training with being active at the same time. But I want to stress that we agree with what Odd Eriksen said about suspending from the Karen rule in a year, you have to follow the practice of this paragraph that Stortinget has introduced, and adjust it if experience shows that it does not work well, or that it creates unnecessary conflicts. The aim has been to get the width of the possibilities that exist, and not to force people to lock themselves to take larger leave at a time because it is more difficult to get less leave.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e116	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e119	This is one of the important reforms in raising the skills of businesses and businesses, one of the reforms to enable Norwegian business to meet future needs. It is with a little wonder that I record that the Right adopts such a passive and problematic attitude to the matter. One of the areas that you are now saying from the right is that you would have liked to have seen it in place so that it would have done better is the economic part. It's possible to agree with that. But then it must be timely to ask the Right if it is not such that the Right sees that this reform will be easier to put in place, and also to work for the small businesses that are concerned to the Right not to be able to cope with this reform, if we get to a funding mechanism where the public is also involved in taking part in the load, so that this can be easier for all businesses. So I could need to get the Right to clarify its understanding of point 2 of the law, where it says: ‘However, training leave may not be required when this would impede the proper planning of the employer’s operations and staff dispositions. ‘... As I read this sentence, it's pretty strongly formulated. There is also a very open wording that makes it possible for businesses to have a strong tool to postpone educational leave for a little longer when they are not feasible for practical reasons. The reason why I am a little stunned by this is that you stress the problems that may arise, because someone may require leave at a time that is not appropriate, so that a company may have problems with it. The way I interpret it, this is a strict rule. If you have a legal interpretation here that is not obvious to me, I would like to have it explained.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e131	On the issue of public funding, our starting point is that it would have been easier to assess the impact of the decision we are making today if we had at the same time seen how funding was going to be solved in this area. There are different elements of this continuing training reform: there are questions about new opportunities, and there are questions about traditional continuing training. It's about a wide range of subjects. It may well be that public funding would be natural in some cases, especially for those who have not received a basic education. But our starting point is that the public should follow the roles it has in organising educational provision through the educational institutions and its responsibilities as an employer, and, of course, to lend through the Loan Fund in a normal way, as in financing student leave. We do not want the state to have a role in financing large parts of this reform. In that case, it will be terribly easy for the parties to negotiate a fair settlement if they can make the Bill to the Storting. As for the question of the interpretation of the law, I can read that paragraph strictly and see that it largely covers all the needs I mentioned in my article. What we're trying to do is to clarify that it's going to meet those needs, because it's open. It will always be a question of how strong operational problems you need for example. may refuse a permit. You also need to discuss how long you need, for example. may suspend a permit. We also believe that we should be able to suspend for quite a long time, for example. as regards the examples we have given in the position on the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e144	I was not surprised when I heard Erna Solberg's posts. The right comes down to this reform in many ways, as in so many other reforms. I perceived the way she expressed herself, as if there were a lot of cross-thinking related to the Right in reality. In particular, there is one area, namely funding, where the representative Solberg expects the public to be a very small participant. At least it had to be perceived this way after her post and the reply to Karin Andersen's reply. But I think that Erna Solberg must also take inward that there is an income policy cooperation that has laid the basis for the entire reform of continuing education and training, and that there are also leading developments in the financing of this reform. This fall, the State Council of Lilletun has come to the Stortinget with its budget, where the Government, among other things, alerts statutory secondary education for all adults. I am convinced that when you put such leadership on the part of the Government, which is likely to have a majority vote here in the Grand Duchy, the costs that will be borne by the public and will also be part of income policy cooperation, if they are the result of the nature we have seen in the past. And then the question is: does Right expect that income policy cooperation, if it were to be in the spring, should not be part of the funding, as it was when the reform of continuing education and training was launched in full by three parties and the public was significantly involved? This is what is also at issue in the future related to educational leave.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e152	It is said that the right “comes to the bottom ” because we have a different view, which is that there is actually an incredible amount of continuing training and is a huge interest, especially from employers, in many places, to get their employees to take both continuing and continuing training and a high level of competence. Our understanding is that a lot is happening, and there is a natural dynamics that will result in continuing education and training coming on the agenda around the companies and in itself might make it quite unnecessary to carry out a major reform related to this. I said "maybe". Once we go into it, it's because we think we might get a larger width of it by going in for a law enforcement. But initially, we have more confidence in the social partners in the companies than we necessarily have to regulate everything. Once we've chosen to do that, it's to make sure that someone is following, and that there's a big layer of division between those who are implementing it and those who are not implementing it. On the issue of income policy cooperation, I believe that income policy cooperation is a problem of democracy in Norway. It shifts power from this room, budget responsibilities and appropriations from this room – priorities from this room and from the people and out to the social partners. We have repeated examples of that being done. An example of this is the AFP reform, in which some employees in Norway are not allowed to participate today, because they are not within the negotiating parties. But at the same time, the bill is paid too much by the public. And for the Storting, it wasn't the priority welfare reform. The priority welfare reform at the time of the Storting was entirely different, linked to young children’s parents. Nevertheless, it was implemented. I see such things as a little democracy problem. But that might not be the way the Workers' Party perceives it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e161	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e164	I first want to record the suggestions from SV that have been included in the setting. The reform of continuing education is one of the main issues dealt with by the Stortinget during this period. SV is proud of it, because there is a case SV has been at the forefront of it, and it is of crucial importance both for individuals and for society. The perspectives in this case are big. It is important political action that has now been taken to launch a knowledge and competence effort for the 21st century. It's one of the important strategic pieces of a visionary industry initiative. It's a joyous broad consensus, sailing if one in some areas maybe is a little lukewarm and disappointing a little as compared to not seeing that this is a nutritional effort that most people should be interested in. The law shelter is now in place on paper, and now it's going to be put into life. Then I think there must be a revolution in many people's minds, both in many workers and in many business leaders, perhaps especially in the public sector, and it must be followed up by a political will to create a financing system that ensures that this right applies to all. In a modern working life, tasks and organisation will change much faster than before. Competence must be renewed and changed. Each one has far more to come with than what we have seen and developed today. Capabilities and talents lie unused, creativity is not triggered. If each one is to be able to take more power and control over his own life and not be given what others find out, we must give each one a knowledge capital that no one can take from them. Some call it a new division of power between labour and capital that one can take his knowledge capital and go there one will sail and get the best paid for it. So if this is going to be something other than a floss, we have to make sure that this right and the ability to get lifelong learning and re-education is a right that is to be given to everyone, and that it has to be given leave, so that you can get part of it. Otherwise, there will be large class divisions between people and between regions and countries. For society and business, the reform is crucial, because we are entering a knowledge society. What has amazed SV most about the treatment of this is that, in our opinion, the majority rests most on yesterday's thinking about knowledge. The majority chooses to use the term ‘vocational’ for continuing training which should be eligible for leave. It makes the framework for leave too narrow, and is not in line with the position of the church, education and research committee when dealing with the reform, or with what was the starting point for it. When you can combine knowledge and skills in different, unfamiliar and new ways — other ways of doing things — that's when the inventions occur, that's when the new ways of organizing work emerge. I believe cross-competence across – in new ways – will be an absolute advantage both for the individual employee and for the individual enterprise in the future. It is not so easy to find out what kind of competence it really is that is ‘professional’ for a plumber, for example, or an auxiliary caregiver. Perhaps a year at the theatre school or elementary school in Urdu could be just as relevant to doing the job at e.g. Ullevål hospital. I don't ignore it. For a teacher, almost everything had to be relevant, because a teacher should be able to communicate most of it. In “my previous life” – in kindergarten – I have to admit that I dreamt that we would get a carpenter, or someone who could sneak, to work there. If, as a kindergarten assistant, you could get an education in the snow, I think it would be an enrichment. I think that maybe both the committee and the government have had a little too much fear that in the industry you would go man of houses to take a basic course in Japanese art brotherhood or something like that. I believe the father because it's small. I think most people are concerned about strengthening the subject you have, but that you have to be much more open to see the unfamiliar and untraditional combinations of subjects, and that it will be a great advantage in the future. So for this, companies should be able to be exempted by regulation. I see that the majority wants to be very restrictive in this area too, and I'm happy about that. But I and SV perceive that what is stated in paragraph 2 of the bill is sufficient and gives companies sufficient leeway to postpone leave until it is practicable to have it implemented. The fact that someone should be completely exempted, we believe, is contrary to the intentions of the whole reform.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e187	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e192	Now, the representative, Karin Andersen, has pointed out in several respects to the joint comment of the Church, Education and Research Committee, and he believes that what the Municipal Committee is now doing is not consistent with the objectives set by the Church, Education and Research Committee in its decision-making process last year. But how will the representative Karin Andersen interpret what the church, education and research committee says? So this setting is with the Church, Education and Research Committee. They have no comments, and they have then interpreted their own decision. I thought it was the church, education and research committee that was right to interpret its own decisions, so I don't see the whole point of repeating until it almost gets tiring that this, as the Committee has now done, is not in line with the church, education and research committee's basis. I interpret the comment from that committee into our position so that they accept our interpretation, and that it is also in line with the interpretation of the church, education and research committee itself, which was the basis of its decision-making, which was from a consensual committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e197	It is true that the matter has been in the church, education and research committee, and what I have asked for is a reason why the parties have changed their positions in the meantime to this matter, and what is the reason why they have chosen to narrow it down. Because I understand that there has been a party treatment on this, and that a different position has been reached. That is the basis for the changed position that I have been concerned with, and cannot find any reasonable explanation in the submissions that have been made, or in the written material that we have prepared in the Committee. I see that Lodve Solholm's contributions now confirm that there has been a change here since the position of the church, education and research committee, that it limits – narrowing down – the concept of knowledge. SV disagrees with that, and we'll get back to it. At least it might be interesting to hear whether the parties – when you get experience of this and see that this might be too narrow – could be interested in looking at this concept, so that we achieve what is the intention of the reform, namely that it should “give room for creativity and development for the benefit of the individual and society elsewhere” as it stated in the setting up of the Church, Education and Research Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e202	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e205	I have heard a few of the SV's representatives express great pleasure at the reform that is under consideration today, and of course we can join in on the Labour Party too. It is a great event for the movement of workers to get the sense of such important, heavy principles in the world of work that are being decided upon today. I will come back to the debate that has taken place between professional and work relevance. But I also want to mention to Stortinget that when the Church, Education and Research Committee, which has been dealing with the reform in its entirety, met in the OECD in Paris – where the OECD has had a review of the reform of continuing education adopted earlier by the Stortinget – we were told that we were now at the forefront of Europe and had the most advanced reform of continuing education in place in Norway. Also in the Nordic Council last week I registered that, with regard to the large working group that has referred to working life changing, Norway is in a special class, not least in relation to the decisions taken related to educational leave. I think that's very important to emphasize. At the same time, when we talk about the right of leave for all, we must not forget that distribution policy aspect either. There are a lot of people today who have the right to educational leave, but it's often those who have high and long education from before. It hasn't been a right of leave for everyone, as we decide here tonight, and it's an event that revolves around far beyond its own limits. In relation to Erna Solberg, I must say that I hope that she and I can agree that this is absolutely within the democratic lines both the Right and the Workers' Party can nod together. The combination of work and education I think is very important. There, we gave strong leadership in the treatment of the reform of continuing education and training. We want to see completely different patterns of education for adults — that is, a combination of work and education. The majority decision put forward here is entirely in line with what we have been dealing with in the United Kingdom in the past, and is also very close to what the Hearing Officers have stressed, namely that you get a combination – that you can have work, take leave and go back and forth. It's very important. So to the terms "professional" or "working life relevance". I feel that the term ‘professional’ is a very broad term. Here there will probably be legal conflicts and interpretations of what's in it. You'll certainly spend a lot of time on it and come up with a lot of different conclusions. But I think, based on the hearing bodies and the reality that I have a certain feeling, that if the term 'professional' had not been in place, the consensus in the committee position would hardly have been present. I believe that the social partners, when they were going to negotiate later on about replenishment of money, would not have reached an agreement if the concept of ‘professionally related’ had not been in place. I understand SV's views on the working part, but I recorded earlier in the debate today that Øystein Djupedal was concerned about small and medium-sized enterprises. I don't think it would have been a simple matter for a worker in a five-person company to get a leave if this one did not have a professional connection. I think that's important to emphasize. At the same time, Karin Andersen has also come to realize that we had the attitude to treatment in the education committee. There we concluded that we had no comments on the majority position of the municipal committee on that point. You should not refer from closed committee meetings, but of course you had a debate related to the concepts. And then, finally, when I've boasted so much of the reform as a whole, that this is actually one of the most important answers to the importance of income policy cooperation with three parties. There are very many of the other Nordic countries that have not. There are a number of European countries that have not been created, but for which Norway has taken the lead, and it is important to bring it with it. And finally, since the Council of State is going to have the word after me: it's a complicated area, but if you have educational leave without pay and get sick, I hope the Government is now assessing what social welfare schemes you might be able to get into in such cases.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e235	Let me begin by saying that I am satisfied that it is a largely broad support to the Government's proposal for the follow-up to the right to continuing education. This is an important reform, which has been discussed by many. High rates of change in society, technological development and increased competition make new demands for skills, and both companies and workers must have the capacity to convert. Knowledge and competence are key factors in such a necessary transition. Licences related to development of competences are currently only provided for in collective bargaining agreements. Several workers and businesses are excluded from this coordination. However, there is a broad consensus that the Norwegian society is served by the inclusion of all establishments and all employees in such schemes. A statutory right to education leave will give an important signal that society wants to improve its skills and the scheme can act as a motivator for individuals to pursue further education. The aim has been to make a minimum provision that is manageable both for employees and employers, and which provides a balanced balance of the need for skills enhancement, consideration of the activities and stability of the workforce. However, it is assumed that the labour force will continue to work on its own, perhaps more favourable leave arrangements in different areas that may work alongside the educational leave centre. Here it is natural to point out that the bill only gives a right to leave without pay. The aim of the competence reform is to increase the competence and adaptability of the entire working life, not just of the individual enterprise. That is why the Government has fallen on a broad definition of the educational purpose. Moreover, a wide range of educational purposes indicates that there is a real individual right for the employee. At the same time, the employer has the option of postponing the time of training leave when it will prevent proper operation and staff disposal. The attitude of the Municipal Committee contains two proposals which differ from the odelstningsproposition. Firstly, the Committee proposes that training leave for courses of less than one month should be exempted from the general rule that a minimum period of one year may be required from the previous period until the next leave. The government’s assessment of this issue is based on the above-mentioned objective of making a minimum provision that is easy to practice. However, I see that the solution of the Municipal Committee can have a great deal to do and, as the representative Odd Eriksen also asked for, I would like to find suitable ways of taking care of the concerns asked by the Municipal Committee. Secondly, the Committee agrees that training leave should also be part-time and that this should be clarified in the legislative text. This issue is difficult and requires a balance of several interests. Given the reasons behind the reform of competences, it is desirable to have a right of leave which also embraces those who only need to take part-time leave. I fully agree with those who have said that very many will avail themselves of a system like this. However, the government found that it would be difficult to exercise a law-based right to leave and therefore the country on the proposal that we made. In view of employers' concerns and the fact that the possibilities of dealing with absenteeism due to part-time leave could become difficult to practice, the government has made the assessments we have made more important. I also see, as the Municipal Committee has unanimously stated, that this is likely to be a very central way of continuing training. We also want to find suitable forms here to follow up on this. Then there are a few questions about the possibility of linking all workers, including workers who are not covered by the Working Environment Act, to the right of leave for continuing training. It's basically about seafarers. Seafarers are not subject to the Labour Environment Act, and the Ministry of Industry is looking at the drafting of a legislation that will also give the professional group the same right to leave as workers covered by the Labour Environment Act. That is why we have not considered it appropriate to incorporate this into a law which does not cover that profession. The right to an exemption will, of course, be followed up as the Committee has requested, and it is exceptional that the right to an exemption will be exercised.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e257	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e260	There has been an interesting debate, which may have been a bit of faith and doubt about the lack of funding part of the reform. There have also been views on this with confidence that things can happen independently of detailed management, regulation and regulation. To this extent, it is also possible to record that sometimes the wind turns in relation to previous debates on other topics on the same day, but we should not combine these issues. However, what has been a staff theme has been the safety valve under section 2 of section 33 D, and I want to make the Council of State an anchor and perhaps also borrow some of the terminology in the professional training of carpenters and plumbers and others who have been mentioned. My question to the Council of State is: what is the dimension of this safety valve, in the opinion of the Council of State, under item 2, which is also mentioned in our verbal proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e267	However, the provision in paragraph 2 that the training leave may not be required when it would impede the employer's normal planning of operational and staff accommodation, is of course meant to be real, so that at a time when there are problems for the establishment of training leave, consideration should be given to it and the parties should take it into account. So this is, to the most extent, a provision that, in my view, should cover the objectives of the committee and the majority of the committee in the debate today. In my opinion, the intention is that one should also take account of the company's day-to-day operations, and this has been met through point 2 of the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e274	Something that has not been changed in the setting, but that there might be reason to look at in the future is the time limits in the law. The time limit, as it has now become, is quite long, and there is a confusion here as to whether the condition of educational leave is present and whether the possibility of educational leave is present. During the examination of the case, SV was in the process of creating a two-part system, where one could get a shorter deadline to find out if the condition was present, because it might not be so difficult to find out if a worker was actually entitled to such a leave. The fact that more time could be needed to facilitate the practical implementation is another matter. We chose not to promote this matter again, because one was concerned about the broad consensus that was around the matter, and it was clear that it was important not to come with any surprising moments. However, I would like to ask the Council of State if he believes that in the future there may be a basis for looking at such a two-way sharing of deadlines, so that the employer can get a shorter deadline, for example. one month, to determine or clarify whether the permit condition is present and that the time-limit for the organisation, for example: may be six months, as at present. The fact that you get a clarification as to whether the condition is present, I think you'll clear up some issues of conflict and will be able to make it clear that when the practical conditions for implementing a leave change, you can get an education much faster. Because there are deadlines for educational institutions, and it is not always so easy to wait six months to start a course of education.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e283	My opinion, as stated in the proposal, is that the general rule of law should be that the employer should respond as soon as possible. The six-month period shall be a maximum period not to be exceeded. It is that the shorter the maximum period set and the more answers are to be given, the greater the risk that the answer, taking into account day-to-day operations, planning and such things, may become no. So this is a balance that, in my opinion, goes both ways. Answers to the eligibility of training leave shall be given as soon as possible and within a maximum period of six months, unless there is a shorter period of leave where there is a less liberal period. I see, of course, that it could be possible to share this, so that the question of terms could be settled at an earlier time, as the representative Andersen was about. However, the relationship between the conditions and the possibilities of taking out leave is, to the greatest extent possible, also in relation to applying for educational institutions, in such a way that I have found it right to facilitate the provision of an answer to the issue of educational leave. It shall be given as soon as possible. That's the rule of law, and the maximum limit is six months.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e290	I notice that the Council of State operates and blows up legal texts, and I'm not going to ask an inquisitorial question about how to understand it, but rather give a general advice. In the light of today's debate, the text is allowed to be understood, to the extent that there is doubt, in the most frank and liberal way possible, in the sense that what is the main intention of what is said here, namely that this reform should be put in place and that the exceptions in place there are exceptions which are to be applied to a very small extent. But then let me ask a question of a more general nature, because we as big people, as well as the government, have a general responsibility as employers. This means that when a major reform of continuing education and training is implemented, many occupational groups will, of course, be included in the reform in the sphere of public responsibility. If one looks at only some recently mentioned professional groups, both health professionals and teachers, they have a strong desire to get the opportunity to continue training to be more focused on and to be at the same level as the major technological and other changes that are taking place in public employment. What could then be interesting to hear was whether the Council of State could give some signals as to how the Government intends to facilitate the participation of these large groups of workers in the reform, of course, and how a purely offensive, after the reform is now adopted in the Storting, has intended to exercise its responsibilities for employers. This will mean that large public groups will either sit on the school bench at any time or receive further training, and it may lead to significant staff shortages if many do so at the same time. But what that means in any case is that many will have a quality of life and an opportunity to be invested in, which many have strongly wanted and longed for – even in this room. And if I don't remember completely wrong, the government's party has repeatedly argued that it is one of the important Employer's tasks that we have to take over. So it might be interesting to get a general consideration around it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e297	Like, for example, In fact, the representative Karin Andersen said in his speech, I believe that this is also one of the really big challenges we are facing in the public sector. In the public sector, too, the need for increased knowledge, skills, new competences and migration will continue to exist in the years to come. It is equally important that professional groups in this sector are effectively given the right to continuing education and training, as other professional groups do. We know that we already have a shortage of labour in some sectors today. It is quite obvious, as the representative of Djupedal points out, that it will be a challenge to solve this in a way that provides a real opportunity to take advantage of the right to continuing training. It is for understandable reasons difficult for me in today's debate to go into exactly how this is to be resolved, but we are very much concerned about this, for this right is to be real. Then I also chose to bring up the legal text this time, because there's actually a lot of useful reading in this text. And I have, especially since representatives from SV have been concerned with the delimitation of vocational and work-related education, finally want to say that from the government side it is stated that this term, as I also said in my main post, should not be defined too much. And in this text it says: ‘Professional training covers all types of continuing training relevant to the labour market. ‘... The training shall not be required to affect the position or employment of the worker. The background is that the reform of competences is justified by the need for high skills and increased adaptability throughout the working life, and not primarily by the enhancement of the competence of each enterprise or enterprise. So, in my opinion, the representatives from SV are distorting the reform in relation to what the Government has arranged. I think that's unfortunate, because our starting point is that it should be as wide as possible. It is also provided in the legal text, for which I sometimes find it useful to read from.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e313	So the line change is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e318	It's very fast done to go a little blind in such an important debate as we have today, because the perspective that most people here are concerned about, of course, is a perspective that doesn't really go on understanding the law, but that goes on the fact that Odelstingen is about to adopt one of the most important reforms that have been adopted in the last ten years. This is probably one of the most important things that Odelstinget has to deal with in the current year, because it has a perspective that is far beyond what you might get the impression of when you're doing the law, as we've done here. It's a great pleasure day for SV, too, because we were the ones who started the political process here in Stortinget with our proposal, which later resulted in the Buer Committee, big shots, settings from the church, education and research committee – and at the end of the day. But first of all, it's not a happy day just for SV, this is a happy day for Norwegian working life, because this reform that we are now adopting is therefore in the forefront of European context. This means that Norwegian working life will have the opportunity to meet the pace of change and challenge in a completely different way from many other countries. What is genuine Norwegian, which is the most ingenious thing about the whole reform, is that the perspective has always been that everyone should be included in the reform. For all countries rates of continuing education — one can see in all reports coming from any country that a person is talking about continuing education and training. But it's just for the few. And that means that the perspective on which today's Odelstinge decisions are based is that everyone should be included in the reform. If you look at the statistics on education, you'll see that what's wrong with everything is who gets the opportunity for continuing education today. Those who sit at the top of the table, who initially have the most education, are the ones who are also the most invested in. Those who have the worst paid jobs, who sit at the bottom of the table, are also those who are least put on. And that means that legalizing an individual right to leave can erase the class distinction or the knowledge divide that exists in the workplace. That is what is happening in Norwegian with this reform, and we hope that it will also have an impact on our Nordic countries, where we have repeatedly addressed the reform. Perhaps, too, several European countries will see that there is a need to have a perspective — that is, not a perspective that excludes but also includes good, continuing training. This reform should be a right for the many, and not a good one for the few. There's a couple of other perspectives that it's also important to bring with them. What is at stake in the quality of life of the reform is also of genuine importance. So that means that you get the opportunity to be put on through a professional life. We all know a lot of examples of a worker running out of work, you're sorry after many years because you've done the same thing, you've been in the same room. The possibility of professional replenishment is, in itself, a quality of life that is very important. But perhaps the most important thing, of course, if you want to take a big look at it, is that the rate of change in the labour market is so high that this reform is also necessary for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e340	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 60]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e354	An overall committee underlines the importance of safe conditions of addition, and it is also one of the intentions of the Working Environment Act. The 1997 life-cycle survey of the Central Bureau shows that the obligation to establish written employment contracts does not function as intended. There appears therefore to be a real need for monitoring the employer’s obligation to establish written employment contracts. The employer has the primary responsibility for complying with the law and must therefore be the addressee of instructions from the Labour Inspectorate. Traditionally, the Labour Inspectorate has limited itself to providing information and guidance on the rules, but most of the hearing bodies in this case see the need for the Labour Inspectorate to provide instructions on written employment contracts, and on this basis, a proposal has therefore been made for a separate regulation in a new Section 55 G and clarifications in Section 55 B regarding whom the obligation can be addressed. The Committee considers that it is the employer who will take the initiative to draw up a draft written contract of employment and will support the Ministry's proposals. With regard to working time for children and young people, an overall committee expresses the importance of having a law to protect children from exploitation and abuse, while at the same time ensuring safe growth conditions and good learning and development opportunities for children and young people. In this context, natural participation in work and work-like activities can be of benefit to the development of children. Under existing legislation, child labour is initially prohibited, but exemptions may be granted in respect of cultural or similar work. But here it is a time limit that makes it difficult for children to participate in such activities in the evening, or more than two hours per. Day or 12 hours per day. week. The Committee recognises that this may hamper the natural participation of children in some cultural activities, and therefore supports the Ministry's proposal to introduce a derogation clause 36 of the Working Environment Act, which makes it possible to apply to the Labour Inspectorate for prior consent to the use of children for cultural or similar work beyond two hours a day or 12 hours a week. But the majority of the committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre's Party, will oppose extending the scope of exemption to advertising. As regards the right of parents to freedom in the event of a child’s disease, the Committee considers this to be an important welfare measure. In order to respond properly to actual needs, the Committee considers that it is important that adjustments and flexibility in this system be kept open throughout the life of the labour market, as well as the development and change of the labour market. The changes proposed by the Ministry are based on the amendments to the Law on Social Security made on 14 December last year, when the age limit for entitlement to benefits for chronically ill or disabled children was raised from 16 to 18 years in cases where special assistance or care is required. Therefore, in order to safeguard the intention of this amendment, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has proposed to raise the age limit in Section 33 A of the Working Environment Act from 16 to 18 years for the right to leave in the event of a child’s illness. This seems to be a logical adjustment, supported by the Committee. While we are dealing with this matter, the Committee would like to highlight something that some people experience as a problem today. In today's complex labour market, it will be impossible for both parents to take out their legitimate holidays in order to provide the necessary care for their sick children. The Committee is also aware that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has this issue for consideration. Available statistics show that few people take out the maximum legitimate number of care days during the year. Therefore, an extension of the rights of one parent to the other would hardly give rise to the major practical problems or major economic exclusions. But for those concerned, it will be of great importance, as it must be considered as an important contribution to promoting good and safe rearing conditions for all children that they have the opportunity to have one of the parents in their home under illness. An overall committee also states that, in certain cases, the rights of one parent may need to be transferred to the other. So my wish is that the department in this case finds an opening that ensures those who currently have problems in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e380	I need to say to the last time the rapporteur spoke, that the committee has been unanimous on this point. However, it is important for SV to clarify that – as it says – in this case it is in ‘cases’ that this should happen. We think it is important that the right to leave should be taken out of both father and mother. One for when opening in this area we know well how will end up, namely that mother has to take out all the leave, and that some jobs will use this as a breakpoint in order to be able to transfer all such duties to mother. I know that there are other cases to which the search light has been directed, for example. people who may have long-term absences from home, such as seafarers, and it is important to ensure that their child is given the same right to have one of the adults at home when they are ill. The SV's understanding of this note is not a broad opening, but a narrow possibility in situations where there is no other possibility for an adult to be with the child when it is ill than to transfer the permit. On the SV side, this is a narrow derogation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e387	Like the representative Karin Andersen, I would like to make it clear that we from the Labour Party view this provision which is about transferring the right to leave in the event of a child's disease from one parent to the other, as a narrow provision. We're going to use it in those cases where there's an absolute need for it, because we see the need for an adult to be with the child when it's sick. But we don't have to extend the right to transfer leave from one parent to another in such a way that in practice it will be the woman who takes out both of them's leave rights. We know that in everyday life, we men have the most important jobs in society, and we hardly have time to be home with sick children. It's everyday life, it's practice, and I don't want this practice, because we have the most important jobs, to be incorporated into law. I feel that the Council of State will take along the message from the Committee and from Odelstinget that it is important and proper to look at the provision, but that there still has to be a narrow provision to take care of the considerations I have mentioned here, and we must not make it so that the place of the woman is still at the kitchen bench and at home.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e394	There was some attention to the absolute end of the setting, and I feel the need to clarify this also from the Right side, perhaps not with so many shades. The following is in the setting: ‘The Committee is aware that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has this question for consideration. ‘... This means that from our point of view we are not prepared to say anything about how narrow this provision should be, and in that way we do not order a perfectly precise conclusion in the setting. Then the reservations must have gone around in a way. It may be subject to subsequent assessment, without a specially ordered conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e406	I am still amazed at the very conservative attitude of the so-called socialist parties towards care and family thinking. What's wrong with Mom? What we're discussing here is to facilitate safe and good relationships for children, for sick children. When a little child is sick, it probably needs more than ever someone at home, whether it's mom who's at home. Now I don't think reality is such that it's so of course anymore that it's always mom who's at home. I get so tired of this, of course, thinking of the so-called socialists. As I see developments in today's society, the young people are much freer in their thinking and in their organization of the days. I've seen a lot of cases where dad is the natural caregiver. But I stress that I see nothing wrong in that mother is at home double dose when the child is ill. The important thing is that the child has a safe and familiar person at home, preferably a big sister or a big brother. This applies primarily to the children. Which opening the department finds, we'll see. It's going to be so wide, we don't think when you're afraid to create a difficult system. Although there are some cases that we do not see as good, it is important to stress that abuse does not have to stop use if most cases are good. This concerns proposals to facilitate the right and opportunity of all sick children in this country to have a person at home. It is not polite for a 7-8-year-old to lie alone at home behind the locked door.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e417	Two things: With regard to exemptions from the working time rules for children, I note that the majority of the Committee opposes the granting of a derogation in respect of advertising. However, I would like to say that this consideration should be possible without making any changes to the present legislative proposal. The opinion of the majority of the Committee will be followed up by giving instructions to the Labour Inspectorate on the types of work to be covered by the exemption, including the non-application of access to advertising. This means that the majority’s comment that the introduction of a derogation should not allow for the extension of the working time of children in areas other than those covered by the proposal should be respected. With regard to the right to transfer leave rights between parents, it is quite right that the Committee writes in its position, that this question is for consideration by the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, and I assume that the signals given here will be included in the assessments there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e426	After the rapporteur's last statement, it is clear that the intention of what was written here by the Committee is different. The point from our side is that the child also has the right to have a father at home. We have adopted a law that will share this responsibility between the parents, because we believe that this is also a right that the child has. SV has previously promoted this proposal, without having received a majority, for some should be able to be with the children when they are ill. But I think the rapporteur has a relatively simple view of how such an open-ended home would be practised. I record that she has a completely different view than SV of what kind of social development and family responsibility one should have, and how society should facilitate it. From our point of view, we have been willing to give this opening for transmission because we see that in some cases it is practically impossible without it. But in those cases where possible, we believe that the law should be such that it respects the child's right to have one of the parents at home, and that the right to have one of the parents should be such that the parents should have each other's rights. We believe it is important both in the ordinary, traditional families and in the other families that you get a job that makes it possible for your mother to have a job, and not as it has now been, that when you have to practice some of these provisions, it is the mother who has to take out all the leave and thus get into a worse position with the employer than with the father. This is a long experience, and that is one of the reasons why we have wanted such a division, and that we believe that that principle should be followed further.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e431	I just want to comment and clarify what the committee has actually said in the position on the right to freedom in the case of children's disease. I'll quote what the committee says: ‘The Committee is aware that in today’s professional life, and with the practical problems each family may experience in relation to the illness of the child, it may be necessary, in certain cases, for one parent’s rights to be transferred to the other. The Committee is aware that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has this issue for consideration. ‘... That means that the Committee has not in any way taken a position on the intention of the matter, and I would say at least on behalf of my party – and I think I have several parties with me in it – that I do not think it is a basis for interpreting that comment from the Committee there that Mr Kvalbukt has made from this speaker. In that case, it must be on behalf of the Centre Party and not on behalf of the rest of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e440	I would like to make it clear, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, that we stand for what the Committee has said, and the Committee says at the end of the discussion that it is aware that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has this question for consideration. So we haven't taken a position, so we get to take the debate and do it when the Social and Health Ministry's assessments are on the table. And then, of course, we're familiar with that, and that's the point in the sentence before it. So the debate on "madness" and "wideness" here is something we look forward to in the Christian People's Party. We're not going to take that right now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e447	No Gulf of Quail has spoken twice in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e451	I think it might be right to repeat the last part of my post. There I said, ‘A single committee then also states that, in certain cases, one parent’s rights may need to be transferred to the other’. And then I go on for my own account: ‘My wish is that the Department of this matter will find an opening which will safeguard those who are currently having problems in this area. ‘... And I'd like to repeat that, I'm on it. The purpose here is to find an opening for those who have problems, to ensure that all children in this country have the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e466	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 61]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e474	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 - 3.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e480	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left, put forward a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to promote a comprehensive proposal for the assessment of cohabitants and cohabitation definitions, so as to avoid different consensual definitions in different areas of Norwegian legislation and to avoid their unintended consequences. ‘... This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e523	The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e745	The party of progress has notified that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e805	The Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left Party have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e1236	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e1243	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e1249	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposed no. 1-4, by Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 5 and 6, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 1, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the regulations take into account that all employees of small enterprises can have key jobs, how long leave can create major operating problems. ‘... This proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e1290	To No 1 introduces an aberrant proposal, No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: « § 33 D nr. 1 is replaced by the following:Permanent employee who has been in working life for 3 years is entitled to leave to participate in organised training offers that provide documented competence:Permanent employee who has been employed for at least 2 years is entitled to full-time or part-time spermatology for up to 1 year. After 5 years of employment, employees are entitled to up to 3 years of full-time or part-time work. Education beyond primary or secondary education needs to be professionally related to the right to leave. Vocational training for all types of continuing training relevant to the labour market. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e1330	There are two different proposals here. That is proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the Right, to the first and second sentences, and that is proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party, to the third sentence. The first is to be replaced by an alternative between the recommendation of the first and second sentences and proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: « § 33 D nr. The first and second sentences are replaced by the following:Workers who wish to benefit from their right to education leave must apply in writing to the employer. The application to the employer shall include information on the professional content of the training, the duration and any admission to the training establishment. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e1348	The alternative between the recommendation of the third sentence and proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: « § 33 D nr. The third sentence shall be replaced by the following:In the case of education other than primary or secondary education, justification for work relevance must be given. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e1390	The Progress Party and the Right have warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e1400	As No 6, 7 and 8 are adopted, when the President considers that proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party and the Right, fall away. – It is confirmed by the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e1411	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: « § 33 D nr. 9 shall be replaced by the following:The King may lay down detailed rules for the completion and implementation of the provisions of this paragraph. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e1437	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e1444	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e1567	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16-lower-2.ana.ud675e1575	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
