ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e26	First of all, I would like to thank both the case spokesman and the committee for a forward-looking attitude in relation to an important topic. It is with pleasure that I can see that there is a high degree of agreement on the work on the dimensioning of study capacity in right-wing education. As the Committee points out, the principle of dimensioning study places will be re-examined in the light of the Mjøs selection. In the meantime, the Government will work according to the orientation lines laid down in this message and in this setting. Applicants should, as far as possible, receive the training they want, and preferably where they want it, but this must be balanced against the need to provide sufficient skilled workers throughout the country by ensuring a regional distribution of study places. This applies to important areas such as health care, school and kindergarten, but also to information technology and other nutrition rights. I notice that there is a connection to the central establishment of the study community needs special attention. I remind you that the message shows that in a few years' time the study capacity currently established will provide a sufficient number of professionals in a profession where there is still a shortage of professionals. This is based on a number of assumptions, and the greatest uncertainty can be associated with the student application. Information and recruitment will therefore be an important task. Competence reform and internationalisation are challenges that impose new demands on institutions. Only viable institutions can provide an equivalent level of education across the country. Universities and universities need space for action to ensure professional development and development of adaptability. The Ministry is now sending out a message to the universities that they are being given an extended mandate to set up studies themselves up to a certain level. This strengthens their ability to meet new demands and the demand for new studies. The Committee emphasises flexibility, including: by increasing the time-limit after which the message will rise or decrease the amount of time allocated for the message. I note that there is agreement that it may be necessary to reduce the number of places of study where capacity is high and the growth of students and candidates has been high, and that this applies both to the general faculties of universities and to university studies. I agree with the views expressed by the majority of the Committee on Regional Balance in Education and Research, and that decentralised provision is particularly important for those who, because of work and family, have difficulty moving to established places of study. In a number of cases, the Ministry is asked to assess the scheme of student funding for private individuals in the light of the new schemes for adults taking part in continuing training. This will be taken into account by the Ministry in its study support work. The size is today invited to decide to ask the Government to submit proposals for measures to increase the capacity of medical training and to place the new study places at the universities of Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø. I refer to such an increase as being consistent with the Government's ratings in the Storing Message. The admission to medical training has already increased monthly at all universities over the 1990s, from a total annual admission of 310 places of study in 1990 to a capacity for admission of 590 places of study in 1999. In order to continue this increase in recording capacity, new places of study need to be created each year up to and including 2003. In order to implement this increase, all universities are allocated specific resources for equipment both in 1998 and 1999. In addition, there are specific opportunities to compensate for the need for decentralisation of teaching at the University of Bergen and for the development of university areas at the Regional Hospital in Tromsø. I'll give you advice as soon as possible, set in motion the work Stortinget here asks for. Development requires the resolution of economic, local and personnel-related problems. I want to discuss these questions with the universities that it owes, and I want to come back to the Storting on the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e47	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e50	My question is whether the last Council of State was in the middle of it. Only in one area are we making a very concrete decision today, and that is about medical training. Suffering if it is not expressed in writing in the comments, however, there can be no doubt that there is a decision such as this. has its background in what the Government has proposed and received support from the Stortinget that we should restore medical training at SiA, the Central Hospital of Akershus. Across the country, this has triggered negative reactions. There is particular concern that there will be an even stronger centralisation in the recruitment of professionals. In the budgetary position of the Social Committee, which has also addressed this, a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Parties and the SV, believe that the turmoil seen throughout the country must be taken seriously. The majority point out that it is important to implement measures that can counteract increased centralisation as a result of the current strengthening of SiA by obtaining university clinical status. One thing is to increase capacity, but it must be done in such a way as to ensure that these environments are attractive jobs, that professionals can be recruited there, which is the largest bottleneck in medical training. I am glad that the Council of State announced that he would come to Stortinget with this, but he did not say anything about when he would come back. I would therefore like to know how he intends to come back, preferably as quickly as possible, to avoid centralization.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e57	I believe it is right that the representative, Mr Konglevoll, says that there has been a strong concern that one has expanded the capacity of the SiA to include medical training, as in the past. Now I would like to remind you that it's not about a new faculty, it's part of the University of Oslo, and another is about to add up to a decentralised model, similar to the Western model, including other hospitals in this health region. So it's not quite as dramatic as it might seem at first sight, but at the same time it helps us to increase our capacity, which is important. I am therefore glad The Storting has joined it unanimously. But it is clear that the matter raised by the representative, Mr Konglevoll, is important, which is very clearly expressed in the comments of the Social Committee, as the representative said. I share the views expressed in that comment. I have also noticed what the church, education and research committee says. I'll come back to Stortinget with the matter, and the most natural place will be in the budget proposal. It's, as I said in my post, big things to solve here, also on the economic side, and then the budget proposition must be the right place, so that's the goal I'm working with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e62	Now we've heard a lot about medical training and especially the conflicts when setting up 30 medical colleges at SiA. However, what I'm more concerned about, and as it seems we're about to forget, has to do with teacher training. I refer in particular to the article of the VG on 17 December, where the title reads: ‘The teachers are slaughtering the teacher’s education’. On several occasions from this pulpit, I have raised the topic of teaching social skills and how to tackle behavioral problems. Now these teachers say that this actually doesn't give them anything. In Norwegian Skoleblad nr. 33 December 4th, Ogden has an article in which he asks if it is not soon time to start social competence teaching at school. And Peder Haug at the Hochskulen in Volda talks about anarchy in teacher education, frozen ideologies, traditions and their own cultures that new ones can bind up in and can't break out of. What they say, in my words, is that, first of all, education is old-fashioned, it's stiff, it's unable to renew itself, and it lacks essential elements in a society as complex as what we have today. In view of the fact that the Council of State wants to maintain the number of places of study and wants to maintain the status quo in most cases, my question is whether he takes this on board and does something about it in relation to teacher training both in the short and long term.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e73	Of course, the matter that the representative Evje addresses is important, we need a good teacher training. In the case of the essays that the representative Evje pointed out that the teachers are slaughtering teacher training, I would remind you that it concerns some individual students and not a representative body for the students. And what might be more important, is that there's an education that's now changed, they're saying about it. New education was dealt with here in the United Kingdom in 1996 and has been started since the 1998 academic year, and in two years the first students will come out of that education. As a result, a number of measures have actually been taken on the basis of a wide range of measures, and on the basis of the treatment here in Stortinget, it has been carried out by the Ministry. So with such a big review of the teacher's education recently, I think we need to try out what's now going on at the colleges. This does not mean that one cannot implement more of these things, for example: social skills training, where a range of programmes that have been tested now can be imple­mented. Today, there is a headline that says that we have tried more in ourselves than most countries when it comes to measures against bullying, but at the same time we have to admit that we are struggling to figure out what the effect is, and we have to admit that there is a good deal of work left. So the teacher training has actually changed, and it will be followed up responsibly from the department.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e82	I quoted earlier in the debate the unanimous opinion of the Committee that the Communication represents ‘a step towards a longer-term and strategic approach to assessing study capacity’, and that this is a right direction to go in. Now the dispenser who is present in the position regarding the dimensioning of medical training has been promoted in a few articles. I could imagine asking the Council of State if he shares my opinion, that putting the traditional rivalry between the Norwegian educational institutions at the heart of capacity building is at least not a strategic and long-term approach. We have pointed out in the proposal from the Progress Party and the Right that there has been a dramatic change in the number of Norwegian students who in recent years have taken medical training abroad, and it has nothing to do with the purchase of study places that the State has previously conducted. These are students who take the education on their own initiative and at their own cost. So I want to ask the State Council if his department has any updated overview, if you know how many Norwegian students are in medical training abroad, and how this will influence the availability of new doctors in the next six or seven years is the time it takes to complete medical studies. The second thing I would like to mention is closely related to this question: The Right Party and the Advance Party also have a common comment where we point out that it is inappropriate not only to buy out study places outside, but also to target the grant scheme, as the Ministry says you will, in the direction of the study places where there is a shortage at home in Norway. Our perception is that this is a little forward-looking, little long-term and little strategic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e91	I agree with the representative, Wage, that a need for a long-term strategy in relation to higher education. It also applies to the medical study. We have to acknowledge together that the last corrected course monthly, corrected an error, for example. received medical training from SiA. Then one also built on prognosis that in and of itself looked dependable – one may have many opinions as to why they looked like that. It's probably the department's opinion – I understand that it's also the point of the majority in the big-time committee – that we need to have enough capacity in Norway for what we need for doctors. It doesn't mean that even in the future there won't be some students who take out medical training, but I think it's important that we make a strategy where we try to cover the most possible of what we need, with education in Norway. Then I have to admit that I do not have the number the representative asks for, but I will sympathise to contact the Loan Box, which is probably the one who has it, to get it out. I will also promise, on behalf of the Department, that when this matter of medical training comes back to the Stortinget, as requested, the dimension that the Right and the Advance Party – now carried out by Wohnning – must be asked for, so that the information is there, even if I will, of course, set up the policy in relation to what a majority in the Committee has said. So I didn't get the last one, I'd better get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e104	Several have not asked for the floor for a reply, nor for the ordinary debate – and that is why the debate on the matter is no. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e118	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e132	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1590]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e146	In connection with the proposed amendments to the current annual budget of the Ministry of Transport, I would like to make a few comments on a few of the proposed amendments. First, a few words about debt redemption to the former owners of the 26 regional airports taken over by the State in 1997 and 1998. With adopted appropriations for the current year, with appropriations approved for next year's budget and the proposed increase of more than 132 million. kr will be able to get rid of the debts of the former owners of regional airports from the turn of the year. For the municipalities that the state owes significant millions of dollars, this must be seen as a beloved Christmas gift. Just for the municipality of Flora, it's over 20 million. NOK in payment for the acquisition of Florø Airport. However, many other municipalities will also receive significant amounts. I'm referring to the municipality of Hadsel, with 5-6 million. kr for Stokmarknes Airport, and Westvågøy Municipality with approximately the same for the acquisition of Leknes Airport. For some of the aerodromes, final clarifications of certain contractual conditions remain. Nevertheless, for example, Vardø Municipality will now receive 14 million. kr for Vardø Airport, and Alstahaug municipality 9 million. kr for Sandnessejen airport – not least the last thing I expect the president to appreciate. The remaining amounts of these two municipalities and four other municipalities need to be clarified as soon as all contractual relationships are settled. I expect the Storting will unanimously join the proposal today. Then for railway purposes and the network of fibre cables of the railway system. Despite the fact that this year's draft government budget had not been budgeted for with rental income from the Fibre Cable Network of the Railway Agency, the bulk of the population voted to budget 50 million. kr in income. So this was done if the department now in retrospect, in the form of a letter to the committee, admits that there was a great deal of uncertainty about this. The Ministry writes: ‘The Ministry of Transport was informed by the Railway Agency that the revenue estimate was 50 million. kr could be high, but it was difficult to estimate the level of revenue for 1999 due to considerable uncertainty in the telecommunications market.» If what happened here was that one as part of the budget game here in Stortingen to get the budget to jump, just set up $50 million. NOK in a new item, there is reason to question what happened. And there might be particular reason for that because the actual rental income now turns out to be just $2 million. kr. We have to assume that the data provided by the Government is sufficient to ensure quality. When there are as big changes as what we are talking about here, the Storting must be informed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e175	I just want to have the proposal put forward in the vote on behalf of the Advance Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e180	Thore Aksel Nistad has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e183	I am pleased to see that the Committee unanimously agrees with the Ministry of Transport's proposal to grant 132.1 million. kr for the final discharge of the State’s debt to the former owners of regional airports. Together with the 2000 allocation, we will then be able to set the finish line for managing various reimbursement schemes from the time when municipalities owned regional airports. The result is good for all parties: improved liquidity in the municipalities concerned, saved interest expenses for the state and saved administration on both municipal and state levels. Payments may start after the expected decision of the Storting later today. So there's a happy news in these pre-Christmas seasons, which the case-rapporteur also made clear. Furthermore, the time has come for compensation for the fact that Storvika in the municipality of Fränna was not chosen as a base for the landing of oil and gas, and thus for a period of time, stagnation was experienced while the land was connected and road projects were taken out of the county priority. Appropriations of 12 million. For the improvement of County Road 228 Jendem-Aurosen will raise the standard on the road and thus bring benefits to local communities, the Free Municipality and More and the municipality of Romesdal. I also believe that this will be the best compensation local society can get for the loss of a landing base, and I am pleased that the Committee supports the Government's proposal. Moreover, I must point out that in the comments of the members of the Committee from the Progress Party and the Right in the vote, it states that the Government of St.prp. No 1 for 1999-2000 has proposed to convert Bane Tele into a limited liability company. This probably doesn't lead to full correctness. The Ministry of Transport, in its 2000 budget proposal, states that the Ministry has a proposal from the Railway Agency to convert the Railway Service and the Railway Tele into public limited liability companies. However, the Government has not yet taken a decision on the proposal. The Committee refers to its observations at the beginning of the budget. S. No 13 for 1999-2000, where it questions the increased size of the different supervisory bodies in the field of transport. It is important that the supervisory bodies have a staff to enable them to carry out their duties properly, in particular in areas of safety. However, it is also necessary to have a continuous review of the functions and staff of the supervisory bodies. With regard to postal and telecommunications supervision, I would like to point out that the scope of supervision has been reasonably stable in recent years. The increase in the number of posts is mainly due to the fact that the oversight has been carried out new tasks through the acquisition of the Radio Noise Control from Telenor AS earlier this year and that the supervision was entrusted with the supervision of the postal activities from 1997. I have also noted the rapporteur's comments on the use and budgeting of the fibre cable network connected to the railway system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e198	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e212	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Benn Mikalsen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e221	In Document No: 8:11 for 1999-2000, the representatives Anders Anundsen and Thore Aksel Nistad propose to exempt incubators and emergency vehicles from the use of heavy duty tyres where this charge has entered into force from 1 December of this year. In the light of the proposal, it is mentioned that these vehicles often travel where driving conditions are very difficult and that it is particularly important that these vehicles have a good grip on the road. It is strange to the proposers that these categories of vehicles are not initially exempted from the fee obligation. However, another consideration has been given to at least the same focus during committee treatment, namely the consideration of a group of people with disabilities. The person with reduced mobility uses the car not only as a means of transport, but as a substitute for the walk function. Therefore, they do not have the same possibility as a health care provider to opt out of the fee, e.g.. by driving collectively in the city. This is the background to the extension by the proposers of their proposal to include disabled persons with a parking certificate for persons with reduced mobility, which concludes the whole Committee. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Right and the SV, agree with some different reasons, too, on the proposal on exemptions for break-out cars and call-out vehicles. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to take into account disabled people who use the car in situations where most of us can use our legs. There is a significant difference in the imposition of an obligatory charge on the use of heavy duty tyres on these drivers and the imposition of a duty to refresh the same fee. The person with reduced mobility cannot choose to take public transport instead or put the car at the bottom of the ground and walk the rest where rough tyres may have to be lost. The Christian People's Party, together with the Centre Party and the Left, has therefore made its own proposal to amend the legislation on the use of heavy-duty tyres so as to exempt disabled persons with a parking certificate for persons with reduced mobility from the charge for the use of heavy-duty tyres. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that the fee for the use of heavy duty tyres is not intended to be a permanent charging scheme for the provision of income to urban municipalities. The fee is allowed only to get more drivers to drive with non-rigid tyres for environmental reasons. So this is an environmental tax, and the usual principle for such charges is that the polluter should pay the environmental costs, as in this case the use of heavy tyres. The Christian People's Party is concerned that this important principle is not undermined. It is therefore necessary to provide for particularly important considerations before an exemption from the fee requirement can be granted. Such consideration is in our view in the case of disabled drivers. In the case of breakage cars and call-out vehicles, the letter from the Ministry, which is also included in the suspension, states that the Ministry points out that the Stortinget has previously been informed that the scheme could lead to increased costs for public authorities' vehicles which, for various reasons, would use peak tyres in return for payment, cf. Ot. pp. No 13 for 1997-98. There is also reason to add that many of the incubators in Oslo are actually already running smoothly, because they use chains on the wheels. Finally, I would like to refer to the Evening Post, which last week reported that it has been measured more than 10 pst. less suspended particulate matter in the centre of Oslo as far as this month compared to the corresponding time last year. Hopefully, a further reduction will also have a positive effect on health, not least for people with pulmonary and respiratory diseases. I would like to address the proposal from the centre parties, which is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e242	Mr. Kofoed-Larsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e245	The basis for this document no. The 8th proposal to make changes to the elongation tyre charge is based on the majority proposal from the centre parties and the Workers' Party in the autumn to open up the so-called elongation tyre charge for municipalities. The ink was barely dry on the Stortinget proposal before the Right Town Council in Oslo introduced the fee. Yes, I said the Right Town Council, and it was the Right that stood for the introduction of this fee in Oslo. We in the Progress Party were opposed to the introduction, and that fight we will continue. We do not believe in prohibitions and fines, but in awareness-raising campaigns and the carrot principle. What was really bad was that when the department regulation came back, it had no exception for either emergency vehicles, breakers or disabled drivers. The party of progress thought this was bad, and I am pleased to note that the Right Party and the Labour Party are in favour of Document No. The 8-proposal by the Anders Anundsen and myself of the Progress Party. The proposal for these derogations is thereby secured by a majority. But the Progress Party will continue the fight against this levy, for what will it be if we get into the situation that all municipalities see this as a kind of dairy cow? The money from the tip-tops goes to the municipalities, and soon several of them will notice that this is a nice way to skin the drivers. If it is to be such that each municipality can introduce this fee, we poor drivers have to pay 25 kroner each time we cross a new municipal border, and there will be a bit of an obstacle to providing services. In addition to the toll bar, we have all the toll stations, and even more toll stations are putting this hall on continuous bands. So truly I must say that it is a solemn proposal that has been adopted here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e260	Oddvard Nilsen has a speaking time limited to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e263	I expect it to be far, far shorter than that. Let me just, on the right, account for the story. It was true that none of us disagreed that attempts should be made to reduce the suspended particulate matter in Norwegian cities. Right, when this case was up to discussion in Stortinget, we thought that this should be done by changing attitudes and by a voluntary arrangement. Instead, we wanted to reward the drivers who made it to high-quality tyres, for example. See if it was possible to provide compensation for the annual fee. That proposal fell, and the Stortinget adopted the system that we have today. I therefore think it is both right and right that once it has been done, the Storting should also take into account the exceptions that will apply, and that is what we want to discuss here today. In this way the Right has joined this Document No. The 8th proposal. I was a little surprised when I heard the representative Nistad's posts, where he stressed that they would still fight against the scheme that the municipalities have received. But then it would probably make sense if the Progress Party had supported the proposal that the Right Party has in the matter, which actually takes account of it. This has not been done by the Progress Party, but nothing would please the Right more than that the Progress Party would support this proposal, which will remove the present system. Let's stress that it's super important to reduce the level of suspended particulate matter – there's no disagreement about it. But at the same time, I think you should be a little careful about reaping the prize right now. It is true that lower concentrations of particulate matter have been measured in Oslo. It remains to be seen whether it has to do with tipping tyres, or whether it has to do with climatic conditions. I hope and believe that reduced peak tyre use has such an effect, but it remains to be seen. In fact, it will take quite a while before we can do that evaluation. The right believes that it would have been more reasonable to go through a voluntary scheme. I just want to underline what the representative Nistad was about, if it's not necessary to think a little bit through once to what we've basically put up with. Let's take, as a theoretical example, that a heavy-duty tyre charge is imposed in Larvik, in the Drammen and in the Bærum, and there is a disabled person who has to use high-fat tyres. Then he will have to pay 1000 kroner in Larvik, and he will have to pay 25 kroner for each municipal border crossing he makes to Oslo. I don't think we can live with such a scheme in the long term if the municipalities take this opportunity to use all of them. I'm not going to come up with advice, just suggesting that I believe that the system we have today, may need to be changed so that it becomes a national encumbrance for this if you're going to have such a fee first, that that's the way to do it. Without going into detail, I think maybe the Council of State will agree that this can be quite problematic, and it can be quite expensive, especially for disabled people, who feel that they have to have tip decks on their car. You can imagine a lot of trees connecting this oblation to. Finally, I would just like to promote the proposal that the Right Party has in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e278	Oddvard Nilsen has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e281	From a health and environmental point of view, it is important to reduce the use of peak tyres in large cities. When, in 1997, the Storting opened up the possibility of introducing a charging scheme for the use of heavy duty tyres in the defined area, the Centre Party supported this. The reason for the support from the Centre Party was that the peak tyre industry would primarily be reduced on a voluntary basis. The fee scheme would be risked behind the mirror if not enough went over to zero. The goal was at 80 pst. the cars would run smoothly by the year 2002. Although, in many cases, it has been too slow with a turn to zero, the use of rigid tyres has increased year by year. Therefore, the centre party had preferably seen that the introduction of a high-deck charge had been delayed longer than the case is. When the Municipality of Oslo, with the agreement of the Department, has now introduced a heavy-duty tyre charge, it is important to have a system that is both sensible and effective. In many cases, there will be no problem to get on the slippery decks. But under special conditions, the best thing is without a doubt for heavy tyres. For some groups, e.g. incubators and other expressive vehicles, it is decisive to be best protected in all situations. We all expect breakage cars and expressive vehicles to appear anywhere and at any time. There may be very good reasons why these runs are not running smoothly. I am aware that there are some of these vehicles that on a voluntary basis have turned into antifree, something that has worked well. However, it is also clear that with the introduction of a high-deck charge, several drivers on breakage cars and expressive vehicles will see it as a pressure to switch to zero-elevation without drivers wanting to do so themselves. So I see it as natural that the issue of exemption from the peak tyre charge for some groups comes up, and I think that exemption schemes should be part of the system, but in the system introduced in Oslo, there is no exemption scheme. When proposals for exemptions for heavy duty tyres for individual groups are agreed in Stortinget later today, it will mean a conversion of the system shortly after it has been put into effect. I understand the reactions of politicians in Oslo who say that they feel overwhelmed by the Storting. Although there are many arguments for granting exemptions from the peak tyre charge for e.g. breakage cars and expressive vehicles, the Centre Party has however chosen not to support exceptions for these groups at the moment. The check-in fee scheme in Oslo has already been introduced and has worked for some time. It may therefore make sense to implement the scheme without major changes this winter. It is also important to note that it is not prohibited to use high-tight tyres, but that those who use high-tight tyres are subject to a charge. There is, however, a group I believe that as soon as possible there is a reason to grant exemption from the high-deck charge. It's for drivers with disabilities who have the car as the only possible means of entry. These are drivers who are not able to choose the car for the benefit of other means of delivery. We are aware that all exceptions involve some practical problems, but when it applies to a group where the car replaces the walk function, we need to find practical solutions. What is pleasing once Oslo has introduced a heavy tyre charge is that the scheme has been positively received, as questioning may indicate. It is also gratifying that so many have added to non-rigid tyres. I argued that the scheme would be thoroughly evaluated after this winter, and that the entire system of high-deck charges would be terminated when 80 p.m. of the motorists in Oslo is running smoothly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e298	Municipalities have been authorised to introduce the system of charging for the use of high-pressure tyres in order to reduce health, environmental and well-being disadvantages resulting from heavy-duty use. Only Oslo has implemented the scheme. Like other new schemes, there has been some concern at first. But the charging system in Oslo has quickly proved to be a success. I refer here to Opinions survey, published in the Evening Post on 13 December 1999, where over half of Oslo’s population are now in favour of the fee. At the same time, it is now reportedly up to seven out of ten of Oslo's car owners who are running smoothly. It's my belief that this reflects the fact that most people both realize and want the city's environmental problems to be taken seriously. I therefore interpret this as a solid support for the Government's environmental effort in this area, and also as a support for the polluter-pays principle. Before touching on the position of the Committee on Transport, I would like to draw the attention of the Stortinget to the fact that Document No. 8:11 for 1999-2000, which underlies the current state of play, appears to contain a few misunderstandings. These include: it is not correct that there is a charge for the use of peak tyres in several major cities of the country, as only Oslo is currently in place. However, there is a legal basis for the cities that want it. Reference is also made to a study carried out by KNA at the Viking Rescue Service in the winter of 1999, which will show that those using non-rigid winter tyres are more often involved in accidents than those using heavy duty tyres. However, the Viking Rescue Service, in a letter to the Ministry dated 8 December 1999, confirmed that some such reliable investigation has been carried out under their control – only for the Stortingen briefing. The current attitude of the Committee on Transport, if adopted, would, in my view, be a step backwards in the effort to reduce health and well-being disadvantages caused by heavy-duty use. At the request of the Committee of the Regions of the exemption from the charge for call-out vehicles and incubators, the charging scheme will be less suitable as a means of improving the air quality of the larger cities. It may seem unfair that large parts of public vehicles will now be exempted from the fee, while private drivers will have to pay. It is my belief that one of the reasons for the positive attitude of the fee scheme that now exists in the population of Oslo is precisely because the fee obligation also applies to the public. The Ministry will, of course, amend the Regulation in accordance with the decision of the Committee. However, we need to define the terms used by the Committee in its proposal for a decision. With regard to the proposal for exemption from incubators, I would like to point out that the concept of incubators is not defined in laws or regulations as a separate vehicle category. If all vehicles which are used once or more during winter to break roads are to be exempted from the fee obligation, the number of exemptions for this category could be significant. I would also like to stress that most incubators mentioned use chains during the breakage, and that the use of chains is not subject to charge. The number of call-out vehicles is relatively high and only in Oslo represents this at the lower end of 1000 vehicles. In addition, the requirement for approval and registration of call-out vehicles is currently under review, with one possible result, that the number of vehicles given the status of call-out vehicle will increase. I see that the fee mechanism may accidentally turn out for some groups of drivers. First of all, this will apply to disabled people with a special need to drive with heavy tyres, where an annual fee of NOK 1000 is a burdensome cost. The majority want an exemption from disabled persons with a parking card for persons with reduced mobility. It's important for the government that there are those groups that actually need it, who are being exempted. It is not certain that an exemption for those with a parking card will be the fairest. There are, among other things: disabled persons with special-purpose cars who do not have a parking card because they do not need a special parking space but should have been exempted from paying the heavy-duty tyre fee. However, I see that the Committee's proposal is administratively based on an existing system which can be reasonably easily administered and based on a new exemption provision. I would therefore like to submit to the hearing a proposal that the regulation be amended in accordance with the Storting decision. As we can see from what I have said, we need some time to review clarifications of, among other things. vehicle categories, in addition to the legal requirement of a three-month period of consultation. Therefore, the change must apply from the next winter season, as it appears today. However, it will be sought to implement the exemption from the charge on high-duty tyres for disabled vehicles with a parking certificate already during the current season.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e315	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e319	In this case, there has been a lot of talk about spikes and not spikes. The representative Rigmor Kofoed-Larsen took up the health part of the problem. Now there are several doctors who have claimed that the use of non-rigid winter tyres gives more allergy than usual heavy-duty tyres because of the raw rubber mixture in these tyres. I guess this isn't quite figured out yet, and I'm waiting anxiously for the result. These health damage must also be weighed against other ergot allergy catheters. Nor is it entirely clear that the use of rigid tyres results in fewer traffic accidents than heavy tyres, especially when the guide is smooth, wet ice. You also have to pay a price for dusting due to littering sand, and you actually move the problem from winter to spring when this sand is to be washed up, and the usual sweater has been ground down to fine dust. A calculation has also been made to show that only the accumulation of this white-collar winter time and the extension of the season for the spring part of Oslo will be over 30 million. kr. For those who are concerned about the environment, there are now environmentally friendly ovens that you can install in your house, but there is a code that prevents you from doing very much to replace a bad oven with a better one. As far as the Right proposal is concerned, this is supported by the Progress Party, although we are not co-sponsors. However, we are concerned that it should not be perceived that the municipalities are standing without the possibility to oppose the introduction of a heavy-duty tyre charge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e332	It is important to stress that local authorities have been given a permit to charge for heavy duty tyres if they so wish. The four-five largest cities have the opportunity to do so in consultation with the Road Directorate in accordance with the legislation in force. Otherwise, there is a matter to be referred to the Ministry of Transport before it is implemented. With regard to the time limit for the imposition of a fee permit, it is in accordance with the request of the majority of the Grand Duchy of Finland. S. No 273 for 1996-97, where reference was made to the following: ‘The majority are asked by the Ministry to prepare for restrictions on the use of peak tyres from the autumn of 1999, with the possibility of reconsidering the timing of introduction if market developments indicate that one achieves the target of 80 pst. peak-free tyres in the major cities by 2002.’» Of course, what's in that part of the committee comments will be followed up. It is not the case that this fee should be an input form for the municipalities that have introduced it. Once the objective has been achieved, it is assumed that it can be liquidated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e344	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1591]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e358	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and the representative Mikalsen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e367	Document No 8:20, proposals by the representatives of the Grandfathers Eirin Faldet, Oddvard Nilsen and Thore Aksel Nistad on changes in the legislation and age limit for driving with go-kart have received a unanimous recommendation after consideration in the Committee, with the exception of the time perspective for treatment, which has been slightly extended. The Committee is in favour of lowering the age limit for go-kart driving on closed tracks and in halls other than organised motorsports. Furthermore, an overall committee calls for legislation to be laid down for the approval of such tracks and halls and for the amendments to be implemented from 1 June 2000. The Committee stresses that today’s go-cart driving is one of many interests among young people and adults, and the Committee is also concerned with the prevention effect of learning to master go-cart driving before they are released into circulation. The Christian People's Party also welcomes the fact that unorganized youth here is given an opportunity to use energy and forces to master the go-kart, instead of using energy and forces on something negative. Today it is permitted to exercise with go-karts from the age of 10 and to compete from the age of 12 within organised motorsports. For go-kart driving on a commercial basis, there is a lack of legislation and therefore the activity is covered by the general provisions of the Road Traffic Act on the age limit of 18. I recommend the present proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e384	It's with something mixed feeling I'm standing here today to join in and adopt a Document No. Eight proposals that should really be unnecessary for Stortinget to deal with. Today, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has reported to the WTO after the Seattle Ministerial Conference, tomorrow the Prime Minister will explain the serious situation that has arisen between Telenor and Telia, and here we are sitting and discussing a matter of making regulations that allow young people under the age of 18 to drive go-karts in commercial halls and on-roads. This is a matter that could have been settled in the ministry if it had been political will to do so. I say it this way, because I have contacted the Department on several occasions and have given the Department the opportunity to make regulations and change the rules. The current Minister of Transport Dørum received an enquiry from me immediately after he became Minister of Transport. He admitted that he did not know enough about what it was about, but he actually took it upon himself to visit one of the halls that run commercial go-kart rental. The visit was made on December 15, 1997, at 5 p.m. 5:00! Dørum then contacted the Directorate of Roads and asked the Directorate of Roads to look at the regulations, so that it was possible for young people under the age of 18 to drive go-karts in rental halls. Nothing happened. The country was given a new Minister of Transport, although from the same government, and a new request was made to continue the work on drawing up regulations for go-kart driving. The answer that came was that this did not have time for the department to operate, and that at the earliest, something could happen to the regulations during the year 2000. I understand very well that the department has some more important issues to do with, but if it was political will, it would have been possible to make regulations that were similar to those of the other Nordic countries. It was so simple that it was only possible to call Sweden, Finland and Denmark to get this done. But this was clearly a resistance in the department and in the Road Directorate, and therefore Stortinget had to do something. The proposers are not looking to create speed bumps. Proposalers have taken the matter into account because the rules on go-kart driving are unreasonable in relation to age limits. Today, teenagers may drive go-karts if they are members of a motor club, while the unorganised establishment has an age limit of 18 years, and in addition driving licences are required. Young people who have approached me seem to have holes in their heads that those who are members of a motor club can compete at an international level like 15- and 16-year-olds, but not get training in a rental hall, because then they must be 18 years old. In fact, Norway has claimed well internationally, and even a 17-year-old has won Viking Trophy. But it is not the organized youth group that is the reason for the involvement of the proposers. It's the group of young people that the police are concerned about, those who need a challenge in everyday life, who think the engine is interesting, who have nothing to do with in the afternoons and evenings, and who are not members of an organization. We should be committed to providing these young people with a potential for prevention and from which they can learn something. Serious halls have full control over those to drive go-karts. They are given an introductory course in security and the rules applicable on the track or in the hall. Speed is proportionate and safety is ensured. However, the proposers have also seen that there is currently no type of approval of the halls for commercial rental activities. Anyone can start renting a go-kart. There is currently no requirement for ventilation and safety. There should at least be a good reason to carry out the work of the department's regulations. Those who have the best knowledge of this are the specialised associations concerned, which have otherwise established arrangements for the control and approval of motorsport facilities. It is therefore natural for the special associations to be involved in an approval scheme. The specialised associations involved are particularly interested in bringing these activities into controlled forms and are positive in cooperating on approval schemes. This should be noted by the Council of State. The Ministry has pointed out in a letter to the Committee on Transport that accidents have occurred in commercial go-kart activities and that in the view of the Council of State it will be necessary to obtain accident statistics and information from both Norway and other countries. Of course, the rapporteurs fully agree with this. Once the proposers have taken the step of delivering a Document No. Eight proposals for the Stortinget with a requirement for a code for the approval of the halls are to ensure that safety can be ensured at the earliest possible time. Some of the intention of the proposal was to ensure safety and prevention. We know that many young people are occupied with motorized vehicles, and it is important that they get to drive under controlled conditions, and that they get skilled guidance. There are actually accidents in other sports as well, without any indication of a ban. And so the whole proposal is about security, if anyone in this room is in doubt about it. Unfortunately, I have a feeling that there is motorsport that the Department and the Directorate of Roads are opposed to. Hopefully I'm wrong, but all the training on the regulations for commercial go-kart driving gives me a sense that it all boils down to resistance. I am therefore pleased that we are now getting a finish line for this lengthy debate, and I am especially pleased that the department has got something to go after. In fact, it is a unanimous committee that is now in favour of a clear regulation by 1 June 2000. It should be enough time, and the Council of State must follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e412	The government attaches great importance to reducing the number of road traffic injuries and killings. I would like to refer to the government's work on a separate national road safety plan that will be presented in connection with the National Transport Plan in spring 2000. Attention has also been paid to road safety in the design of today's legislation on organised motorsports, which follows from the Motorsports Regulation of 27 July 1989. It has, among other things, it is essential that a derogation from the normal age and driving licence requirements for drivers of motor vehicles should not be at the expense of safety. This assumes that those responsible for motorsport activities have the necessary knowledge and experience to ensure safety in a good and safe manner. Motorsports associations alone have had the necessary competence to perform motorsports for children and young people in a safe and secure manner. I have taken note of the Committee's view that motorsport activities for children and young people in a safe and safe environment can have a preventive effect when they are later on the road. If it is the case that legislation today prevents such preventive effects, this is unfortunate. I am therefore prepared to amend the legislation in accordance with the Committee's decision. However, it has been difficult to establish a clear link between go-kart driving and safe drivers. According to a study carried out by SINTEF in 1992, it appears to be an important prerequisite for achieving a preventive effect of motorsports, that motorsport managers are aware of learning to young people that there is a difference between driving on a closed track and on a general road. However, in the case of commercial rental activities aimed at children, managers may not be able to convey this message over time. For the ministry, motorsport activities that operate do not encourage more speedy play. The importance of road safety will therefore need to be given to the design of legislation for commercial go-kart driving for children and young people, which is not regulated by organised motorsport associations. One of the main challenges will then also be to ensure that the unorganised motor sport activity takes place safely and safely. A proper authorisation system for railways and halls, as proposed by the Committee, could contribute to ensuring safety even in commercial rental services for driving with go-karts. An important part of the work on legislation on commercial go-kart driving will just be to design such an authorisation system, as well as to clarify responsibilities and powers in this context. As regards the time aspect of the implementation of the changes, I have noticed that the Committee proposes that the changes be implemented from 1 June 2000. I am aiming for the amendment to be sent to the hearing as soon as possible, but at the same time I would like to draw attention to the need for important considerations to be taken into account here, as one of the proposers mentioned. In the context of the revision of the Gokart regulations, it is also natural to consider the whole of the Motorsports Regulation, inter alia. with a view to possible harmonisation with the legislation of the other Nordic countries, which the Committee has also requested. The Ministry will of course work to ensure that the deadline is met, but I hope it will be forgiven when I stress that the deadline is reasonably short.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e423	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e426	I would like the Council of State to state from this pulpit that he is interested in harmonising the statutes of Norway with those of the other Nordic countries. I would also like to point out and address some of the comments made by the State Council, namely that there is no evidence that there is a link between go-kart driving, motorised driving for young people, and road accidents. I think the Council of State will have a problem with that. We've actually done a little bit of unofficial statistics. In connection with an engine port capability in Hedmark, radar control was set up and four persons were taken into the check after cancellation. Then the same check was carried out after a football match, and then nine people were taken into radar control. There is no connection between driving motorsports and driving too fast on the roads. Motorsport is a teacher, and there are instructors. Special Associations have instructors to teach young people how to behave both in halls and on courts. But here it is important that the Council of State confirms first and foremost that he wants to make statutes that safeguard security. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e442	I had actually not intended to take the floor in this matter, since it is a unanimous committee that joins this Document No. The 8-proposal, but the Council of State's input made me take the floor. I think this proposal, which is now a unanimous committee behind it, was very problematic by the Council of State. The representative said the fall was that this matter had been difficult, and after the Council of State's statements, one could be left with the impression that this is not going to be easy in the future either. I therefore want a clear clarification from the Right that the date 1 June is fixed and that what a unanimous committee has now asked for will be implemented. It must not be such that the whole issue is challenged, with problems related to the operation in halls and problems related to those engaged in motorsports, possibly by questioning their competence in road safety, etc. I don't think it should have been said.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e450	If the Council of State had left unsaid what he said today, he would have made a significant mistake, namely avoiding his obligation to provide information to Stortinget. It could later be said that this was made as if there was no connection between the different terms I explained in my post, and that it is natural to send out to the hearing in the context. Of course, the Council of State will meet the wishes of the Storting and the demands of the Storting and deal with the date. But the things I pointed out in my post are related. Of course, we should deal with Nordic agreements and Nordic non-discrimination. The consultation round will then determine how we will finally promote this for Stortinget. I think it would also be natural to inform the Storting about these regulations before they are finally established, as the Stortinget has so strongly engaged in the matter. It would be my natural reaction based on Storting's treatment both now and earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e459	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e485	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e492	When the majority in the Inst. S. No 61, the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, reject Document No. 8:5 for 1999-2000 – a proposal by the Landingsrepresentatives Torbjørn Andersen, Vidar Kleppe and Lodve Solholm of the Progress Party to wind up the county as an independent level of administration – is primarily justified by the following: The same proposal was promoted by the same representatives and discussed here in the Grand Duchy about six months ago. Then the proposal was rejected. Now that the same proposal is being put forward again, without any significant new elements in the case, a majority once again believes that it is right that the proposal to close the county council should not be accepted. It is also with reference to Document No. 8:16 for 1999-2000, which we are discussing here today, where the Stortinget asks the Government that the mandate of the Task Distribution Committee should also include an assessment of the number of administrative levels. The minority, the People's Party and the Right, propose that Document No. 8:5 is not rejected, but annexed to the Protocol. The working party will distance itself from many of the things in the document, including: that the general autonomy, governance and legitimacy of the county council are impaired and that the county council should therefore be laid down. Document No 8:16 is a proposal from the representatives of Jan Petersen, Sverre J. Hoddevik and Erna Solberg to extend the mandate of the Task Distribution Committee to include an assessment of the number of administrative levels. As is well known, the Stortinget asked for some time back the Government to consider setting down a wide-ranging sample to carry out a comprehensive review of the division of responsibilities, tasks and functions between the three different levels of government. The Government followed up the decision and set up the Task Distribution Committee, which is now well under way and is due to put forward its call on 30 June next year. There have been many recent developments in the organisation of public administration in this country. The Storting must take it seriously. The mandate of the Task Distribution Committee, as adopted, can be interpreted as meaning that the sample should not look at the number of administrative levels. Therefore, a unanimous committee now believes that it is right that the sample also has a mandate to look at this, while also looking at the division of tasks between administrative levels. The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Right and the SV believe that the sample also needs to consider the issue of larger regions and/or fewer and larger counties, or whether we should continue with today’s organisation. The majority believe that the Storting needs a well-established basis for taking any decisions regarding the organisation of administration in this country. The objective of making changes must be to improve the welfare of citizens. We have to organise ourselves so that we get the most and the best possible services for the population. Any reorganisation must result in increased output of services, while simplifying control, supervision and bureaucracy. Then we have to be willing to discuss both the tasks and the size of the geographical and political units. The majority now want a thorough investigation in which all aspects of public administration and organisation are highlighted. We have lower turnouts in the county elections than in the city and city elections. One of the objectives of any reorganisation must be to increase electoral participation. It is strange that the government parties in the vote do not agree with the majority comments on an inquiry into regions or larger and fewer counties, while the Christian People's Party and the Central Party consider it positive that the Task Distribution Committee is empowered to investigate the number of administrative levels and consequences associated with any reduction. What is perhaps even more eye-catching is that, in a letter to the Committee, the municipal minister wants the Task Distribution Committee to also be mandated to carry out a model without a directly elected regional level — in other words, a bureaucratic level of government without a public elected governing body. It must mean more bureaucracy and less popular governance. It is the most perceptive of a central party council. The examination of such a model has not been accepted by anyone in the Committee, nor by his own party traps.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e528	When I listened to the post of the representative Signe Eye, I thought she was holding a flaming, good speech with good reasoning to put down the county council. What some of us have recorded in recent times is that there has begun to be a sparkle in this room when it relates to the view of the county as a political and administrative unit. When the Right Party and the Advance Party propose to attach Document 8:5 to the Protocol, it is because we have seen that things have begun to happen in the Chamber, not least in connection with the Innst. S. No 62 to Document No 8:16, where one is now willing to give the selection a new mandate. I dare say that it is not so long since this House, against the right and the right of the party, voted in favour of a proposal to extend the mandate to the selection. So things happen. Otherwise, I also notice that Signe Eye, when it comes to what caused us to re-appreciate our proposal, has not noticed the importance of her own parliamentary leader and president of the Labour Party in posts in the Newspaper, where he actually begins to argue that we should view the County as a political and administrative unit. That the representative Eye does not calculate what has happened in half a year, for significant new things, will be charged to the representative Eye's own account. But at least I've noticed it, and that was exactly what was the reason why we're resubmitting this proposal – that is, that we saw Norway's largest party at the parliamentary leader going out so strongly in the newspaper a while after the Stortinge had voted down the proposal we made last year at those times. So that's why. As I said, we've noticed that things are moving, and we're looking forward to the selection's graduation, which is due for summer. One should perhaps not predict too much, and especially not about the future, but in this case similar to some other things that we have had, cf. the debate in Odelstinget on Friday 17 December in the case of Ot. pp. No 70 for 1998-99, on private employment services and hiring out of labour, I do not think it is long before the majority in this Chamber will also support the proposal of the Progress Party when it relates to the future of the county. I would like to address the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e539	Lodve Solholm has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e542	We're experiencing a rapidly changing society, and it's right at times to stop and ask about the schemes that we've developed over a long time, needs to change. According to the Christian People's Party's assessment, there is not so much negative booklet in the county council, as is the real discussion theme today and in the task-sharing committee, as many would claim. But the Christian People's Party is open to take the debate. With so many questions raised, and so much criticism, the Christian People's Party believes that it is not right to refrain from a debate, and then it is important to get a proper basis to conduct this debate. We look forward with excitement to the Task Distribution Selection setting, which will lead to summer, and the assessments that this selection will also provide when it relates to the relationship between the county council and the county council. We hope that this will lead to a transfer of tasks from the county to the county under democratic control. We're also open to evaluate the boundaries between the states. We have learned that there may be a basis for some states to merge where local culture does it naturally, and where tasks are not carried too far away from the inhabitants. We would like to see samples in the cooled water developed by the setting that we will get to summer. Among other things, this debate has become topical due to the health regions, which many think may be a separate starting point for the division of the counties or regions in future Norway, although it is emphasised that this form of organisation should not lead to the introduction of a fourth level of government in the country. According to the Christian People's Party, it is right that both municipalities and states which have been transferred new duties and responsibilities, and which will receive additional administration of them, are given additional rights and increased autonomy to introduce the measures necessary to assume their responsibilities. I believe that the heading of municipalities and county councils must be ‘democracy development’ and its development, that political governance is important at the intersection of the right size and weight in regions and areas and an acceptable proximity to the inhabitants. We will warn against the spheres of civil servants and the development of systems that weaken democracy and transfer power to the public administration. We note today that the debate that I mentioned initially has led to some concern and also made this debate necessary. We therefore support the setting when it applies to Document No. 8:16, which is for debate here now. We believe that a systematic debate on a balanced basis is necessary, and it would like to participate in the Christian People's Party and the government parties. In many ways, there is an exciting process, for Norway is at the forefront of the development of local and regional democracy on a world-wide basis, and many of the schemes that we want to develop become the first ones to implement. That is why it is important to get a basic material to further this debate. The Christian People's Party believes that we can adjust the present system, and that through trial mechanisms and a continuous debate, we will develop a local and regional democracy that will benefit the country as a whole, and not least the many communities that depend on it, and that will experience a strengthening of their situation by strengthening their municipalities and regions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e559	A year and nine months ago, the Stortinget discussed the local democracy statement of the city and regional minister Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad. In this context, the Right proposed that the mandate of the Task Distribution Committee should specify that the number of administrative levels should also be assessed, i.e. the same proposal that has been taken up and promoted as a Document No. Eight proposals from the representatives Sverre J. Hoddevik, Jan Petersen and myself. Although it took one year and nine months, and that it might have been useful for the Task Distribution Committee to have had clarity in the mandate from the beginning of its work, rather than in the final phase to extend its mandate, we are pleased that we are now taking on board the proposal we made at the time. The background to that proposal was precisely that we saw that the developments we have had in the Right, namely a discussion about the number of levels of government, would come in several parties, and that it was good to get a proper basis for discussing it, and that once you had a sample that discussed the distribution of tasks, it should also discuss the question of how many levels of government. Now, when we re-promoted it again in the autumn, it was precisely because we saw that such signals had come, not least after reading Thorbjørn Jagland's double chronicle in Dagbladet, where he made it clear that we had to put a question mark on used performances, including whether one needed a county municipality further. And so we promoted this proposal a few days before we also got the playoff from the committee leader to join the county councils, so that it became fewer – that was suggested to be five county councils. We think it is important that all these ideas that have been up to discussion be widely examined by the sample. That is why we have also wanted it to have a broad mandate, not just what was originally in our draft document, but therefore expanded in view of what is happening in regional states. We see it as natural that one might then also consider the small-state model, which was one of the two alternative models that we as a party also discussed when we had our own investigation related to the question of county municipality. So we've taken our position; we think the county council is superfluous. We believe that other ways of organising the governance of public services – e.g. through the sub-prize funding of the health sector, the acquisition of the largest regional hospitals as state hospitals, and other types of ownership of the others — would make the content of the county municipality too small to make it meaningful to have it as an independent level of administration, and would have its own directly elected bodies to govern the county. We see that solutions have been chosen other than what we wanted, namely state ownership for the majority of the hospital sector, once the health regions are established. Nevertheless, I might already say that it may be a little small just to fill a regional level with health issues, and that if we are to discuss the merger of county councils first, we must also discuss the content of the future regional states. Because it won't be natural, as we see it, necessarily to move the tasks that are currently in the county, to a higher level. We think most of the other tasks that the county has today can actually be decentralised down to the municipalities, and not up to a level that is a larger unit. We are still reasonably convinced that as the discussion progresses, the conclusion will be that we do not necessarily need to have three levels of government. We think it is nice that we get a proper investigation to decide on the questions. We are concerned about one thing in this case, that you take the time you need in the Task Distribution Committee to do this work properly, so that the debate is not at least stopped by the questions being resolved too poorly. We want to get such a good basis for investigation that we can take a real discussion on these issues on a broad political basis. In two days we've had a pass on two right-hand proposals, and we're going to hope that this will continue the rest of this downhill session – at least we're going to be very happy, even if we're in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e576	Once SV has supported this proposal, it is not because we agree with the Right – on the contrary – but to end these annual reprisals, and to get those who work closely with these things to have a reasoned opinion. In our view, the result can be larger or smaller units. However, those who now want to reduce the regional level in Norway are fully aware of what is happening in the rest of Europe. What I think is most worrying about the debate around the county council is that it focuses on the efficient organisation of services, and it is completely lacking the most important perspective, namely democracy. Democracy is a form of governance for fellowship between people. Therefore, strengthening democracy will be the starting point for an assessment of administrative levels. The way in which we organise the levels of government, the authority, the right of initiative and the room for action that we give them must give democracy added value, that is, contribute to the building up of the community and solidarity, and not disintegrate. We cannot manage or streamline ourselves away from societal problems that we strive to find solutions to. The effectiveness of these tasks is a bit more and more demanding than spending the minimum amount of money. Effectiveness is about what is left for money in quantity, in quality and in legitimacy in relation to the choices to be made. Democracy doesn't know so many economies of scale. We can, for example: take a municipality, just to exemplify it. If you're going to use the language of the economy and talk about efficiency, it's going to be in a municipality, for example. There is a loss of efficiency or well-being because school provision will be better than someone they think they will pay for, and worse than what others think they need. In a single municipality, people now have to accept the educational offer given. In politics, it is not this logic that applies; in politics, it is the needs that count. It is not a question of the loss of welfare of individual households, but of the right to the children and the obligations of their parents. So SV believes that there is a wrong approach just to focus on efficiency. Important conditions for democracy are that the population is informed and committed and that it can be mobilised when important values and interests are at stake. Overview, proximity and trust are important characteristics of such a situation — an overview of the society in which a person lives, proximity to institutions making decisions, and confidence in the benefits of engaging. Only under such conditions will it be possible to trigger the initiatives and solidarity needed to meet the real challenges we face. SV imagines a system with a regional level that, as I said, can be both larger and smaller than what we have today, but it should be a level that has tax rights, and it should have more power delegated by the central authorities. This could be done, for example, by: have more transport-related tasks, more hospital, university, higher education, environmental and industrial policy tasks. We're talking about tasks that we think are best handled by the people of the region, which can best make the decisions. They know how the shoe prints, and they know how to handle it. There must be specific circumstances in which decisions should not be taken at regional or local level. Such a transfer of power to regions will mean a weakening of the national decision-making level, less power to national bureaucrats and to the Storting, but it also opens up opportunities for both of whom I believe we need. National authorities can focus more on the big things, more on what kind of Norway we want, and more on Norway's relationship with the environment than they do today. So SV votes for the proposal today, but has a completely different starting point than the others. And once again, I ask that a special consideration be given to the perspective of democracy when you look at how to organise society, because that is what is the most important thing to bear in mind when looking at this, and not at a purely business-economy model. Then we can rationalize local politics, and then democracy goes away at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e591	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e599	The cancellation goes to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e605	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the WTO following the Seattle Ministerial Conference be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e612	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Ursula Evje, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 2 and 3 from Ursula Evje on behalf of the Party of Progress There will be a vote on the motions for resolutions first. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a case with proposals for an alternative higher education funding system, where the money follows the student.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The budget asks the Government to amend the rules on fees grant to cover 80 pst. of the school fees of studies abroad.’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e642	An alternative between the I and proposal number is then added. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal of the Progress Party and the Right reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to prepare an assessment of the overall need for newly trained doctors over the next 15-20 years and to propose the necessary measures to increase the capacity of the Norwegian educational institutions.’;
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e681	The vote will take place on the proposal from the Ursula Evje representative, on behalf of the Party for Progress, sent by the Odelstinget meeting on 14 December 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote proposals for new legislation to make approved private schools equal to public schools when financing investments. The approved private schools shall not come out less economically than public schools.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e697	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by the representative of Inge Wohnung on behalf of the Right, transmitted from the meeting of the Odel Stingen on 14 December 1999: ‘The budget asks the Government to facilitate an increase in the rate of grants for private schools from 85 to 90 pst. in connection with the 2001 State budget’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e714	During the debate Thore Aksel Nistad put forward the following proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right: ‘The Government asks the Government to sell Bane Tele’s shares once the reorganisation of a limited liability company has been carried out.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e945	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Rigmor Kofoed-Larsen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and Left Proposal No. 2, from Oddvard Nilsen on behalf of the Right There is a vote on the proposal from the Right and then, alternatively, between the vote and the proposal from the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e957	President! Could I ask that the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left be voted on separately and that it not be set against the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e964	It has to be possible to do that. Then we first raise to voting proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to abolish the possibility for municipalities to charge fees for the use of high-pressure tyres.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e982	Proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary amendments to the legislation on the use of tipping tyres so that disabled persons with a parking certificate for persons with reduced mobility are exempted from the charge for the use of tipping tyres.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20-2.ana.ud434e1033	During the debate, Mr Solholm, on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Right, put forward the following proposals:
