ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e33	The representatives of Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, Mimmi Beevi and Kari Økland, who have been on leave, have once again taken their seats. The representative of Gunnar Kvassheim is applying for welfare leave on 25 and 26 March. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Inger Eikesdal, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e71	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be allocated as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other party groups 5 minutes each. Speakers who, if they wish, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President will also add that the speech time regulation means that no lines are allowed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e80	The future of our three large sailing ships, «Christian Radich», «Southern» and «Statsraad Lehmkuhl», all engaged, also outside this hall. Anyone who has once seen these shots when they come for full sail, takes part in an international regatta or enters the port, never forgets it. Nor do I believe that those who have received their training in seafarers on board these ships will ever forget what they have learned there. The fear when they stand at the bottom and look up to rigging and horror, the challenge, the eardrums in their stomachs and then the jubilant sense of mastery, which they have realized when they have overcome fear and gone up; the companionship, the community on board, the social development that is absolutely necessary for life on a sailing ship – here they have acquired qualities and lessons that cannot be learned anywhere else and that benefit in any job context. The first ship was purchased to act as a school ship at a time when shipping was changing, in the transition between sail and steam, and the others have arrived later. When you chose to bet on sailing ships, it wasn't because you thought motorized shipping was a passing phenomenon. On the contrary, one wanted to ensure the special skill needed to carry a large sail bulkhead. This competence is described as being of national cultural historical value, just as the shooting itself is. It is now both a question of maintaining competence and of maintaining the launches. In the conversion of maritime education and the introduction of Reform 94, ships were taken out of the training chain. The increased theoretical requirements related to maritime education added to the need for shore-based training facilities that ships were no longer involved as the training venue for the modern seafarer. This did not result in a radical change in the operational basis for these ships. Already after a few years, the loss of competence is noticeable. The foundations behind the «Southern» and «Statsraad Lehmkuhl» have for several years compensated schoolship operations for commercial operations in parts of the year, while «Christian Radich» has been in use as a schoolship until now. However, common to all three is that they do not now have schoolship operations to rely on in the future and that they have major problems in keeping these ships operational on a commercial basis throughout the year. This strengthens our loss of competence, because shots that cannot offer hire throughout the year lose in the competition for seafarers. We already have a situation where you are totally dependent on picking up a sailing crew from Denmark and the Netherlands to keep the ships under sail. It is therefore urgent to adopt decisions to ensure future operations, as only this will allow the competence to be maintained and continued in Norway as well. We're talking about a competence that a joint committee calls being of national cultural historical value. The sailing ships are owned by independent private foundations. They have never been the property of the state – and we should be happy about that, because if the state had the ownership responsibility, it is more than doubt that the ships would have been under the Norwegian flag and under the sail. There are private fires that have rocked the ships through previous crises, although the majority of the country has contributed well in recent years both through direct maintenance grants and through operating grants in the use of school ships. It is worth noting that the ownership does not ask the State to assume neither ownership nor total liability. This is a shared responsibility for ensuring the future operation and maintenance of ships. It is also worth noting that even if the setting is split, the decision proposals are so similar that it would be right to say that there is an overall committee asking the Government to discuss the future of the sailing ships and then come back to Stortinget with the matter. The Committee's minority has pointed to the unique possibility offered by sailing ships to provide alternative training for many of those who, for some reason, need a school break. It's not that it's just problem youth that needs alternative offers to the A4 school. Good young people who need a break, who don't know what they're going to be, need something developing to come back and choose an education path. A period of sailing ships will give them this opportunity. Although school is not our responsibility, it is our responsibility to make sure that there is a ripening room and the action arena also for healthy young people who do not come out in A4 format. It is not just criminals and drug addicts who are entitled to offers outside the ordinary school. I am promoting the proposals of the minority and hope that the debate will show that the future use of the shots as an offer to young people will be supported by the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e97	Inger Stolt-Nielsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e100	We have three old sailboats left in Norway today, the former schools «Christian Radich», «Statsraad Lehmkuhl» and «Southern Land». They're all three in a bad constitution, and it'll cost about. Eighty million. to enable them to be properly conditioned. It is the same problem that traditional museums face: means of maintenance and operation. These ships are not museums in the traditional sense, but they are definitely part of our cultural heritage that deserves to be preserved. However, the ships should be preserved as museums on land – i.e. land at a dock in Bergen, Oslo or Kristiansand – or shall they be allowed to continue to sail and be ambassadors to Norway as a shipping nation? The idea has been that ships should have a value in addition to being a museum for shipping in Norway. It is a prerequisite that crews are available to maintain and operate these shooters, and it is important to maintain Norwegian competence related to the sailing shooters. Private individuals have long taken a heavy responsibility for the boats, and the school ships charge a lot of money for private purposes. The government should now present a proposal that will make it clear who will be the primary responsibility of our sailors in the future. The state has already assumed a high level of responsibility and commitment to cooperation in the field of operation, and schools receive a large amount of funding each year from the State budget. The Workers' Party supports the proposal that, after discussion with the three foundations of the school ships, the Government should make proposals to the Stortinget for future operations and maintenance. Many work for cultural protection in relation to buildings and sites in Urban and Building Norway. National parks, wildlife and wildlife are established to be protected and protected. Now, fortunately, it is the coastal culture and the protection of vessels that are focused. What is important in this matter is that there is a common desire for our school ships to be maintained and their operation ensured.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e111	The future of the three Norwegian sailing ships «Southern», «Christian Radich» and «Statsraad Lehmkuhl» is relatively uncertain – so uncertain that the Progress Party wishes to contribute to the future of Norway’s maritime nation being able to have these ships in good and functional condition. Ships have great value as sources of knowledge of the past. They tell about business structure, working life and social conditions. The ships are also technically-historical source complexes of great value. Although they are all built as schoolships, they are also built in shipbuilding environments where sailing traditions were still alive. Ships have significant identity-creating value — both for the seafarer’s level and for Norway as a nation. But unfortunately, the shots are capital-intensive to keep in sailing order. It is therefore necessary to have self-employment through operation. To cope with this, operations with relatively long sailing seasons are required. In addition to continuously complying with the requirements of the Ship Control, it has been assessed that it is also necessary to be classed for international voyages. The progress party agrees that it is difficult today, perhaps even impossible to keep these ships in normal, profitable operation. Maintenance costs are significant but absolute. The fact that you do not have a full season also makes it difficult to keep the key staff throughout the year, because they have to be permitted in the low season for economic reasons. This, of course, leads to problems in maintaining the competence to keep ships in full operation. This, of course, has also contributed to the difficulty of keeping ships with Norwegian crew. Initially, ships were acquired as school ships during a transitional period between sail and steam, in order to retain knowledge of sailing ships. The party of progress looks with great joy at the very significant effort of a non-profit character that lies behind the operation of these ships today. But we register that the foundations unfortunately, for understandable reasons, do not have the opportunity to take full responsibility for this. Therefore, the Progress Party requests that the State be conscious of its responsibilities and takes care of the maintenance costs and operations of the ships. The alternative to contributing to this is, of course, to say no and rather leave them lying quietly and decaying. However, for a mariner nation such as Norway, it will not be to take our tradition and honour seriously — nor to take seriously those who have sacrificed themselves to make Norway a nation of importance. The Norwegian Seafarer nation also has a responsibility today for all the young people who want to spend their time in education in this way, by being on one of these ships for a period of time. The three ships have a total student capacity of 288. These are usually young people between the ages of 16 and 18 who, for different reasons, want this type of training. We should be happy and take care of this unique training opportunity. That is why I hope that document No. Eight proposals are taken seriously and concurred. I would ask that the joint motion by the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats should not be opposed to the Committee's proposals, but that we should be able to vote in favour of this if the Progress Party and the Right's proposals fall.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e132	Inner. S. No 92 for 1998-99 reflects the broad consensus of the Grand Duchy on the need to preserve the ‘Christian Radich’, ‘Southern’ and ‘Statsraad Lehmkuhl’ seals for posterity. There has often been a reference to the special value of these shots as cultural-historical klenodies. Linked to the historical development of an important economic and professional tradition in this country, maritime, they also have an identity-creating value for Norway as a nation — in other words, they are part of our national pride. This means that it is important to preserve as far as possible these original shots, both as regards the use of materials, structures and details, as detailed in the guidelines developed for the maintenance and restoration of Norwegian museum development in cooperation with the three foundations. In a letter to the Ministry of Culture, Norwegian Museums has pointed out the difficult balance between the consideration of satisfactory preservation of original material and the desire to continue today's use of the shots, where demands are made, among other things. to the passenger certificate and fire safety. The pathways and the tradition around them convey not least important and useful knowledge of the industrial structure, working life and social conditions of the past in Norway. It is therefore important not only to take care of the shells themselves as technical cultural memories, but also the competence and, as far as possible, the professional traditions associated with the use of the shells. Several have pointed to this, and it is also underlined in the setting. The Christian People's Party will therefore stress that the State of the Ministry of Culture has an important co-responsibility, both on the operational and maintenance side, in order to preserve the cultural values associated with the sailing shells for the posterity. I also refer to the important work done by the Norwegian museum development in cooperation with the three foundations on maintenance and restoration guidelines. The Ministry points out in a letter to the Committee dated 3 February 1999 that it may be difficult to delineate expenditure having a conservation character from other measures. Today, the three grievances receive an annual operating grant from the State. At the same time, Stortinget has decided to grant money to maintenance funds, with a framework of approximately 15 million. kr for distribution on the three shots. Any increase in grants is an issue that needs to be assessed in budgetary terms and seen in relation to the other items on the cultural budget, as the Ministry also points out in its letter. The Christian People's Party will take a closer look at the needs outlined in meeting the significant maintenance tasks that follow, among other things. by public order. However, we believe it is necessary to maintain as a fundamental principle that only the expenditure attributable to the conservation of ships and knowledge can be charged to grants above the Ministry of Culture's budget, while expenditure on school and charter operations is assumed to be otherwise financed, cf. the previously mentioned letter from the Ministry of Culture. The Christian People’s Party will attend a case in Stortinget in the light of a discussion between the Government and the foundations concerned on the future operation and maintenance of the ‘Christian Radich’, ‘Statsraad Lehmkuhl’ and ‘Southern Land’. Only when such a case is available, the Stortinge will be able to further clarify the state's responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e147	There is no doubt that the sailors have great value, not least because of their knowledge of the past. They tell about business, work and social relationships. Even if they're all built as a schoolship, they're also built in an environment where sailing traditions were still alive. In many ways, therefore, tajaya is representative of the technical solutions that were common at the end of the sailing season. Besides, the shots have a pedagogical value that few other cultural memories can paint with. Not only are the shots both versatile and large, which make them very valuable in this context, they also make it very possible to interact with learning. Through participation in work processes, students gain both historical insight and experience. Such an active learning process is not only possible but also necessary if you are to understand the shooting as a cultural memory, with its own characteristics. Nor is there any doubt that the shooters are involved in a renewed insight into both seafaring and craftsmanship practice. The three grievances, however, have great aesthetic values. Most people see them as beautiful in themselves. In addition, the shoots act as environmental elements over a large geographical area by being mobile. There's also a lot of doubt that all three of the tachyasy are protective cultural memories. Slides have several important functions. It is important to maintain ships through operations in order to be able to maintain certificates and the knowledgeable professionals. In addition, the shooters will also represent Norway abroad, which they have done in a worthy way. They have our fine ambassadors for the country. In addition, boats are a very fine therapeutic measure for young people who want to try life at sea – as a schoolship. There was a nice relationship on board, where the young learned to live closely together, with common tasks. A few years ago there were over a thousand seekers to seventy places. Some thousand young droplets each year out of school for different reasons. Here some of them can get an option. Over the years, more than 20,000 elephants have sprung up on these boats. Even the Royal Ship has our crew with young people from here. This has in the past also been used as a seamanship advance for the Marine. We also know that those who will later take maritime education should try early to see if they can get to sea, whether they can live closely together and tolerate the sea. There may also be reason to consider whether the schoolships should be incorporated into the public spheres in the future after the scheme used there. Now it is difficult with qualified crews on these boats. There are few in time that know old sailing boats, and it is therefore important to take care of basic knowledge. Now you have to pick up a team from Denmark, Sweden and the Netherlands. It is also important to note that the state now has committed cooperation with the three sailing ships, through a regular annual service across different departments. The plural proposal in the setting, where Stortinget asks the Government to discuss the future operation and maintenance of the sailing ships with the respective stipulations and then bring the matter before Stortinget, gives reason to believe that the sailing ship will have a safer basis in the future. This will also allow several departments to make recordings just to get a safe and good solution for the future of these ships. I look forward to getting this back to Stortinget for further discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e168	Norway has a proud history as a maritime nation. Our three large sailing ships, «Southern», «Statsraad Lehmkuhl» and «Christian Radich», help to preserve important knowledge and traditions in the maritime nation of Norway. The sailing ship is also important when it concerns the recruitment of the shipping industry, a recruitment that is absolutely necessary if we want Norway to continue to be a leading maritime nation. We have a lot of problems to deal with today. Commercial operations do not provide an economic basis to cope with maintenance costs. It is also increasingly difficult to hold qualified personnel when the ship has a period of operation of five months per year. The special knowledge and skills associated with the maintenance and operation of sailing ships are at risk of disappearing. The three sailing ships have a total student capacity of 288 elephants per year. For years many young people have gained experience in cooperation, practical learning about mariner art, and experiences for life from sailing toks over much of the world. The evaluation of Reform 94 shows, among others: at 16.2 pst. by students who started further education in the autumn of 1994, drop out of school after the first year for different reasons, cf. NIFU Report 18/98. The left clearly sees the benefits of greater breadth and lack of education. We see that the sailing ship can offer elephants that can be school tired, a completely different learning based on close social companionship, positive experiences and learning practical skills. The matter today is how soon the Government will submit a proposal to the Stortinge to ensure the continued operation of the sailing ship. There should be a broad agreement that Norway should take care of our sailing traditions. If we are to have a long-term solution to secure the operation and maintenance of sailing ships, ensuring recruitment and further competence in Norway, the Government should discuss the future operation with the respective stipulations and then bring the matter before the Storting. Left wants the Government to look at different models of how the sailing ship can find a natural and useful place within the educational system. We see that the ship can offer parts of the education at the further education level, or that the sailing ship can get a system such as public high school. We are open to other schemes being relevant, but the important thing is that we have a long-term solution that ensures the operation of ships and provides young people with valuable training.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e181	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e184	I have to say it's a big day today. It is a great day for policymakers to take account of the inter-political views expressed in this discussion and the debate on the preservation of the three sailing ships we have in Norway. The sailing ships are part of our identity. We're a maritime nation, and we have historic roots back in a maritime nation over 150 years. When we look at the unique treasure we have in the three sailing ships, I think it is a pleasure that the Workers' Party represented here today at Moland, the Right represented by Stolt-Nielsen, the Christian People's Party represented at Lånke, the Center Party represented at Aarrestad and the Left represented at Vihovde, have really gone into this matter so thoroughly. They're all interested in preserving the tradition we've had in these sailing ships. What we end up with today is quite historic when you look at the work that the foundations have done through the time they have existed, through the time they have spent getting resources and resources for necessary maintenance and keeping these ships operational. I'm not going to go so much into the history of sailing ships, but what I'm concerned about further is the question: how long do the different departments need, and how long does the Council of State need to find a solution that will give us a permanent arrangement on this issue as soon as possible? I see that the social minister is sitting in the hall, maybe she can say something about it. It is not that these foundations need social support and help, but they need clarification on the basis of the majority in the United Kingdom today, through their speeches and through the position on the table. I hope it's possible to clarify this, so that the foundations now get the necessary calm about this, so that they continue to coordinate the operation between the three different foundations and the three different ships. I am proud and satisfied with the setting that is in place today, and I hope that the work will continue in the future. With the maritime traditions that we have in Norway, there should be no need for the Storting to take this seriously, and for the Government to follow this up as soon as possible in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e196	Those of us who have a relationship with the sea and Norwegian traditions as a seafaring nation have, as Vidar Kleppe said, a good day today. I say this despite the fact that the committee's recommendation is somewhat less binding than the minority's proposals, represented by the Right and the Advance Party. Nevertheless, all members of the Committee consider it culturally important to maintain Norwegian maritime competence related to sailing ships. Therefore, it is necessary to take the steps necessary to preserve our old reverential sailing ships for the posterity. In this regard, it is a significant point that future relatives can also be shown how the ships were driven and operated. In the modern merchant fleet there are several key positions that disappear, while we still have them in the sailing ships. Not least the traditional knowledge of the use of ropes is in the process of disappearing. Another problem that needs to be taken seriously is that recruiting qualified personnel in the spring is becoming increasingly difficult for only five months. Our day's requirements for certification and other requirements from the authorities indicate that ships are increasingly manned on a continuous basis, and it becomes increasingly difficult to find qualified sailors, because it has to be realized that it is operated within a rather narrow niche. Another good point in addition to the purely maintenance-related for all-year operations is the possibility of offering school-based provision to young people who need a break. These are young people who are looking for activity and excitement, and then they get an offer that develops both social intelligence, team spirit and the ability to take responsibility for themselves and for others. Here the students are given the opportunity to live together on banners, they learn cooperation, they learn to show consideration, they go on guard, they get duties, they learn order and discipline. Let us therefore hope that further treatment will lead to funding that will provide more complete maintenance and that sailing ships can be maintained in continuous operation – in other words, on an annual basis. It is not only the cities of Kristiansand, Bergen and Oslo that are reference cities for the «Southern», «Statsraad Lehmkuhl» and «Christian Radich» that have a good day today. It applies equally fully to the rest of the sailing-interested Norway with the sense of this kind of cultural value.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e207	We can unquestionably conclude that the three ghastly sailing ships «Christian Radich», «Statsraad Lehmkuhl» and «South Africa» are valuable and living cultural memories. Both individually and collectively are the important testimonies of the dangerous times of the Norwegian maritime nation. It is undoubtedly a state cultural protection task to help keep these shots in claim in a proper way. This is the self-evident background for the three sailing ships to receive annual support for operations and maintenance of the Ministry of Culture budget. In 1999, this totals nearly 8.5 million. kr. In addition, the budget for 1996 and 1997 accounted for a total of 10.5 million. kr for separate maintenance measures. These permissions are now almost exhausted. The Ministry of Culture has concluded that the responsibility of this department in the first row must be linked to the operational and maintenance costs necessary to secure the three shots as a technical cultural memory. Operation and maintenance of the Ministry of Culture budget is managed by the Norwegian Museum Development, which, in cooperation with the three Foundations, has developed guidelines for maintenance and protection. From the side of the Norwegian museum development, it is underlined that there are several professional dilemmas associated with the repair work. The several original components that will be replaced, and the more extensive upgrades to set the classification requirement from the Maritime Directorate, the smaller the number will be by the authentic shot. However, the Norwegian Museum Development has, in an interview with the Ministry of Culture, expressed support for the operating model proposed in Document No. 8:122 for 1997-98. The model with six months of schooling, one month of maintenance and five months of charter will, after Norwegian museum development, be evaluated. ‘could make meaningful use of the launches throughout the year, while providing for the possibility of maintaining self-financing through operation’. I am here today as a substitute for the Minister of Culture. I'm going to take with me the commitment that has now come to expression in the hall. Let me also assure the Council that, by referring to the current situation, the Ministry of Culture will follow up this matter through consultations with the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research and Norwegian Museum Development and discussions with the three Foundations – and then report back to the Council through the budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e227	Like my co-representatives, I am also very pleased with the general excitement about this important matter here in Stortinget. There are three great shots of great national importance. As an Oslo representative, I would like to stay a little bit at the "Christian Radich". What I'm thinking about is this that the representative Kleppe emphasised earlier today about the time aspect of dealing with this matter. “Christian Radich” is currently in Drammen for extensive repairs. It's about repairs in the order of $30 million. kr. There has been a considerable self-esteem from ‘Christian Radich’s good friends to initiate this repair, and considerable funds are being provided, but there is no financial target. ‘Christian Radich’ is in a situation where help is needed as soon as possible — including from the public. The only little worm in the beggar on a day like this is the time aspect. Now the minister made it clear that you want to take a positive look at this case and that you will come back as soon as possible. That's exactly what I want to follow up, and I want to stress that you have to make sure that this is really done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e238	As rapporteur for this matter, it is nice to note that all the representatives who have spoken have filled in with views and situation descriptions from the shootings, which unfortunately I did not get time for in my first post. I asked for support for the shooting to be assessed as being also used as an alternative arena for schoolchildren. And I am very pleased that those who have an alternative position – those who make up the majority in this case – have voiced the importance of the use of shots in this context. I expect – after hearing the statements of the Minister of Social Affairs, where this was also highlighted – that this will be thoroughly assessed, and I look forward to this matter coming back to the Stortinget. For the future of the shooters is not decided today, it is decided when the government has had discussions with the foundations, and when one has found solutions that oblige the state on a longer-term basis. When we have national cultural memories like these and we talk about safeguarding a national competence, an independent nation cannot leave competence maintenance to Denmark. We must be able to maintain this competence ourselves. This can only be done by the launch of the shots in a way that allows the hire of seafarers — and the holding of seafarers — on these shots for more than five months at a time. Scouts shall not lie at berth. These shots have never been meant as museums. They shall not be museums; they shall be live shots under full sail, under Norwegian flag, with Norwegian crew. That must be our goal. I look forward to this matter being dealt with decisively by the Stortinget, and I hope it will come quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e251	I was unable to dare to take the floor when I saw one by one from the Progress Party going up to mark its support for the minority's proposal, which will oblige the state to spend money on culture – it has yet again not discussed future operations and maintenance with the respective foundations and set out a plan for how it should be done in the future. In the budget, the Progress Party is raging culture, and with the limited resources available today, not least as a result of the last two years' cut in the cultural budget, with the participation of the Progress Party in the majority, it must nevertheless commit itself to using the State's money. The point is that the Progress Party, having a majority with the central government, has a unique opportunity to take its own initiative in this matter and to resolve it, not least through an increase in the framework of the cultural budget. And we hope the Advance Party uses that opportunity at the next crossroads. Even some of the members of the Progress Party were now able to express disappointment that the Labour Party and the majority were not more committed. Let me remind you that the reason is that the majority takes the foundations seriously and will go into a project to discuss future operations and maintenance before we begin to commit ourselves to the use of taxpayers' money. We want to be sure that we know what we'll do when that day comes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e258	I am not at all provoked by the fact that a representative from the Workers' Party has now tried to pay attention to it. What we in the Progress Party have stressed in this major, important cultural matter is what Liv Marit Moland of the Workers' Party has said. Speakers from the Progress Party have even praised the Workers' Party for having contributed positively to this matter, so that we can get a permanent arrangement as soon as possible for these three sailing ambassadors that we have. We in the Progress Party are concerned with culture, and we are, as I have said before, perhaps the party that is most concerned with the good cultural values on which the nation of Norway has built and is to build. We in the Progress Party realise and recognize that it is important to use resources and resources on culture. But it is clear that with the tight budgets that we are all facing, it must be given priority, and we have given priority here. In the case of both ‘State Council Lehmkuhl’, ‘Southern’ and ‘Christian Radich’, we know historically that during their life at sea they have been being sold abroad. Fortunately, this has been prevented by foundations and individuals who have entered and taken this seriously. And considering the age of these three sailors, they're among the highest in the world in beauty. That is what we in the Progress Party take seriously, and therefore we are pleased that the Minister of Social Affairs, on behalf of the Minister of Culture, has now stressed and argued that this matter of budgetary treatment and follow-up – to stick to the maritime language – should go too far in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e265	It's not that easy to ask for a final article in this debate, because it's going on, it looks like. I must say I was very pleased with the post that Liv Marit Moland made, where she expressed the Workers' Party's support for a future division of responsibilities between foundations and state. I believe that the representative Alstad, with his contribution now focusing on the cultural budget, suddenly turns this into a debate on whether or not the Government is going to take action to secure the future of the ships. We cannot go back to last year's budget to assess it, for the future operating and maintenance costs of these shoots can be distributed over more budget chapters than this committee has. You have to be open to that in this debate. There are many possibilities for financial grants from different departments, and this is what the Government is going to investigate and come back to the Stortinget. Now there is a very small difference between the majority's proposal for a decision and the minority's proposal in this case. The essence of both proposals is that the government will discuss the future of the shooters with the foundations and then come back to the Storting with the matter, and that is the most important thing. However, in addition to this, the Right Party and the Progressive Party want the Stortinget to be presented with a long-term commitment when the Government has completed its discussions. The aim of a conversation must be to arrive at safe framework conditions in the longer term for these shootings. And then we talk about, as I said, subsidies from several departments, and I look forward to coming back to the Stortinget with such a proposal. I therefore hope that the uncertainty that Alstad has created is not as real as it might sound. But in any case, it is not the Labour Party who is in government now, it is not the Labour Party Government who is going to discuss this, so I am well against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e274	Just for Stolt-Nielsen first. She has to listen a little bit to what I'm trying to say, because what I took up in my post, didn't apply to the future of the sailors, because there's a very clear view of the majority as well. My point was to focus on what I experience as the dual morality of the Advance Party in such a context. They stress that you are concerned about culture – I understand that when you see where the individual representatives come from. Vidar Kleppe stressed the need to spend money on culture, but that a tight framework makes it necessary to do something about it in the context of the budget. A big question I'm left with is whether there's a shift in the cultural policy of the Progress Party, whether it's also legitimate to spend money on culture from the far right. Then, by later crossroads, we could get rid of the discussion we've been having in recent years about the legitimacy of spending the state's money on culture. There has been a clear view of the majority in the years that have passed. The progress party has tried to oppose, but I realize that there is a development within the Progress Party at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e279	I am not going to accuse the representative Alstad of being particularly well immigrated in the programme of the Progress Party in the field of cultural policy, or in the positions we have taken here in the Stortinget earlier. It is clear that within the cultural field, like all other areas, there are some issues that are better than others, and the resources are, of course, limited. What's one of the points here is that this is a national problem. Fortunately, there is a broad consensus in this Chamber. Furthermore, it is not least important to stress the considerable self-sufficiency that has been carried out on behalf of these three sailors over several decades. This is not a project that is solely dependent on government crutches. It is an ideal project in many ways, in the sense that here there is an interaction between private efforts, county and municipal efforts, and state efforts. What has been emphasised here earlier today, which is so important, and which is positive that there is general excitement in this Chamber, is that there now appears to be a permanent solution that can ensure these important national cultural taxes for Norway in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e288	So the debate is on case No. 1 a.m. [[Fotation, see page 2410]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e304	After nearly ten years of continuous focus on unworthy matters in the care of the elderly, especially the care of our institutions, I honestly hoped that in 1999 it would be unnecessary to hold a debate like this in the Stortinget. The present report from the specialist nurse Wenche Malmedal, which is the starting point for this interpellation, was for me, and well for most of us, quite shocking reading. Extra resource transfer to care for the elderly from Stortinget started in 1989-90 with the older billion. Later, there has been an increase in municipal elderly care up to now. In 1997, the Stortinget took decisions on the elderly package, and in 1995-96, care regulations were passed from the department to the nursing homes, with instructions to ensure that users were provided with their basic human needs on a daily basis. Although there are many honourable exceptions, there still seems to be considerable unworthy conditions in our institutional care. The findings of Malmedal's report are made at only three public hospitals. The unworthy facts that have been revealed cannot, of course, be generalised, but unfortunately a supervisory report from the district doctor in Oslo, as presented in the daily newspaper on 20 January of this year, confirms significant offences and abuses by 15 of Oslo’s nursing homes, which have been supervised in the years 1997 and 1998. An overall supervisory report from the county doctors in all counties also reveals significant offences and complaints in different areas of public care for the elderly. While there may be considerable variation in care and care in our public care institutions, we need to take seriously the negative conditions that have been identified, both by Wenche Malmedal and in the supervisory reports of county doctors. The most serious thing in Malmedal's report is, as I see it, the statements of the interviewed caregivers, that their way of survival in their job situation was to distance themselves from the patients and discredit the human dignity of the patients. Can we imagine the thoughts and feelings of the elderly nurses in such an environment? The elderly also have a self-esteem and a quality of life. Of course, those who have their mind and mind in mind will daily feel the attitude described in the report, that they are considered as things and not as people. The elderly must feel that they are a burden to society and to their own carers. I ask myself questions about the statements made by the nursing staff in the Malmedal report that frequent deaths in the nursing homes should contribute to low morale among the employees. I ask, where has the nursing pioneer Cathinka Guldberg’s care become among our health professionals? It is not possible in this brief article to address the individual abuses described in the report. So I just have to comment briefly on a couple of issues – first of all, the exercise of physical violence against sentenities. The care of senileements – with tardiness and threatening behaviour – can be extremely demanding, but I would add that the use of force and coercion against these patients does not reduce aggression, rather on the contrary. According to the report, caregivers report that they lack legal regulation for the use of coercion against this group. My comment in this context is that the coercion is not reduced if it is regulated. I have no faith in the use of coercion for behavioral change in the Senate. Such coercion will I regard as an assault, and I take a distance from it. Overmedication and mismedication are another aspect described in the Malmedal report and in the supervisory reports of the county doctors. One must look into the fact that both over-medication and mismedication in public hospitals can lead to many premature deaths. In particular, I think it's bad that we have a lot of psychopharmacies in Norwegian nursing homes, the medicine that sleeps patients and reduces their quality of life and life. In the case of mismedication, this should be rectified by a better medical routine in the individual hospital and by making the caretaker more than hitherto personally responsible for the medication of the patients. Another aspect identified in the report is the lack of supply of fluid and food to patients. It is quite unacceptable, in my opinion, that there is not enough control of the fluid intake and food intake for the individual resident in our public health home, which results in that approx. 50 pst. by Norwegian health care providers at all times are extremely undernourished and dehydrated. Poor fluid balance is dangerous and life-threatening for the individual. Such a simple procedure to control malnutrition as weekly patient weighing is carried out very little by public hospitals, and one really has to ask why. Another problem that leads to mis-nutrition and malnutrition in older health care providers is poor dental status and oral hygiene, a problem that is also not followed up well enough in our public hospitals, although the dental treatment of the elderly in public institutions is actually free of charge. Overseeing Dr. with. Thomas Bohemia at Aker Hospital has been researching malnutrition in public institutions for very many years and has shown that up to 50 pst. of the hospital beds suffering from extreme malnutrition and malnutrition of a serious nature, leading to an excess of mortality, long hospital stays and a strong increase in bone brittleness. Extreme malnutrition resulting in death is not recorded and diagnosed as a cause of death in Norwegian nursing homes. In 1997, a post-mortem study was conducted in Oslo by patients who had died in a nursing home, and no one had the diagnosis of malnutrition, even if 25 pst. of which the studies had a body weight of less than 40 kg. What can be done about the conditions described in the Malmedal report? I take it without further ado as a matter of course that we are all concerned that the conditions described cannot continue. I have made the following thoughts about solutions: I start with a recommendation to the educational institutions of health professionals and health professionals' organisations to make a greater contribution to reducing the culture of guardian and power that unfortunately exists among health professionals. As measure No 2 I prioritise a much stronger user involvement in public care institutions, and then I think of an expanded user involvement where the relatives are also heard and taken on board in terms of care and care. As measure No 3 I believe that staff should be increased by almost all public hospitals, as the average care factor today is between 0.60 and 0.70. This is not enough to take care of the heavy care we currently have in nursing homes, where the average age is well over 80 years. As item No 4 I believe that the municipalities must be required to provide at least six months of post-graduate education in geriatry to permanent health workers in public health care centres. And as point number. 5 I believe that the supervisory system must be strengthened, and that the supervisory authorities, i.e. county doctors, must have the capacity for unannounced annual visits to all hospitals. We should also consider setting up a nationwide care agency for the elderly. Finally, I would suggest that the Government proceed as soon as possible with a research project to elucidate the conditions for employees and patients in public and private health institutions identified in the Malmedal report and in the latest supervisory reports from county doctors. Finally, I address the proposals that have been distributed on the desks of the representatives. I allow myself to correct the last suggestion. It says care factor 90. There are people who have trouble understanding what that means. It should have been 0.90, i.e. 0.90 annual work per year patients in the nursing home.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e353	The representative Alvheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e356	Today's interpellation is based on a study that complements the annual reports we get from county schools, as well as other surveys we know. Unfortunately, there are still considerable variations within the care of the elderly. Unworthy relationships are detected. The report highlights the importance of further action. The self-report takes into account the ‘total institution’, the follow-up of those staying at the institution and the relationship between those providing it and those receiving it. The beekeepers, who are very sick and in need of care, are particularly vulnerable to the culture of institutions. There may be daily routines set by the institution, which the old ones have to adjust to. There may be standardisation of services, which means that one treats the inhabitants as a homogeneous group and violates its own integrity, and the abuse can often be diffuse. The attack is about hidden medication, that the farmer gets too little food and gets ignored, and that doors get locked. These may be actions that they do not think enough about because of the culture of the institution and their own postures. It is well known that institutions can develop cultures where such relationships arise without, on their own, causing evil will from them. Of course, it can also be a matter of resources and time. The director of each institution has a responsibility both for the occupants and for the working environment of their members. He/she is responsible for how the tasks are organised, how to facilitate a good working environment, and whether workers are followed up professionally and given guidance and space to reflect on their own behaviour and behaviour. The municipal leadership has a superior responsibility for these matters. The report deals in many ways with the situation and legal security of people with age sentences. Here are many challenges and dilemmas. Let me mention the need to ensure the right to distribution, diagnosis and treatment, the need to ensure the necessary quality of everyday care, the need to increase the competence of health, social and care professionals and the need for increased research in this area. There is also a need for rules that limit coerciveness in the provision of services. As mentioned above, the report is not a representative study, but an analysis of some phenomena in an institution culture. It points to a situation that needs to be taken seriously. The municipality of Trondheim, where Malmedal has carried out the investigation, has started to develop a training model in hospitals. They have also produced a report on the quality of hospitals. So the question is, what does the Minister of Social Affairs do? There is no easy solution to the problems these studies point to. A number of measures are needed, and the representative Alvheim himself points to several points. Let me sort this out in three main areas. First of all, add the grips to them. Follow-up to the 1997 review of quality in care services is important. The newsletter focuses on the users of care services. The purpose is to ensure that people who accept these services are given their basic needs with respect for the individual's worth and way of life. The quality of services is related to the quality of life of the user and the experience of security, good care and defence. I have visited a number of municipalities. I have then been told that the quality regulation is in use, but I am familiar with changing countries. The Ministry of Health and Public Health also implements several projects to identify good practices to ensure the quality of services. A quality adviser has been added in all county medical offices in the country to advise on the care sector. The Ministry will, on the basis of information on how municipalities use quality circulars, adjust and revise them. I would like to clarify how the services can improve the quality of the demente. In 1998, I asked the county councils to strengthen their oversight. This has already led to better care in some municipalities. In 1998, the Ministry issued guidelines for the preparation of individual care plans. The guidelines are intended to assist users of the care services, their relatives, volunteers and the service providers. The aim is to make it more clear to all parties what the individual and any dependant can expect from municipal services. Directionlines may be a tool to improve the dialogue between the parties. The competence of the candidates shall be enhanced both by the recruitment of more professionals and by training measures. If it's hard to get the beavers to eat, it might be. are because the staff do not have enough knowledge of the individual’s needs and the individual’s situation. The action plan for health and social workers is an important measure to try to reverse developments in relation to the personnel situation. Recruitment of competent personnel, holding on to them and giving them good follow-up, are major challenges. Unfortunately, the health care sector has a low status among health and social workers. Initial training has now given a great deal of emphasis to expanding staff for specialist services. A development project has been launched with the educational institution, a national project aimed at developing four hospitals as centres of competence, education, vocational development and research within the care and care services. It should be good to stay or stay in the hospital. Treatment, care and care should be good. It is therefore also necessary to do something basic to recruit more people to work with old people. The Geratri programme was also established to increase the status of health services to the elderly, primarily as a specialist healthcare service, but also for municipal health services. This application supports other applications, including: health professionals wishing to continue their training in geriatrics. Another part of the programme is to strengthen cooperation between hospitals and the community health services, including care and care services. The government follows the retirement plan month by month – 28,500 housing units, 12,000 annual works within four years, with an opening for a longer time. Some of the government funds are also used for training, empowerment and equipment, including security alarms and other necessary tasks in the care of the elderly. It seems that the new stuff is being replaced now has less institutionalism than before. A 1998 study by Baugforsk shows that the new institutional sites are very different from the old ones. They have, among other things: increased area, with both a bath and a kitchen hook. There is a tendency for the distinction between arc units and institutional positions to be balanced. Through the old-age plan, municipalities have several building units for old-age dentures, both in institutions and in buccal collectives. It also shows the Building Research Survey. It is a central and important finding when we think about the lack of care for this group and that the group will grow in the future. There is no doubt that most of the municipalities are now facing their chances of developing. Nor is there any doubt that the close follow-up between the department, county, county, and local authorities ensures a better care. Let me also report very quickly that the probationary systems of care and care that have been advertised earlier, which relate to some municipalities, are expected to be in place by the first quarter of 1999. When it comes to over-medication of the elderly, state health surveillance now wants to carry out a four-five-year project, one of which is to identify the problems and, on the other hand, to take action to improve the quality of care and where revision of legislation in the area of supervision and consultation is central. Finally, let me point out that the work on the Storing Report on Care 2000, which will be submitted to the fall, is well under way. The content and values of the care and care services and in the care sector shall be discussed – the value base, the quality of the services, the personnel situation and, not least, the issues of user involvement and society’s attitudes to those in need of care, and age dentures shall focus in particular on them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e402	I thank the Council of State for the answer to my interpellation, which was largely in line with what I had expected from the Minister of Social Affairs. There is no, and has not been, any particular disagreement in the care of the elderly, neither in the Stortinget nor in the Government, so this was nice to register, but not surprising. I am also pleased with the information that was given about this care message. I didn't have any indication of that, and we're looking forward to the result of it. What may be most important in this situation – and it doesn't have much to do with resources, money and buildings – is the attitudes. And if you're going to stick trust in what's in the Malmedal report, which was the starting point here, I think some of the worst thing is that you have an attitude toward older people who are in line with the attitude of a dead thing. I think that's pretty scary. We were told what the hospitals were required to do in relation to basic human functions. Only the fact that it was necessary for the ministry to make such a circular to health professionals who care for the elderly, sick, is itself a warning that something is going really wrong with attitudes and attitudes towards the elderly, and not least the seniles. What I want to underline in this context is what was launched by the Social Minister for Medicine – I registered that the State Health Authority should look at this, and that they should have a project going on over four to five years. It doesn't make any sense. We have to get something done right away with the medication routines in the hospitals, because it's a good thing that patients are being let down and reduced their lives because of overmedication. For what reason this is done, I'm not going to go into any detail here and now, but someone thinks that it's because they don't have time to deal with patients in a normal human, social relationship, and then you use drugs instead. This with a hand to hold in seems to be an unknown concept, for various reasons, in our foster institutions, and that seems to me to be a great regret.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e416	I record that the interpellant and I are not surprising some of that something of the most important, but also the most difficult, is to focus on grips and change them. It's probably a long-term work, but let's hope that all the concrete measures that are at least in this field will bear fruit. It's just the grips, the values that should be at the bottom, the content of the ‘eternal care’ that I want to highlight in my own big message. The human resources situation itself needs to be focused, and the current competences need to be strengthened. One important question is the special situation in which an age dimension is. There's no doubt that there's also where the clips we don't want are the most obvious. I believe that some of this is due to lack of knowledge — time pressure, work situation, etc., but above all to lack of knowledge. But in addition to that, there are probably several situations in which we also need to discuss either regulation or at least an interpretation of today's situation. Alvheim has received medical treatment. There I think we have to do both – and, I think we have to do something short-term, and then we have to let the Health Authority follow up on something longer term. Another area is harm-reduction measures, consent, representation and not least the relationship with the new technology we are now seeing, where one side can use it to make the situation easier and better for many elderly and disabled people, but where legal security and privacy need to be confirmed. It's also necessary, I think, to limit services that a person opposes or disagrees with, i.e. coercive measures. Now, if you want one of these to have your own law or one of these limits to be set in a different way, you're looking at it. A good deal of work is being done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e427	Wenche Malmedal's main task in the field of health has raised legitimate awareness. The depth interviews clearly reveal how vulnerable older nursing people are, and that there is a need for an ever-ethical upgrade to ensure a decent care for the elderly. Nevertheless, neither will nor can I in any way attack the many thousand laborers – mainly women – who carry Health Norway in their hands. In most cases, they make a formidable effort of which they respect. Working in a nursing home is incredibly demanding both physically and mentally. I myself have been in contact with several people who have been burned out due to understaffing. Yes, I have also met a nurse who openly admitted that she had to stop because her own feeling of inadequacy led to her actually starting to treat the elderly as shown here. These are people who have chosen their profession based on the interests of helping others, and who through their education have gained special competence in feeling, compassion and care. Therefore, the fact that conditions can develop negatively is, to the most extent, a management responsibility and a political responsibility. First of all, the positions adopted must be filled, and then both the State and the municipalities must provide enough nursing staff. I will now ask the Government to come to Stortinget as soon as possible with its own revised and up-to-date plan for the recruitment and qualification of health professionals. Adopt a particular care factor is actually meaningless as long as the people are not available. Nor is there any further research that we now need in the first place. Everyday life is out where the elderly and the carers meet. I believe that Wenche Malmedal's task can form the basis for the personnel seminars in every municipality to prepare attitudes, and not least the staff must be kept on hold. Only then can they do a good job for the elderly. In the case of elderly caregivers, it may be reconsidered. But I think it is far more important that the Government now ensure that the Action Plan for the Elderly is implemented in line with the Storting decision and all parties' electoral commitments, than that we build a new state bureaucracy. With regard to the proposals made by the representative Alvheim, I would like them to be submitted to the Government for evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e444	There are increasing numbers of older people in our country, and many of the older people have chronic illnesses or disabilities that make them so needy that they have to live in a nursing home. In order to ensure good quality of service, it is important to ensure regular supervision and that a person captures critical circumstances. It is important for patients that the unworthy conditions described in the report are brought to light. Even more important is the fact that the Council of State can now confirm that these conditions are changing. The report has provided a basis for a positive improvement for patients. The survey is based on eight in-depth interviews of employees at three hospitals and is therefore very limited. However, it has received relatively large media reviews. I'm afraid that there's an impression that that's how it's generally happening at most hospitals, that patients are being met with such demeaning attitudes. For staff working at nursing homes, this is a little motivating in an strenuous everyday life. Despite time pressure and often low care factors, most people try to treat the residents with care and respect, and they go very far to meet individual needs. Working in the care sector is not high. At the same time, we know that demand for professionals will increase. To achieve the objectives of the Senior Care Action Plan, at least 12 000 additional annual work is required by 2003. If we are to be able to recruit and retain all the personnel we have, it is important to build skills. An action plan for health and social workers has been established. This plan is a central tool for achieving the objectives of the escalation plans for elderly care and psychiatry. Without access to personnel with the right knowledge, skills and attitudes that are needed, we will not succeed in these efforts. The action plan provides for a programme to qualify unskilled in the care sector. In the main message about the ageing effort, 1/3 of the employees are estimated to be unskilled. Therefore, increasing their competence is an important objective. The provision of continuing training for caregivers needs to be strengthened. The Christian People's Party believes that it is very important to bet on qualification measures for those working on grassroots. In a tough everyday life, it is important that there are opportunities for regular professional replenishment. The State Health Authority has appointed quality advisers to all county doctors in the country. It will improve the advice of the first line service to avoid situations as described in the interpellation. The Christian People's Party believes it would be wise to wait for the 4-year test of the order of senior representatives in some municipalities before we look at the order of one senior agent for the whole country. But we are concerned that weak groups have someone who can speak their case. I also recommend that the three proposals be turned into transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e467	It is agreed that the findings of this study are unacceptable. But there is unfortunately reason to believe that this does not only apply to the three hospitals that are part of the study. It is frightening to hear about the attitudes that employees have towards the elderly that they are going to help and care for. It reflects a human vision that does not belong in a humanistic society. It is unworthy and unacceptable. The older people involved are, in fact, completely lacking fundamental human rights, legal certainty and privacy. And it's about the lack of ethical attitudes of employees. What can be done with action plans and guidelines on quality of care and care if they are not followed up? Of course, the elderly have the same standards of respect and integrity regardless of whether they are nurturing or not, regardless of whether they live at home or in an institution. There is reason to ask where those with professional responsibility have been, where the supervisory authorities have been and where the politicians have been in the situation described here. The aim of care for the elderly is to help older people with a need for care and care to continue to live a safe and as secure and independent life as possible. They are entitled to individual care that meets their needs. A prerequisite for this is that both capacity and quality services are so well-developed that older people can feel secure that they are well cared for and cared for. It is about giving priority to care for the elderly and basic health services. Experience from Sweden and Norway shows that the introduction of tenders and competition in the care of the elderly has contributed to a completely different emphasis on quality and quality control. The overall results show better quality of services, greater freedom of choice, participation of the caregivers and their families and economic savings used for even more care services. There is also a great willingness to change one's own business. By allowing private employment services, a significant improvement in the availability of health professionals in the care of the elderly will be achieved. In addition to the measures outlined by the Minister of Social Affairs, I would like to ask the Minister of Social Affairs to invite the municipalities to look at different forms of organisation for care and care, so that older people and people with disabilities are given greater influence over whom to provide services and how to organise the offer. If we don't make the necessary changes, I'm afraid we'll get a two-part division of the elderly care, where the families who can afford to pay for private offers do that, and the rest have to do with less good public offers. It can't be accepted by the right. With regard to the proposals made by the representative Alvheim, I would recommend that he turn them into a transmission proposal, as the Council of State has now announced that there will be a great deal of communication about the care services in the municipalities. We will then have an in-depth discussion of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e484	The interpellant expressed frustration that in 1999 there was a need to deal with the care and care of our elderly and needy people. With regard to all the unworthy conditions we face, I agree, but I believe that the debate on our care services should never stop. Ethics and ideology in this field in terms of humanity, dignity and integrity should remain firm, but we still need a continuous follow-up and quality assurance of these principles, whether they can operate at all levels and be properly exercised in practice. Time only allows me to come with some keywords in relation to this problem. One of the problems is mismedication and overmedication. The interpellant said, "The patients are limping down and getting their lives shortened." Unfortunately, I think the interpellant is sadly right. It's a mis-medication and over-medication that's urgent. I ask that both the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Health look at this as soon as possible, because this happens every day. So to this with the role of the supervisor and the professional criteria for medical treatment. I believe that the role of the supervisory board must be carried out in a completely different way from today, both in terms of time and professional and human quality assurance. I believe that the medical system needs to be assessed much more strongly in the care of the elderly, and that there must also be a clarification of responsibility between healthcare professionals and the doctor, because caregivers often have much better insight into the individual patient’s condition and the need for both medication and care. The care factor has become a theme again, and I'm kind of happy about that. Some years ago, the care factor was an important element in discussing the quality and level of care for the elderly. I think it has to go in. It's not enough, as the representative Eyeågen said, to just talk about the care factor. However, I think that the individual municipality should make quality assurance in the care of the elderly a matter of campaigning, linked to the care factor they now have in their care for the elderly, because I think this has a lot to do with well-being and care levels. So for geriatrics and care for the elderly and raising the status of this area. The centre party has addressed this many times, among other things. by involving more geriatry in the basic training of health professionals, whether at the medical or care level, the whole range of elderly care professionals. Professional development through better education and research is important to raise the status of geriatrics. So a little bit back to the supervision system, and then in relation to the role of the county doctor. The county doctor should be more diligent in the care of the elderly, with notified supervision and unannounced supervision. It should be subject to annual supervision. Otherwise, I am glad that there is now a health message that can address several things about ethics in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e504	There is absolute reason to support the interpellant in relation to the theme he addresses, and the importance of constantly focusing the search light on the care of the elderly and the quality it represents, possibly not representing. So far, I fully agree that the interpellant addresses this topic. I note, however, that both the interpellant and others who have spoken here today strongly highlight the attitudes of employees and the approach to care for the elderly. Among other things, the interpellant said that ‘a hand to hold in seems to be an unknown concept in our nursing institutions’. I think that picture is too unfurnished. I believe that if you look at Norwegian institutions in general, at nursing and care institutions, at home-based care and at the efforts made by employees, you will find that most people have good attitudes. They are concerned with the work they are doing, and they are making significant efforts. I believe that much of the frustration over the shortcomings you experience, we politicians must take inwards and look at. We have put many employees in a difficult situation because of a lack of resources. Many wear out and burn out during this work and have problems getting time to go to. Of course, you'll find examples where attitudes aren't what they should be, but I think it's going to be completely wrong if we make this just a question of employee attitudes, and almost criticise the work they're doing. I think that the interpellant is interested in something important when he looks at the care factor, and seeks to do something about it through a proposal. Such a proposal cannot be adopted here in the Grand Duchy today. Of course, there will be a question of what resources are required and what ringing effects it can have, so it is quite obvious that it needs to be converted into a transmission proposal. However, the very provision of a searchlight on quality assurance, on better resources related to care for the elderly and to relieve employees so that they can do an important job must be correct. But we have to have some ice in our stomachs. When there's interpellations here, you can sometimes get the impression that it's going to be painted with the widest brush, and then in an hour we're going to be united in a description of what's going on out in the country, and then meet the next day to an interpellation where another kind of misery is to be described. This is actually what we politicians are responsible for. But we also need to be able to see that there has been a significant development in the care of the elderly, and that there is a quality assurance work going on, but that of course we should help by cutting down where the results are horrifying. It is not that the whole care of the elderly in Norway is almost at rest on site, has had no development, or nothing positive has happened. That's why we have to bring the shades. And then we're going to be supporting the employees, so we're going to guarantee quality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e517	Although the representative Alvheim's interpellation is based on only one study, perhaps on a thin basis, we know that there are many problems associated with the somatic hospitals. Other studies have been carried out, and many have self-experienced episodes to show when these problems are involved. I agree with the representative Alvheim that it is unworthy that we in Norway feel that way today. But fortunately, there are also many good hospitals that are very good for the inhabitants. I want to support the social minister in that it is problematic that hospitals have such a low status. We all have to take the blame for this. The problem is general, and relates to the low status of the nurturing old people in our culture. There will be no high status working with these groups. To a large extent, there will be another low-level group, women who are unskilled or have short-term education, who are responsible for most of the care. It is then difficult to raise quality, status or interest to work in the care of the elderly, and the professional environment becomes poor. I think extra status is very important. The Minister of Social Affairs outlined in his answer how the problem behaves, and what the Government has done. It includes, among other things: guidelines for individual care plans, competence centres for the age sentence and the geriatric project. Many of these are very good and will have an effect over time, especially if one is closed with the recruitment. But I still think it is important to point out that we, as central politicians or the government, cannot solve the problems by sending out very detailed circulars. It is in the first row the individual municipality that has to grips with this. All parties concerned with these problems – and we are all – must be encouraged to work together to put the level of care in the municipality’s institutions and staff’s competence on the agenda. As the representative Ola D. Glötvold said, we have to make this an electoral campaign. It is important and healthy for those who work in the care services to experience that they are seen, and thereby appreciate them. If no one sees them, it is also not important to do the work as best they can. The health and care services have to a great extent been shut down and have been able to live their own lives. This is not good. In view of the major challenges facing this sector, we need to cooperate locally on good solutions for those in need of care. It applies to us all sooner or later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e528	Nursing and care personnel, municipal authorities, landfilling and government must have constant attention to the care and care offered to our elderly. The Labour Party believes that one of the main tasks of the welfare state is to provide services to those who need it, for example: ensure that children in need of supervision and care are provided with it and that the elderly have access to a nursing home or a nursing home when they report their needs. This is why we are counting on municipalities to facilitate a good care provision, and for the elderly to meet caregivers and caregivers. The working party believes that the cash transfer is not the answer when the need is care and care. It is essential to enable municipalities to build up their services. For this reason, the Jagland government invited the Stortingen to adopt an action plan for the care of the elderly, such as the United Kingdom, in the spring of 1997. would result in full public funding for municipalities of 24 400 places in nursing homes or in nursing homes and 12000 annual shifts in nursing and care services over four years, from 1998 to 2001. It is regrettable, then, that through its 1999 budget, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Government Parties weaken the reform by granting less money than is deemed necessary and which was the decision of the Grand Duchy in June 1997. Having said this, however, I will not criticize the fact that the interpellant draws attention to unworthy conditions in some nursing home – on the contrary, it is necessary. The report referred to describes conditions that are unacceptable and of course should not occur. This is an assault on the elderly in a broad sense. I also refer here to a report from eight researchers in the Nordic region, published by the Nordic Council of Ministers, on assaults against the elderly. This report clearly shows that we do not have the power to give all our elderly a dignified care. The treatment of the elderly and sick in hospitals is not only a matter of money, but often to the same extent a question of ethics and attitudes, as other representatives have also been involved in this debate. Hospital owners were informed in 1997 by the Minister of Social Affairs Hill-Marta Solberg about the quality of the care services crystal clear of the standards in question and the requirements of hospital residents, even in relation to the most obvious everyday things. This has to be taken seriously. We're not going to have such relationships as described here today. Otherwise, I would like to give my support to the representative, Ballo, who said that we should nuance the opinions and opinions a little more. The parental care doesn't stand still, it's moving forward. Employees do a good job, but it is obvious that in some places it can be done better.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e543	That's the serious relationship the interpellant refers to. The question is how representative it is. He has pointed out that this is a small study. Before we know more, it's important that we avoid generalization and black paint. What has emerged is serious, but we must not risk leading to a general mistrust of Norwegian nursing homes. The elderly shall have a worthy old age in the institutions, good care and care, and not least respect. It is important to point out failures in these areas, where they occur, so that the failure can be corrected. That said, it is important to clarify that according to my experience Norwegian nursing and care professionals have consistently high professional and ethical standards. But they have a work situation that is often very stressful both physically and mentally. It is not by chance that precisely these occupational groups have a high frequency of stress diseases. It is precisely this relationship that helps to make the work situation more difficult, including: because sick leave leads to overtime work for colleagues and the need for temporary workers with a lack of continuity and perhaps experience. The interpellant emphasises attitudes. I think that's right. But I also believe that just a stressful work situation is the best ground for unlucky attitudes that we do not want. During the time I have known the Norwegian health care system, the nursing homes have been given new and demanding tasks, especially in the form of more advanced care and treatment than before. In many places there is almost a small revolution that has happened. Today, patients who would have to be hospitalized only a few years ago may be treated in a hospital in their immediate environment. This is clearly a progress and an advantage for both patients and relatives. Of course, it also releases to some extent much more expensive hospital beds, but it leads to increased stress on the nursing homes. What we now have to ensure is that the increased tasks of hospitals do not lead to the unfortunate consequences and unworthy conditions that have been pointed out and that we all want to prevent.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e552	It is commendable that the representative Alvheim is concerned about the situation at our nursing home, and I share his view that older people are entitled to careful and dignified treatment. But there are some brief conclusions in the Progress Party's policy. Words and actions are not connected. The Progress Party underlines the lack of nursing homes and nursing homes, but the logic is flawed when the Advance Party follows up its verbal concern to step in to postpone the implementation of the Age Plan by two years. Many believed in the Word and promises of the Advance Party to do something for the elderly, and many are disappointed that now, when they had power and could make their influence apply through the budget, they used it to postpone the implementation of the greatest lifting ever intended to take place within the care of the elderly. The Progress Party and Alvheim underline the right of older people to due care and to be shown respect. The Labour Party shares these views. But at the Progress Party, we again experience a lack of coherence between word and action. At the last national meeting in the Labour Party, former Prime Minister Nordli said: When I get old and need care, I would ask that I not be offered. And his reasoning was linked to demands of dignity and respect. The Progress Party is talking about dignity and respect, but in municipalities across the country it is doing a great deal of work to expose the elderly to competition and tendering. The logic of the outsourcing is more effective per year. employed, more earnings. There will be less time for care, less understanding for the care of demented or dying. Care and treatment logic is different from competition logic. There is a lack of continuity of treatment and uncertainty among residents in a nursing home if competitive outsourcing is to continue to lead to a change of operating companies and thus a constant change of staff. Does the Advancement Party mean anything in its words about care and respect? They should then go on their own and look at the consequences of the privatisation ideology they use in their policies. In Oslo, the Right Party and the Advance Party aim at offering the entire care of the elderly. It has an economic framework of $4 billion. There is a lot of private economy and little care that underpins that policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e565	I had deliberately not submitted to this interpellation on the basis of politics. I am amazed that the Workers' Party in opposition continues its duty course with the last two speeches by the representatives of Asmund Kristoffersen and Britt Hildeng, and goes to the frontal attack on the anticipatory policy of the Advance Party. Those who know the history of this house would not at all have thought to express what the representative Hildeng now said, if you were to be honest. It is not as suggested that the elderly package is not in any way fulfilled until the current date. All the municipalities that have their plans clear, and have submitted an application, have received the amounts they should have. What is it when you scream for? Competitive outsourcing – what is it? It is not privatisation, but it is making services better and cheaper, with better quality. I guess it doesn't matter to Mrs. Hansen or to Mr. Jensen who owns and runs the nursing home, only they get good care and care, which unfortunately they don't get everywhere today. It's outsourcing. So we have the opportunity to give more help and care, with better quality. But this is a red cloth for the socialists. I would like to address this with nuance at the end of the debate. I was very nuanced in my post, and I don't want to be sitting on myself that I've generalized around these problems. In fact, I believe that it is not just at these three hospitals mentioned in the report that we have these conditions. The representative Eyegen says that adopting a care factor is just nonsense – she didn't exactly use those words, but that's what she meant – because we don't have personnel to put in. 70 pst. by the assistants of the institutions today are in 30-40 pst. position, if you look at the cut. There is plenty of good access to nursing staff here. When we maintain a care factor that we did in the 1970s, where the average age in the nursing homes was about. 60-67 years old and up to 70 years old, and today we know that the average age is up to 80 years old, everyone, even if you're not a professional, needs to understand that care is much heavier than it was before. Then I think it's reasonable to have a care factor of 0.90. I maintain the proposals as they are available on the table of representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e578	First to two concrete questions. The one thing, from Gunhild Eyegain, was an update of the health care plan. Let me say that there is also a plan that both the Minister of Health, the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Education are following very closely. The population has seen 1 April as a deadline for the municipalities to get an overview of how the funds were used in 1998. There are mid-terms for 1999. The size is given feedback in the budget on how the situation is so far. So to Sonja Sjøli about the competition. There will first be an assessment in the Community economicproposition and an additional discussion of this theme in the ‘Observance 2000’ message. I think municipalities should look at new opportunities through the old age plan to ensure that they take care of the care services themselves. I would like to discuss alternative options to postponing competition in this message. I believe that the Workers' Party is still operating with the expression'restraint' of the elderly. That's wrong. There is an offset we're talking about here, a possibility for the municipalities themselves that need more time to participate in the bids that were made available from the beginning for just four years. Let me finally say that the representative John I. Alvheim has seen the search light on a very important topic, and we can rejoice today that very many elderly people in this country have received very good care in a short time. Some people already had it, a lot more people have got it after getting older. The debate also confirms that there is a cross-political commitment to securing even more of a better and more worthwhile care for the elderly. There is no doubt that today there are a lot of unskilled people who, with their postures, are involved in keeping Care-Noreg up, with the quality of a Finn where quality is best. Nor is there any doubt that there is no theoretical knowledge, but other human qualities that are decisive for the grips that we want. Four h's are important before this field: house, hands, holding and heart. The first two h's are secured in the elderly plan and the personnel plan; the last two we need to do more to secure through the care 2000 message.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e593	Then the interpellation debate is over. [[Recommendation, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e606	The size is ready to start the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e612	During the debate, Mr Stolt-Nielsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to enter into negotiations with the foundations concerned on the future mutual obligations concerning the operation and maintenance of ‘Christian Radich’, ‘Statsraad Lehmkuhl’ and ‘South Africa’, and to bring the matter to the Grand Duchy of Great Britain as soon as possible on its obligations regarding use and cost coverage.’ The proposal by the Party of Advancement and the Right and then the vote will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e651	During the debate, John I. Alvheim put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, which have been distributed in the Chamber. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch a research project to shed light on the situation of patients and employees in public and private care institutions.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘It is recommended that the Government re-assess the need to establish a nationwide elderly care service.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government not to approve municipal care plans where the care factor in somatic nursing homes is less than 90.’ The President drew attention to a correction in proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox It shall read ‘less than 0,9 years’. Proposal No. 2 by the Progress Party is a transmission proposal in its form, and the President proposes that it be transmitted to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Gunhild Eyegen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e675	The main measures in the care of the elderly are now to implement the action plan for the care of the elderly in accordance with the decision of the Stortingen, and at the rate adopted, and that the Government will return to the Stortingen with an update of the action plan for the recruitment of health professionals. I would therefore recommend that the Members of the Labour Party vote against proposal No. 1 and 3 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e680	Sonja Irene Sjøli – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e683	From the point of view of the Minister of Social Affairs, I have explained in the debate today, and that the Government will present a big message on the care services in the municipalities of the autumn, I would recommend the Honourable Members to vote against proposals No. 1 and 3.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e688	Ola D. Glötvold – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e691	It has been recommended that the Progress Party make these two proposals, No. 1 and 3 on transmission proposals. It has not succeeded in getting them to do so, and then my recommendation is that we vote from the centre against these two proposals, with the justification that the representatives Eyeågen and Sjøli here also gave that, according to signals from the Social Minister today, among other things. A new communication on care and care will be published in 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e696	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e699	I have come to understand that it is a wish of the Progress Party to vote in favour of these two proposals, and they wish to do so. In view of the fact that the Government is sending a big message to the autumn, I would also recommend the members of the Socialist Left to vote against the proposals – proposal No. 3 partly also because it is incalculable in relation to the care factor mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e704	Then explanations of vote are given. Proposals Nos. 1 and 3, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-19.ana.ud26e722	There is no record.
