ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e37	Representative John I. Alvheim will present a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e40	On behalf of the representative Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I propose to amend the Law of 28 February 1997 No. 19 on public interest rates on the repayment of benefits from public security.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e45	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure. At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are processed – and considered to be agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e68	Odelstinget treats today Ot.prp. No 20 and Inn. O. No 47, concerning amendments to the Local Government Act. These relate to changes in the gender equality rules for the composition of elected bodies. These relate to changes in the rules of leave for elected representatives. This concerns changes to the rules on parliamentary governance. And there is also a section on changing or expanding the obligation of professional secrecy for elected representatives. To take the last one first, the municipal law does not currently have any specific rules on professional secrecy. However, rules on professional secrecy for elected representatives are laid down in the Administrative Act. A proposal to provide certain specific rules on professional secrecy for members of elected bodies, linked to the rules of the municipal law on the public meeting, has been consulted and discussed in the proposal. The government concludes that no such legislative proposal should now be promoted. The Committee agrees, however, that there is a great deal of uncertainty in local authorities about the rules on professional secrecy applicable to elected representatives. It's not good, and it probably creates a lot of trouble. The Committee therefore asks the Council of State to develop without delay new easily understandable guidance material on the professional secrecy of elected representatives, which is sent to the municipalities. This should be in place until the newly elected local authorities start up in October. The Committee considers it important that the Storting imposes no more professional secrecy than is strictly necessary. If we are to get a renewal of local democracy, openness and transparency are important. Citizens must be made aware of matters before a decision is taken, otherwise there will be no real influence or influence. Therefore, proposals for new and extended rules on professional secrecy are not being promoted at this time. Amendments to the gender equality rules for the composition of elected bodies are proposed. A majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV support the Government's proposal, and believe that the municipal law rules on gender representation should go ahead of any decisions on horizontal representation. Derogations shall be granted only in the case of elections to the Presidency and the County Committee and where the Committees are not entitled to take decisions, but are appointed only to a higher body. After seeing the new Right-List of municipal elections in my municipality, it may not be surprising that the Right-List goes against such a proposal, because on that list there were 17 men and 2 women. The Progress Party also generally has few women on its lists, nor will it support the majority position. All except the Progress Party agree that the provisions on gender representation shall also apply to municipal enterprises. Then it becomes a little strange and not consistent, I think, that it is only the Workers' Party and the SV that go in order that the same rules also apply to intercommunal companies. We therefore ask the Government to return to this matter in an appropriate form later. On an incursion, there is an error in the settings. It is not as stated in a majority comment in the middle of page 10 of the setting that the Workers' Party supports the Government at this point. The comment does not become a majority comment, but a minority comment, and I ask that it be corrected. In the case of changes to the rules on leave for elected representatives, all Government proposals that elected representatives of municipalities and county councils should be entitled to leave for up to four years in order to provide full-time or part-time jobs as elected members of the population and that there is no lower limit to the part-time employment. It is important that these rules be interpreted as minimum standards, and where the main agreements and the like provide better conditions, this should continue to apply. Changes in parliamentary governance are probably the point that has created the most debate, and that may not be so strange. Because even if a unanimous committee says that they want to give the municipalities maximum freedom to organise themselves as they wish, the government parties and the SV will not be able to give the municipalities the freedom they need to introduce a parliamentary form of governance. Today there is a need for a two-thirds majority to decide that the municipality should change to a parliamentary form of governance, but that there is only a need for a normal majority to return to the Presidency model again. This means that a majority consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party are not correct. It must be the same majority that decides whether to go from one form of governance to another. Both are significant changes. Therefore, the case is required to be dealt with both in the outgoing municipal council and in the new, i.e. over two legislative periods. This cannot be decided by means of a bench proposal within the local authority. But from that to going as far as the centre parties and the SV do, to let the small parties, or 1/3 of the representatives of the municipalities, shut down a large majority who want to change the governance of parliamentaryism, is not to give the municipalities the greatest freedom to organize themselves as they wish. There are several large municipalities and county councils that will be very pleased with the decision taken here today, because if the minority were to have a majority in favour of its proposal, for example, it would be very happy. The Bergen or Tromsø or Nordland County Council is unlikely to have received a 2/3 majority when, for the autumn of the new municipal councils, they are going to deal with the matter of changing the governance of parliamentarianism for the second time. This is not a constitutional change and cannot be compared to it, as someone claims. This is only a change in the municipal law. And I'm going to ask, where in the municipal law do we find that a 2/3 majority is required in a reconciliation otherwise? It is also true that the municipalities that have realised that they have not been able to obtain a 2/3 majority and thus have been able to implement parliamentary governance have organised themselves with many strange solutions and with an equal number of full-day politicians – if that is the problem for the minority. The Labour Party is confident that the politicians in the municipalities and county councils themselves will take the responsibility for the organisation of the municipality in the best possible way and will facilitate it. It is those who are responsible for the economy of the municipalities, including how many full-day politicians there are who have to make such a decision. The central association of municipalities also agrees that the usual majority is sufficient and correct. The municipalities and not least the county councils are struggling with the turnout. During the examination of the municipal law in 1992, Stortinget agreed that municipalities should have the greatest possible freedom to organise themselves both politically and administratively as they wish. That's this majority follow-up. We believe that this will be an important contribution to increasing the interest and commitment in political work locally. Political responsibility needs to be made more visible. It will contribute to such a form of governance. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs has written to the Committee that she aims to implement the legislative changes from 1 July of this year, provided that the Stortinget deals with the legislative proposal in spring. So let's do that. I therefore assume that the Council of State is also following up its letter, so that the municipalities and county councils which have already dealt with the transition to parliamentaryism by the end of 1998 can take the final decision when a new municipal government/commitment meets in the autumn. I ask the Council of State to confirm this. So to the second case, a Document No. 8-proposals by Torbjørn Andersen, Harald T. Nesvik and Lodve Solholm of the Progress Party, which consider that there is a need for clarification, or clarification, of the delegation rules in Section 10, No. 2 in the municipal law, and has promoted a private proposal for change, which we are dealing with here today. The amendment is based on the fact that, if the Local Council/ county has delegated power of decision to a selection, the Local Council/commitment is the sole overall body of the sample, unless otherwise provided for in the delegation regulations or decisions relating to the delegation mandate. The proposers believe that in some municipalities the Presidency often intervenes and transforms decisions on matters covered by selections delegated to take such decisions. The proposers claim that the chairmanship members do not follow up on the new municipal law and continue to live in their ‘old role’ where they would say everything about the Presidency before the matter was dealt with by the local government. The proposers believe that this is contrary to the intentions of the new municipal law. The whole Committee agrees with the proposers that if a selection has been delegated decision-making powers in local/ county matters, the chairmanship may not intervene and review the decision because they disagree with the selection decision. The Committee also considers that the intentions of the new municipal law are that the Presidency/committee should not be a ‘supercommittee’ in relation to other permanent selections or other bodies set up by the local government/committees, but have the same formal status and noddling authority to the local council and can decide on matters for which they have been delegated. The whole Committee also considers that the law is very clear on this point and that the Presidency/Committee of the State cannot re-adopt legally adopted decisions. So far the Committee fully agrees, and also the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. The Ministry also points out that if the local government/community wants the Presidency/community committee to have an overall role in relation to other selections, for example: in the light of the desire for the best possible coordination of economic matters, it is possible to do so. But then it has to be clear in the delegation decision. The Committee agrees that municipalities must have the freedom to organise themselves as they wish, and that this will be different from local authorities. So until we're in disagreement. The Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, considers that the legislative text does not need to be amended. The majority believe that the law is sufficiently clear and comprehensive. The majority have also not been able to demonstrate that this is a problem in the municipalities. However, the majority will ask the Ministry, on an appropriate occasion in an information letter to the municipalities, to clarify the legal text in Section 10 paragraph. 2 in the municipal law. We are faced with a new election and get new elected members of the people into governments and advice for the autumn. I expect the Council of State to follow up the request for an information letter with the first.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e130	The representative Signe Eye has made a mistake in Inn. O. No 47 on page 10. This is registered.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e133	We're dealing with two things. I don't want to do the right thing for the Progress Party's hold when it comes to the chapters where we're in the plural. I thought the case-speaker had a good review when it comes to the obligations of the parties and parliamentarianism, and I would only support it under the order of the case-speaker in this way. Where we separate layers in the innermost. O. No 47, is in the intersection of the equality paragraph that goes on the 40/60 distribution between the selection gender to be selected. This should be done in the name of solidarity and in the name of equality, in order to ensure more of both sexes – in the first instance, perhaps more women – into the local government and into selections. And there's nothing bad about it. In the Progress Party, too, we want a broader representation of both sexes in local government, county councils, selections, councils, and so on in the Stortinget. We don't disagree about the goal, but we disagree about the way to go. The Progress Party and I don't think this will get the effect you're after, which is desirable. I believe that this will lead to more and more — both men and women — refusing to take on political responsibilities. Now you kind of prevent local government from having a continuous representation. The fact that you have the right to sit in a selection when you first enter a county council or a local government may make it a little more interesting when you're going to run a political operation. That paragraph will now be lifted. By forcing this through and closing all the possibilities for a gender bias, the continuous representation is not feasible. Then one has arranged for political work for perhaps too many not to be so interesting anymore. In addition, I believe that when a person now also has to have personal alternates for each selection to be selected in local government and county councils, this may result in a number of people – in various parties – being so burdened that the trend we have seen in the last election periods that more and more people refuse to re-election after a period is increasing. It means once again that we achieve the very opposite of what we're all looking for, simply getting a broader representation and making more people interested in politics, to take an interest and take a roof over the development of their municipality, in their state, and even in their country. Because it becomes so urgent and so labor-intensive, there is a risk that some people, if local authorities and county councils will try to keep up with the tradition of continuous representation, will be so heavily burdened that they will resign. Instead, one might start thinking: How are we going to get more – and more women – to engage and be interested in doing something? I also don't think it's right to run the almost illegal enterprise that the Equality Centre now has: to encourage women to cumulate and strike men. Organized cumulation and ironing are not allowed, but here it is even a nearly governmental body that calls for breaking election laws, as I see it. I don't think that's the way to go, either, because what has happened in all the contexts where there have been so-called organised ironing and cumulation actions? Very often we know it from small municipalities when communities start to iron and cumulate to secure their community – it goes back. At the next crossroads it strikes back. I also think that if you start with actions like this – unfortunately. And we haven't achieved what we're after, which is desirable, easy to get a broader representation, and we don't get the broader commitment to social development in our country either. One has to ask the question: why is there a falling interest in participating in politics? Why is there a falling interest also among men, and why is there so little interest among women in participating in political activity? I don't think it has anything to do with legal regulation. I think it has to do with attitudes, with motivation and organization, and not least with the time when meetings are held, with the possibility that women can find time, together with men, to be involved in political activity. I think it must be the way to go and not the way that a person is doing it. In the hope of creating more democracy, one actually creates with this promise of less democracy and less commitment. I thought it was worth saying I was sorry for that. I shall not delay the debate any longer. I shall address the proposal from the Progress Party and the Right in the Inner. O. No 47, and then say a little bit about Innst. O. No 44. What's a little funny, and it's always a bit funny, is that the majority in the committee is in agreement with the Progress Party in fact, but it works for me – the president gets to excuse me when I express my thoughts – that because the proposal comes from the Progress Party, one cannot go any further than saying one thing in the mind of the proposal. But to clarify this in the legal text so that it becomes clarifyingly clear, no, so far one won't go. One is completely unanimous, so I think it's amazing that the committee and the majority in this room could not be involved in this clarification, a clarification that the majority ask the Council of State and the Department to do through a circular. We all agree that we should have fewer and fewer regulations and circulars and that we should have clearer laws. We've seen in the last few years how the number of laws and regulations has increased, and we've said in the hall – I believe it's all about party, it's possible that SV isn't completely united, but at least all the other parties – that we want fewer laws and regulations and a clearer law so we don't have rules and circulars to interpret, to make a lot of sense. When we now have a chance to confirm this by law – instead of asking the Council of State to use its precious time to sit down and write new circulars – and with a pen stroke here in Stortinget we can save the Council of State and the Ministry for one day's work on writing a circular 'on a suitable occasion', it surprises me that the majority could not be with the Progress Party in getting this clarified by the legal text. In these words, I would also like to address our proposal at the Innst. O. No 44.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e159	The representative of Lodve Solholm has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e162	In the municipal law, which entered into force on 1 January 1993, it was a central objective to strengthen and further develop local self-government by giving municipalities and county councils greater freedom to organise their activities, and by reducing State supervision and control of the municipal sector. During the time that the municipal law has worked, it has been found that some regulations have been misdesigned, which has been neglected, and something has not worked according to the intention. For the landfill treatment of Ot.prp. No 58 for 1996-97 asked the Municipal Committee in Innst. O. No 8 for 1996-97 that some issues had to be considered more closely with a view to subsequent legislative changes. There are these questions that are now addressed in Ot.prp. No 20. In addition, the proposal provides for a fundamental review and assessment of the provisions of the Local Government Act on parliamentary governance in municipalities and county municipalities. There are three aspects I would like to touch on in my speech: the obligation of professional secrecy, the rules on equality and the changes to the rules on parliamentary governance. The changes in the rules on professional secrecy have been assessed, but no proposals for amendments have been made. Nevertheless, it is important to point out that the consultation round has revealed a great deal of uncertainty about the rules on professional secrecy. It is therefore necessary to develop guidance material to clarify the uncertainties of the confidentiality rules that exist. An overall committee agrees that no new rules are being promoted at this stage. With regard to equality rules, according to the municipal and county elections in 1995, there was some uncertainty about their understanding in the municipal law. The proposals for amendments shall clarify and align the legislation with the purpose of the provision of the Local Government Act. The Ministry's proposal for stricter criteria to derogate from the general rule of at least 40 pst. representation of both sexes shall be deviable only where it is provided for by law that the competent body must be chosen from among the members of the local or county council. This means that some parties will have to go beyond the local government and county council representatives in order to comply with the 40 pst rule in elections and committees. This will lead to more people becoming participants in local political everyday life, which, according to my concepts, will help to strengthen local democracy. At the same time, it is important to point out that this will not result in significant restrictions on freedom of organisation. The proposal is a concreteisation of the purpose of the law. It is very important to make it possible for both sexes to have a good opportunity to participate in local self-government. The proposal will help improve the representativeness of local elected bodies and, as I said, strengthen local democracy. There is no obstacle for municipalities to continuing with a system of comprehensive representation, but there may be cases where this principle needs to be modified by involving people who are not members of the local government in some selections or committees. The rapporteur explained the matter well, and pointed out an error on page 10 of the setting. At the same time, by way of subsidiary support from the Progress Party, a majority of the committee is formed to support the department that intercommunal governs under the municipal law § 27 may be exempted from the requirement of 40 pst. representation, because the composition of the board would result from elections in several municipalities. Furthermore, this is a form of company in which the provisions of the law are largely influenced by those of general company law. Neither the municipal law nor the rules of procedure will apply to intercommunal companies established under the law on intercommunal companies, which we have recently dealt with in Stortinget. It would be totally unreasonable to oblige a municipality to choose a representative from one particular sex, because another municipality has chosen the opposite sex. As regards the amendments to the rules on parliamentary governance, these have been made in order to adapt the rules to the specific issues arising from the introduction of a parliamentary form of governance. In relation to the procedure for introducing parliamentaryism, the majority will lower the requirements of majority voting in the legal provisions we have today, namely 2/3 majority voting, to a normal majority. Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal for changes to the procedural provisions. I would like to stress that the requirement of a 2/3 majority is something the Workers' Party has also agreed to when dealing with the municipal law earlier. It is important in a democracy to safeguard minority rights so that a majority cannot dictate the minority. We do not dispute that the parliamentary form of government in some municipalities will be involved in renewing local democracy. Today, however, Oslo is actually the only municipality in Europe governed by a purely parliamentary model. It goes without saying that the experience of such a scheme is limited. This, in our view, leads to the need for a broad consensus on the introduction of parliamentary governance. 2/3 majority will ensure such broad consensus. At the same time, I would like to point out that the proposed changes to the procedures for the reintroduction of traditional forms of governance ensure that municipalities have experience over such a long period that they can make a good impression on whether the parliamentary model is good or not for the municipality in question. The Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced in the vote that they do not agree with the majority's proposal to amend the second sentence of Section 18(1) and will therefore vote against the majority proposal. As regards Document No: 8:119 for 1997-98, which is about clarifying the delegation rules, supports the majority voting of the Christian People's Party. We can't see that it is necessary to legislate something that is already clear in the law. With regard to alerting by circulars, the changes in the law of the municipality will now mean that the municipalities will have to be informed of the changes that have taken place, and then it will be natural to mention what the Progress Party has pointed out. The Committee has not been notified of such a problem as identified in Document No. The 8th proposal that it should allegedly be. That is the reason not to make premature changes to the law when the position of the Presidency is already established in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e185	We are now holding a joint debate on two settings relating to local authorities. Understanding and use of the law are the subject of the legislation itself. In Ot.prp. No 20 and the subsequent setting takes up an obligation to deal with matters described in closed meeting. This question will come back in a more thorough way at a later point in time. But the hearing round has not uncovered much of an uncertain link to the understanding of the current right. The guide material directed at the populace is therefore a warning as a first step. The same medicine is prescribed in response to the Progress Party's proposal to clarify the delegation. This probably makes the majority more certain that the legal text is to settle down than the case is with regard to public administration obligations. Changes to the rules on parliamentary governance are a central theme of today's debate. The procedure for the exchange between the Presidency model and parliamentaryism has been a matter of its own. The Committee's plurality has created a legal non-discrimination between these forms of governance in the setting. This represents a monthly change in the municipality of Elva § 18. In the current law, the introduction of parliamentaryism must be dealt with for two periods. During the period of introduction, there must be, as you know, 2/3 multiples. Right, there's a multiple comment in the setting that this should be decided twice. It may have to be read with a liberal mind in the sense that at first reading it is enough that it is taken up as a voting theme. Today, simply a plurality can effectively abolish parliamentaryism at once for the next period. It is the Committee which is now in a non-discriminatory position across the board from the Ministry. Goes back to Ot.prp. No 20 page 66, we find the following under the Ministry's assessments and final proposals: ‘The protection of the minority against the possible maintenance of a parliamentary form of government which is unlucky from its point of view indicates that the rules should remain different on this point. ‘... Well, we're going to have a lot of respect for the minority in our democracy, but if this exceeds the plural, it's going to be wrong. Another matter which is worth noting is the Committee's clarification when it comes to parliamentary committee work. As the Municipal Committee now puts it, the nature of the work and not the status of the Committee so far should lead to the need for proceedings to be conducted in the open or behind closed doors. It will therefore be up to the Municipality of Oslo and, where appropriate, other succeeding municipalities with parliamentary boards to define their rules of procedure which satisfy the principle that preparatory work can be carried out behind closed doors, but the decisions will be taken in public. When it comes to unemployed leave, it would have been right for the Department to resolve the requirement for fixed-term job breaks for part-time politicians in its work. What everyone is sure about is that at the end of the four-year period, the employee must return to his normal job in order to satisfy any new leave rights. This is consistent with the obligation to accept choices and the logic there. Finally, a few words about what might involve some of the most. It is the intensification of the principles of equality in the municipality of El Salvador. Right doesn't believe that these relatively rigid intensification measures are the answer to the challenges of a local democracy with a time-laging commitment. We didn't think it reasonable either that a party fraction should deal with the loads from the missing balance in other batches when adding and ascending. Therefore, the right votes against the tightening properties and makes an old proposal to repeal Section 37 paragraph. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e205	I will first be able to record the SV's proposal, which is included in the setting. I'll try to focus on the main issues. The two themes that have been discussed most so far are the provisions on equality and the provisions on parliamentaryism. In the case of equality provisions, SV believes that they are important, but that in no way are these rules entirely designed to make the big difference. But it is that the gender equality work that has been carried out in this country and in other countries has not gone off. It has been the case that all proposals that have been promoted to improve equality have been voted down and countered by the right, by the right and by the Progress Party. And it's probably also that some of the arguments that are being put forward today are without trustworthiness. If you look at how the equality situation is, for example, in the Progress Party, it is such that almost only men are represented in that party, and then it is very difficult to believe that they should have some particularly credible and good methods of recruiting women and making it attractive for women to be involved in political activities. We're not treated equally, we're motivated differently, we're rewarded differently, we experience being included or excluded, even sometimes by old sex role patterns. So this is actually trying to do something active to change a situation. When I read the comments of the Progress Party on this – they say that by introducing strict sex quota provisions, as the majority wants, ‘decentness and suitability...give to sex’ – I have to ask if it is such that the Progress Party actually believes that men are more capable and more suitable than women. The reality is that we're actually over 50 pst. by the population, but is less represented in political bodies to facilitate and govern society for us. And the fact that women are particularly little represented in the organs of the Progress Party may mean that we're not fit to promote progress party politics. That might not be so weird. But I react in the way of saying, because that means that the Progress Party believes that when women are not represented, it is because they are not capable and suitable. We know that men are chosen because they are men. They've been for a long time, and we've actually had to get some measures to change this. Then there's someone who mentions continuous representation as a more important principle than the principle of equality. I'm one of the politicians who's been enjoying – and having similar – comprehensive representation, because I'm a very committed person who's wanted to be very active in politics. But I get completely different signals from almost everyone else who's not as political animals as I am, especially from women who say they can imagine participating in political activities if they let go of the journey as the continuous representation is, because that means you're being eaten with skin and hair and have to run politics around the clock. There's almost no one who wants to. I believe that the grip on the principle of comprehensive representation is one of the most important things now to let go of both women and also quite a number of men who might think of getting involved in politics, but cannot imagine spending their whole lives and all the leisure time saying to it. What the committee has done in this area, I am very pleased, because I believe that in this way we can significantly increase the breadth of political activity, both for women and men. That's probably what's important. So for the introduction of parliamentaryism and the rules around what the majority wants to change. So they want to adopt a common principle of majority voting when it is adopted. SV is positive and wants more municipalities, perhaps especially county municipalities, to try parliamentaryism. I have sail experience from it, sail if there was a system that was a little different than what it is now. Experience is consistently positive. I can reassure the Workers' Party that there is no fear that some politicians are going to be full-time politicians who have got the SV to say that we want to keep the rules as they are today. On the contrary, we see that the bureaucracy and the agency are gradually very schooled and up-to-date. They have to be – the population is too. There is certainly a greater risk that politicians will be given too difficult jobs and too little skills if almost all politicians are still to be hobbyists in an evening after a tiring working day. So I don't share the fear of all-day politicians, I actually think there's going to be more of them. But the reason why we, despite my very positive attitude towards parliamentaryism and the fact that we want to contribute to it, have wanted the rules to remain the way they are, is that we believe that the chance of success in a parliamentary system is much greater if there is a broad majority who want it. These are big conversions. I have discussed this in many municipalities and counties when I have been invited to talk about it both in my party and in other parties – because I have some experience of it – and scepticism is great in many against this new system. I therefore believe it is unwise to threaten this by a small majority, and that the chance of success in such a project – and I want to do that – is greater if a broad majority is behind and really wants us to do this. I believe that this can revitalise local democracy, that it makes responsibility visible, and that it makes position and opposition visible, and not least provides the small parties with the opportunity, where political agreements have been concluded in a majority formation, to have some means of pressuring their partners in cooperation. As it is now, local policy positions, the choice of rapporteur, etc., in the Presidency system are allocated once in the four-year period, and then there is really nothing to be threatened with, to put it this way, to keep a majority configuration together and in place. Therefore, we believe that this could be an exciting solution for many municipalities and county municipalities. So to the question of transparency, which has also been discussed: we want as much transparency as possible, that the introduction of parliamentaryism and the committee model should not automatically lead to more closedness, but that the transparency requirements of the committee processes can be set by the individual local authority. My recommendation would be that one do so, unless other laws make the meetings should be closed for taushets. We have made two proposals. I'm just going to go into one of them, and it's about appointing board members of intercommunal companies. On the basis of the draft legislative text, it is in a parliamentary model up to the City Council whether it is the Council or the City Council which is to choose representatives of municipal enterprises. The legal provision is a rule of chance, but it implies that the Council can also choose. If you look at how this is going to work in practice, in my opinion and in the opinion of the SV, it must be the Council that will have the opportunity to appoint representatives of the board of directors, because it must be the Council that is responsible for the operation of a municipal enterprise. Then there is a question of whether this should also apply to inter-communal enterprises. That's a discussion about it. In this respect, the Ministry’s letter of reply states: ‘If the local government could not place a municipal enterprise under the local council, this could result in the company’s board of directors and local councils being in practice co-ordinated and acquired overlapping competences. This, in turn, could lead to unclear powers and responsibilities between the Board of Governors and the Board of Directors of the undertaking. Moreover, if the Board of Governors could not choose the members of the Board of Directors, this confusion would be reinforced. ‘... The reason why we want this principle to apply to the appointment of board members of intercommunal companies is precisely this argument. We believe that the relationship between the competence of the local council and the competence of the local council can be inexhaustible and overlapping. We therefore recommend that the same can-declaration be applied to the appointment of board members to intercommunal companies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e236	Karin Andersen has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e239	The left joins the changing majority in this case with one exception. I would like to comment briefly on some of the points in the setting. The left is pleased that both the ministry and a unanimous committee refuse to introduce rules of professional secrecy for elected representatives, stressing the need for transparency and respect for democratic principles in this context. The Administrative Act takes account of the need to preserve confidentiality in the interests of human resources, privacy and critical private interests. The Left agrees that a review of the Administrative Act is being carried out and that professional secrecy in relation to the protection of heavy public interests is being assessed in this context. The left shall join the majority of the Committee in respect of the changes made to gender equality requirements. The Progress Party again demonstrates a lack of understanding of gender equality and the measures that have made us in Norway so far, despite all that we have in this area. In the setting, the lot says: ‘Requirements for gender representation basically mean that skill and fitness for a position must give way to sex. ‘... This reveals that the party has not fully understood the basic point: knowledge and suitability are equally shared between the sexes, but men and women represent different experiences, which must be part of the policy. Without awareness of it and without understanding of the mechanisms behind centuries of gender discrimination, gender equality is not achieved. The left is sceptical about the requirements for continuous representation and about the committee model as a municipal organisational reform. This has helped to restrict local democracy and to bring together power and influence on fewer hands. Many people with commitment and a desire to participate are left out, because their desire for action in a limited area and with limited time use has not been met, as many municipalities have organized themselves. We welcome the Committee's emphasis on the fact that no batch can be forced to implement requirements for comprehensive representation even if a majority adopts such a principle. The left subscribes to the minority's view of changing the requirement of a 2/3 majority vote for the introduction of parliamentaryism. The extent to which a drastic change in the form of the administration of a municipality or county municipality should be based on a broad consensus. The majority, the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party point out that a minority cannot stop a majority. Well, there is such a reason to believe that a scarce majority should not be able to put aside the interests of a minority in such a case, where the working conditions of the elected people are substantially changed, not least by the minority. Norwegian municipalities do not have two sets of administrations. It must be a precondition for a parliamentary form of government that the opposition also has access to a good administrative apparatus. In my opinion, parliamentarism in small municipalities can lead to increased bureaucracy and the misuse of resources in relation to other important services to be provided by the municipality. The Presidency principle is well-tested and represents a fundamental good form of democracy. It gives all elected representatives the opportunity to influence policy through arguments and constructive participation. In the local everyday life, this principle gives high legitimacy to political decisions, and is better than creating artificial bilaterals in local policy between a parliamentary majority and a minority. This does not mean that the Left is in principle opposed to parliamentaryism in some large municipalities and county municipalities, but so drastic changes in the form of government should not, in our view, be adopted by a narrow majority. We will therefore vote against the amendment of the law on this point, but we will otherwise join the majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e261	I'm very pleased with Innst. O. No 47, and will praise the Municipal Committee for a forward-looking work. However, when I ask for the floor, it is to comment and to the extent debate a municipal parliamentary system. I believe that a parliamentary system is very correct. It is a necessity to vitalize the rule of the people in the state and in the larger municipalities. For what is happening in the political systems at municipal and county level? The elected representatives feel that they do not have real political power, but are governed by directives and circulars – and not least by a comprehensive and highly educated and competent administration. The question arises as to whether the elected representatives have been overrun, and have not had time or legislation that has allowed them to take control back. In the Presidency system, it is the administration that promotes matters, with an attitude. In the parliamentary system, it is a political position in which the political parties that support the Council must express their political position. A sheep kind of hung the bell on the cat. One hears where the cat is. In the presidency system, the cat sits around without telling us where it is or what it wants. I understand that the smaller parties are not fighting for the introduction of a parliamentary system. The possibility of political horse trafficking is diminishing, and the possibility of always taking a populist position is decreasing. In a parliamentary system, the position and opposition are clarified, and everyone has to take responsibility and choose side. It is illogical when the Government believes that 2/3 majority is to be required to introduce a parliamentary form of governance and a simple majority to return to the Presidency system. One can, by a simple majority, actually lay down the entire municipality or join the municipality with another municipality. Isn't it more dramatic than introducing parliamentaryism? I believe that what is important is that you have confidence in the local People's Government and that every municipality has to choose the form of governance that suits it. In East Agder, the county council has had a difficult investigation of a parliamentary system. There's now a round in the political parties – I don't know the details, but I think it's already on its way to treatment in the system. In Arendal, the City Council has already decided to empower the new City Council to set up a parliamentary system. I believe that with the changes in the law that Odelstinget is now being invited to adopt, many states and municipalities will discover that the law gives them the possibility of political governance in a much better way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e277	I just want to make a brief comment on the changes in the municipal law that go on with gender representation. Gender equality can be fought in many arenas — one of the arenas is the political arena — through the devices of the law. But in principle I would say that there are those, for example. a woman, only by virtue of her sex, shall take precedence over political positions, while others, such as: a man shall experience his gender as being discriminated against in terms of his ability to conduct policies is a remarkable thing. It is not very democratic either. It is well that there is only a small click with women women who believe that women's desire to participate in the policy is increasing if they can force themselves to positions on the basis of these sex quota rules. In my view, such rules also give women a kind of psychological disability, where they feel inferior and have to have some kind of artificial breathing equipment in order to be able to conduct politics. Does anyone really think this increases women's interest in politics? Some people's uninhibited desire to and eager to fight for equality in all possible areas of life is almost beyond limits, and in particular, the gender equality struggle in politics, a major issue for a great many, looks like it. But many women have gradually become afraid to stand on the electoral lists, as some do not want to be pushed to a perhaps prominent political position against their own will, or when it happens alone, on the basis of the law, which imposes strict demands on gender representation. You can ask questions about what is in the changes we are dealing with, about whether it is right to go down on the lists, as Section 16 of the law says, and get women to meet the requirements of gender representation in the law, if it is such that the woman herself does not want this in any way. Such a kind of sex quota will force the woman into a position she may not want, and with such prospects, many women will reserve themselves against participating in the policy and, if necessary, still on electoral lists. Then I'd like to say a few words about Innst. O. No 44, on the preparation of the local delegation regulations. This case concerns the cases where the local government or county council has delegated the power of decision to the permanent committees. In such cases, no Presidency or County Committee shall be able to intervene and reverse a decision taken in a fixed sample, even if the Presidency or County Committee disagree with this Decision. The Committee agrees with the rapporteurs on almost all points and supports the points raised. The Committee agrees that § 10 paragraph of the Municipal Act. 2 needs to be made clearer, as the proposers point out, and it becomes quite clear that it is the municipal board that is the only overall body for the fixed sample sizes, and not the county committee or Presidency. It is regrettable that the Committee does not see the practicality of making this amendment as proposed here, but rather believes that the Ministry should, on an appropriate occasion, send an information letter to the municipalities and state that the legal text in Section 10 paragraph. 2 in the municipal law is being practised exactly as the proposers' intention has been. I believe that the clarification and clarification on which the Committee agrees with the proposers should be made clear in the law itself, and not only be the subject of a circular from the ministry. Such circulars also tend to be forgotten as quickly as they are read. That we have clear and understandable laws is important, and it is therefore strange that when there is a proposal to make a law clearer and clearer, in order to bring forward the intentions of the law in an easily understandable way, the majority of the committee says no – they are not actually concerned about this. We're just going to take note of that, and we're going to have to put our trust in the fact that this circular, when it has to be sent around, is read in the municipalities. But circulars are not the same as a legislative change, and the Committee should be more concerned about helping to create a precise and clear law when the occasion arises. It is all right that the majority of the Committee supports the content and intentions of this proposal, but it is all the more strange that not the same majority wants to get this consensus into a clear legislative text, which, after all, would be the best solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e294	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e297	The entry to Andersen's representative made me ask for the word in reply, because it's one of the greatest shows of historylessness and lack of respect for one half of the population that's been a long time since I've heard, even though I've heard the tendencies of many from that party. I think the post was revealing. I think it reveals that the Progress Party has no respect for women at all, at all, does not take seriously the competence that women hold, and it was a long defense for why he does not want women with it. I think that the representation of women in the Group by the Progress Party illustrates the view of the Progress Party on Women and Gender Equality in general. I would like to say that gender quotas have actually been one of the most important means of getting women into politics in most parties. I'm going to say that has led us to a better policy, and we've also got a better society, because I think, unlike the Progress Party, that the sense is fairly evenly distributed between women and men. Therefore, at least the Labour Party sees the value of both women and men being involved in political work. I want to ask the Progress Party and Andersen: why is the Progress Party so afraid of getting women's skills and women's knowledge into politics? Why are they so afraid to make things easier for them to happen, and not just for men with special opinions to determine the whole evolution?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e306	To what Sylvia Brustad brought here, I would say it's very incorrect the way she makes it. When it comes to respect for women in our party, it's absolutely high-ranking. We want women to be involved in politics, but that does not mean that they must be allocated to political spheres. We want equality between men and women on a natural basis, without special laws and special provisions for any gender. I actually think it is that many women themselves do not share the views expressed here by the representative Sylvia Brustad. I actually think that they want to be equal to the man in all areas of life, including politics. You can actually get a feeling of inferiority vis-à-vis the other sex if you have to resort to the law to manage to get there. So, in my view, quotaing that is gender-related is clearly unlucky. As I said, I think, in fact, yes, I would say that a majority of Norwegian women are so confident and themselves so conscious that they want to avoid these special provisions that are going to transfer women into politics. I just don't think democracy and politics are worth it. I think man and woman must remain silent. Regardless of the areas in which they are concerned, they should act as closely as possible. I just have to say that we are fundamentally disagreeable. I have nothing else to say besides that. We're going to have a lot of fight for the points of view that we had to have on that occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e318	I asked for a line because I got a little confused. The representative, Lodve Solholm, said that he and the Progress Party agreed, but that there was a factual disagreement about the funds. When the representative Torbjørn Andersen spoke, he spoke about artificial breathing and discrimination against men. Is this the vision of the Progress Party or the representative of Torbjørn Andersen? As I see it, men need women's competence. Men need women's experience, and men need women's participation. That's why it's necessary for men with allowances, so that we don't, with our usual greed, demand all the places for ourselves. We need quota to avoid being overrepresented. This would be unfortunate for local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e323	It's obvious that gender equality gives rise to a broad commitment. As I said in my previous answer, I think it is important that a participant on equal premises, that regardless of gender – whether male or female – we should relate to the same legislation, the same laws, and not have special advantages laid down in a law. That's what's my message in this context. I remember that there were some unfortunate results after the previous municipal and county elections, at least when it came to the county elections, where some men who had been asked for positions and positions were demolished because of this with gender quota. And many of them – including workers’ parties – regretted this law. So there are many in most of the batches that have concerns about the rules that now apply to sex quota.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e330	The representative Torbjørn Andersen represents a vision that is probably very special. I hope that it is also especially within his own party. I'm almost counting on it. When society tried to create a system where the experience of women, the history of women, the knowledge of women and the tradition of women were to contribute to social development, there was no idea. Now, if you're going to start to reverse this and actually end up in a situation where you give up this knowledge and this competence, I have to say that it's so original and so little thought that it's almost strange that it's being presented from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e337	I have to say I have little sense for the last line. My vision is nothing special. I actually think my view is shared by a majority of the women in this country. I actually think I have a cover to say that. To the extent that social development depends on the existence of gender-to-sex quota rules, I would like to ask: Where does the representative have this remarkable view? I must say that I fundamentally disagree with the views expressed in this chair. I stand by what I have said earlier in this debate, that gender equality must be formed as a natural interaction in society between men and women, and not as a result of a law that I deeply disagree with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e344	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e347	Let me start by saying that this replication caused me to feel put about 30 years back in time. Many of the views that have emerged here were fairly widespread at the time, and I do not overlook the fact that some of the points of view that have emerged now also historically will prove to be as polite to read as the debate that Stortinget took on whether women should be given voting rights in Norway, where men – that is, only that at the time in the Grand Duchy – stood out in a row and said that women themselves did not want to vote. But then back to the matter we're going to discuss. Municipalities and counties are living organisms and organisations. It is not surprising, therefore, that a new set of instruments such as the municipal law we now have needs to be regulated – or voted, in order to use a nice word – once in a while. The first round of adjustments to the Municipal Law of 1992 was adopted in 1997. This time I come to the Stortinget with proposals for amendments on three points: the rules on leave, the rules on equality – which have given special attention – and the rules governing municipal parliamentarianism. Let me first say a little bit about the permit rules. I am pleased that the Committee is in favour of adopting the proposal to extend the right of the elected representatives to leave from their general work of caring for the position of the People's Party. We hope that this can help improve the recruitment of this type of job. So little about the parliamentary rules. The proposal includes an overall review of the rules on parliamentary governance. There are many elements of this form of governance that cannot be governed by the application of legal rules – the political dynamics between the Council and the local government/communities cannot or should not be governed by a law. However, it is important to have the most clear and consensual rules for, among other things. changing the form of control and changing from one advice to another. This was the main point of view of the proposals. I note that the majority of the committee is somewhat more impatient than the government in terms of fully aligning parliamentary governance with the Presidency model. I am thinking, then, of the majority proposal that only ordinary majority voting should be required, even in the case of the introduction of parliamentary rule. I see clearly the points raised by the majority of the committees, but I sincerely believe that it would be of great importance for a municipality that chooses to move to parliamentary governance, that there is a broadest possible majority for it. But, of course, I take note of what the majority is now in favour of. So a little bit about the equality rules. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the Ministry's proposals for changes to the equality rules. The fact that both municipalities and county municipalities have considerable creative resources is hardly anything new. But they were going to find so many ways around the equality provisions in the municipal law, was more than I had been prepared for. The result is, of course, a hollowing out of the intentions behind the equality rules. Therefore, in the proposition some proposals have been made that are intended to seal these holes. Firstly, it is proposed to introduce a change in the rules which may strengthen the right to decide that the election of members of municipal bodies should be based on a comprehensive representation. If there is an overweight of men in the local government — that is, unfortunately, what is still the most common — the horizontal representation could result in the imbalance being transferred to all other political bodies in the municipality. Unless legal representation is provided for, the proposal provides only for the practice of complying with the rules on gender balance. The proposal also proposes that all municipal bodies be treated in the same way as equality rules. There are also proposals to regulate who should be entitled to submit lists. The aim is that political groupings should not split up in order to deliver more lists and thus circumvent equality rules. In the case of supplementary elections to elected bodies during the period, the possibility of improving the gender balance shall be used. Optional questions are complicated, but I'm going to make a little effort to clarify them. Elections to municipal samples take place either by majority or proportional elections. Multiple choices require unanimous decisions on the local council. In majority voting, you vote for candidates, not on lists. The candidates who receive the most votes are elected. If not both sexes are represented by at least 40 pst, the under-represented sex – and in some cases it may also be men – should move up until balance is reached. The result of this procedure is that there will be an even distribution and balance of the body selected. The problem is that majority voting cannot guarantee proportionate representation between the parties. The party that has most representatives in the local government will easily take all the places in the selection. Proportionate representation is an important and incorporated democratic principle underpinning our entire political system. It's not that it's just the largest parties that have to say anything. Therefore, according to the municipal law, no more than one representative of the local council is required to choose ratios. In the case of proportional selection, the places are allocated to the different groupings according to a separate distribution key. The choice is made by each grouping presenting its own list proposals. The municipal law has rules that it should be at least 40 pst. representation of each sex on the list proposals. After calculating the number of places to be included in a list, places shall be distributed as widely as possible between male and female candidates on the list. Where appropriate, candidates are brought up in the individual list. Representation by at least 40 pst. by both women and men, if there are two, four or more places to be distributed. But if the list only gets one place, it has to be 100 pst. of one sex. If the list gets three places, the percentage distribution can never be evener than 33.3 and 66.6 pst. There will be an inevitable imbalance that will reproduce further to the sample. I just think that we have to realize that the principle of equal representation is not entirely consistent with the principle of proportional representation. I am, for my part, of the opinion that the principle of proportionality should weigh more heavily. Let me also comment on what several representatives have had to say, namely the gender equality rules and intercommunal companies. Let me make it clear that when the municipalities make elections to the intercommunal authorities under Section 27 of the municipal law, the same rules apply as when they choose bodies within the municipality. An inevitable imbalance in each municipality will continue to flourish to the intercommunal government. The Storting has recently passed a law on intercommunal companies. Such companies must be segregated from intercommunal governments established under the Local Government Act § 27. Governments established under the municipal law are, of course, governed by the municipal law. An intercommunal company established under the law on intercommunal companies is a separate company form and regulated by this law – not the municipal law. Otherwise, I have noticed that the majority's concern that elected representatives of municipalities who practise comprehensive representation are subject to a heavy workload. I share this concern. I want the attention directed towards it in the future. In my opinion, however, it should have to be found to have very negative consequences before I want to initiate a restriction in the form of legislation on the ability of municipalities to use a comprehensive representation. The principle of local freedom of organisation is one of the foundations of the municipal law. Moreover, as the majority points out, the individual parties are not bound by the majority’s wish for such an organisation. Let me also make some comments on Document No. The 8th motion by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, I have noticed that the majority of the committee wants to reject the proposal. I think that's wise. I do not believe that we have served to supplement the municipal law with explanatory supplements, when the legal text is already clear and comprehensive. I am afraid that such a lawmaking technique will create confusion rather than clarify what is in force. There may be a need to make the municipalities better aware of the current situation in this area. When Stortinget has treated Ot.prp. No 20 with proposals for amendments to the municipal law, the department will inform about the legislative changes in a circular. Here, too, the issues underlying Document No will be addressed. The 8th proposal. The relationship between the Presidency and other fixed selections is likely to change in many municipalities. Increasingly, the right to stand before the local government is added to bodies other than the Presidency. A development in such a direction may help to revitalise the work of other samples and make the function of the sample more equivalent to that of the Presidency. Opinions that the Presidency is self-written as a committee of the local government are probably about to be abandoned in many places. Some municipalities also choose to maintain a traditional model with the Presidency as the sole instigating body of the local government. I see no need to seek to influence the development in one direction or another. In line with the principles set out in the Local Government Act, each municipality must itself identify the form of organisation it sees best served. In this context, in my view, it would be a wrong signal to seek to regulate these mechanisms more closely in the municipal law. Finally, let me make it clear that I will of course follow up the law in line with what I have outlined in the letter sent to the committee. It was specifically requested, I think, by the rapporteur on the matter. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for his good work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e413	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e416	I believe that the Council of State and the Labour Party are equally concerned that we should have a good local democracy. And I believe that the Council of State and the Workers' Party agree that government control and control of the municipalities should be reduced. In any case, the Council of State has expressed it many times, not least in the last one and a half years she has been a municipal minister. And the 148 rapporteurs of the Central Party are very concerned about local self-government and that they can decide as much as possible. We know that there are problems with electoral participation. The Council of State is also concerned about this, and many proposals have been made which may lead to an improvement in electoral participation. However, on one point – the introduction of parliamentaryism, and the requirement of a simple majority – the Council of State does not agree that there is one way to get more people to go to the polls. Is it not the case that it is important to make the political decisions responsible, and that voters often have great difficulty in knowing who is responsible and who makes both the good and the bad decisions? Does not the Council of State think that the introduction of parliamentaryism can stimulate the electoral interest? We know that political processes are becoming more and more complicated, and that it can be difficult to have a clear overview. If we get to a city government or a county government that is responsible for what is being done, with an opposition that can help place responsibility, doesn't the council believe that there will be a significant change in getting up the election?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e421	I'm busy with local self-government. I am also concerned that we should give municipalities and county municipalities such freedom of action that it feels both interesting and meaningful to spend time on this work. I think that's a prerequisite for us to be able to recruit engaged and skilled politicians to both municipalities and county councils in the future. But I'm in doubt that by introducing parliamentaryism, saying with a pen stroke, we will solve all the problems. Actually, I don't think it's that simple. I think it's right, as Signe Eye says, that very many common voters who are not particularly concerned with politics, often are not aware of who is in the local government or county council. However, if these politicians become more clear in the media by introducing parliamentaryism, I am somewhat uncertain about it. I believe that it will be the leader, whether it is the county rapporteur in the traditional role and model – or the rapporteur for that part – or whether it is the mayor or the rapporteur, in the system we have in Oslo. So I am not as convinced as Signe Eye is, clearly, that by introducing parliamentaryism we will increase the interest in municipal work and municipal government. I think it has more to say that from the collapse and government, we end up with much of the detailed regulation we are dealing with, no matter what form of government – parliamentary or other – the municipalities have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e428	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e431	The representative, Gunnar Halvor, from the Workers' Party, has, in my opinion, made a very good contribution to parliamentaryism, but he left the impression that small parties – and unfortunately no large party – are against parliamentaryism. That's not right. We want to keep the implementing rules as they are now, and I have argued for that. I believe that the possibility of increasing political governance in municipalities and county municipalities is greater in parliamentaryism. I think that in the long term, politicians in the municipality in position or opposition will be able to become clearer in such a system, but not exactly when you're going to introduce it – right in the phase when you're going to decide whether to have it or not, it won't contribute to it. But one problem has not been mentioned today. What is different in the municipal sector than in the Storting and the system at national level is that local government has significantly less means of overcoming sea pollution than is the case, for example. has in Stortinget. There's more to it than that. The municipalities are run a lot, and the county councils are, in my opinion, very overrun and have few options for seafaring to choose so much. It is a problem, because if one is to say in a way that people are going to see who is responsible for how things stand in this municipality, and then one-sidedly pointing at the Council or the rapporteur, it is, in my view, wrong, because there are so many assumptions made by others, and especially by the Stortinget. We also know, we who sit here, that there are some people who also put some leads for us that sometimes make our gambling space more limited than we want, and that makes it impossible for us to take a hundred percent responsibility for absolutely everything that happens, because we simply don't have the means and the ability to control everything that happens. So I'm a little afraid that you're going to make this a debate that it's just the local government or just those in the county who are responsible for everything that's going on. It's not like that. So I'm just going to say a few words to the Progress Party, which has been up again and talked about equality. Clearly, it is not on their hearts at all. The representative Torbjørn Andersen is talking about a natural interaction between the sexes, which is supposed to make gender equality possible. Then you just have to look at the story, look at all the countries around the world, and see if in any country that has let the natural interaction that I then understand is going to unfold is such that it has contributed to women having a legitimate share of representation, power and influence. The answer is unequivocally no – it has not happened. Then there's only one question left: Does the Progress Party think it's okay? Is it the way they write in their comments, that they believe that those women who do not get into this competition, who are so different and so uneven, are actually not suitable or of the qualities to which they are going? It seems that the Progress Party is trying to produce it as if it's a bit fluttered with quotaing. I might agree that it might be a little awkward -- it must be embarrassing for a society that you can't sort this out another way. But we really have not made that clear! So this is a way to make everyone look the same. That's what this is about. This is one of many instruments that must be used to keep the same, because as it is now, the women do not actually let go of it, because, as the representative Torbjørn Andersen said, there are some men who feel they have passed by and think this is too bad, so we can't have it that way. I could therefore imagine addressing a specific question to the Progress Party: do they think that when women are not represented in important positions, that's the way society is and has been organized, because they simply don't possess the qualities needed to hold them? If the Progress Party does not mean it, will something be done with it at all? Or are you going to keep using the same methods, which have always shown that women do not get the influence that they have in their number, their wits and their senses, and that the whole society will benefit from?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e445	No more people have asked for the floor to speak on the matter. 1 and 2. [[Votation, see pages 373 and 377]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e459	I only want to show the configuration from the committee, where there is a minority supporting Document No. The 8th proposal. There are two errors that need to be corrected. On page 1, the first paragraph to be referred to is not 69, but 60. The same applies to page 2. The first paragraph shown in the second column should also be 60, not 69, as it says. The majority believe that the new municipal law provided for a management audit that requires a high level of knowledge of local administration, and concluded that the municipal audit should be a secretary of the control selection. We have also reduced the audit district from 208 in 1991 to 85 in 1998. These are so many changes that the majority in the committee think this should work over time before any adjustments – adjustments that it might be appropriate to make. I would also like to point out, as stated in the setting, that the NIBR and the Municipal Auditor's Association have regular assessments of the scheme, so that we may be able to provide a review of the municipal audit system later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e472	The representative Olaf Gedrem has informed about the corrections made to pages 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e475	In this case, the right has promoted a proposal for greater freedom for municipalities to choose audit, including private ones. The proposal is a natural follow-up of the Right's desire to give municipalities greater autonomy. Today's municipal law § 60 nr. 3 indicates that audits are to be carried out by the municipal or county audit itself. The right, together with the Progress Party, opens in the setting to allow for the purchase of private audit services. The right hand party and the Progress Party refer to the competence of the municipalities themselves and should be given the opportunity to choose audit solutions, as long as the legislation on municipal audit and the requirements on audit professional competence are followed. The right has recorded that the Ministry argues against the proposal by letter to the Committee, partly because it is claimed to be a complex reform, partly because there is an evaluation of the system of municipal self-control — well and mark outside the ministry. For its part, the right cannot see that this is a heavy enough argument to justify a ban on the autonomy of municipalities in order to assess these conditions. The right will show that the schemes are not tested in comparable countries, but that freedom of choice is actually practised in both Sweden and Denmark. The right notes that for the majority of the Odelstinget, the Workers' Party and the government parties, the goodwill towards municipal autonomy is high in non-committal contexts, but the follow-up is weak, as this attitude is an example. I am referring to the fact that, in the course of last year's deliberation of the Mayor's statement on local self-government, the right was given a majority for the following formulation: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a specific programme for the revision of all sectoral legislation that imposes detailed requirements on municipalities. ‘... The Government presented in the 1999 Community Economic Proposition on page 129 for the follow-up to this proposal. For the first time, the Proposition referred to the Declaration of Adults, under the heading ‘Local Maritime Administration’: ‘The scope of retail regulation should be reduced, inter alia: by simplifying laws and regulations. A real municipal maritime administration means that municipalities can choose different solutions according to local needs. However, national standard requirements will be necessary in key areas. ‘... This is made more concrete in the Waxenås Declaration to apply, inter alia. the health and social sector, environment, education and equality. Secondly, the same proposition shows that on 5 March 1998 the Government laid down guidelines for the operation of State legislation. And in those guidelines, point (d) states: ‘Bundes rules on the performance of municipal or county services production or management shall be available only in areas where legal certainty, equality or other national considerations so require. Departments and Directorates should use, as far as possible, guidance and dissemination of good examples as a method. ‘... The right cannot see that the Government's guidelines have been followed up in the Ministry's recommendation to the Municipal Committee in this case, either in the government parties' positions in the vote. Our disappointment is especially directed at the Christian People's Party, as at the treatment of the Inner East. O. No 95 for 1991-92 on new municipal law was in agreement with the Right and the Progressive Party on a proposal similar to that dealt with by Odelstinget in this case. The attitude of odelsting is disappointing, however, because the Right notes that the majority of its comments do not object in principle to allowing the municipal autonomy to include the freedom to choose audit. I take this up on behalf of the Right and the Advance Party the proposal referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e508	The representative Lars Arne Ryssdal has drawn up the proposal he referred to. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 377]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e518	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 - 3.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e524	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2 and 3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The suggestion has been entered in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e597	The Progress Party and the Right have warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e615	The Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e695	The President will now refer to voting § 29(3).
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e711	Here the Progress Party has notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e721	The President will then vote on the rest of the points in Section 29 and on Paragraphs 36 to 38.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e788	The Progress Party and the Right have warned that they are going against the referenced paragraphs. Before we go to voting on the vote, the President will vote on proposal No. 1 and 2. Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party says: ‘Section 36(1) is replaced by the following:The choice is made on the basis of pre-submitted lists with proposals for candidates. Batches or batches of groups represented in the selection body may submit only one list proposal each. The list may contain up to twice the number of different names to be chosen for members. Candidates from a lot or group of parties who make their own list proposals or who submit joint list proposals together with other lots or pairs of ten groups may be listed on other list proposals. However, this applies only if the list proposal for the lot or group of lots to which the candidate concerned belongs meets the requirements for equal opportunities laid down in the Local Government Act. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e806	The President will then vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Right: ‘Section 37 of the Community Act. the third paragraph is deleted; No. 4 becomes a new paragraph. 3rd@item: inlistbox ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e822	The referenced paragraphs, § 29 to 38, are then rejected. Here you have the Progress Party and the Right, notifying you that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e984	The President will then vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, to the law of intercommunal companies. The proposal reads as follows: «The law on intermunicipal companies makes the following change: § 6 new fifth paragraph shall be replaced by the following:In municipalities and county councils with parliament taric form of government, the local government or county council itself may provide for the appointment of representatives by the council. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e1012	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e1019	The law decision will be sent to Create the thing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e1026	During the debate, Mr Solholm presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e1056	It shall be replaced by the opinion of the Committee and the proposal of the Party of Progress.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e1070	During the debate, Mr Ryssdal presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on amendments to the Law of 25 September 1992 No 107 on municipalities and counties [[municipal law]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e1124	Alternative to the advice of the Committee and the proposal of the Party of Progress and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11-lower.ana.ud381e1140	There is no record available.
