ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e73	The representative of Ursula Evje will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e76	On behalf of Carl I. Hagen, Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to amend the Law of 14 June 1985 No. 73 on grants to primary private schools and private schools providing secondary education [[Private School Act]] The background to the proposal is that the law is clearly discriminatory as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e83	The legislative proposal with that comment will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e95	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 745]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e109	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e116	The development of the extent of violent crime is gloomy. National statistics showed an increase in body damage with a knife of 15 pst. from the first half of 1997 to the first half of 1998. Reported bodily damage with firearms doubled in the same period. Announced threats with knife sessions of 18 pst., and threats with firearms increased by 36 pst. The statistics of the Oslo Police show the same trend. The milder violence, the physical insults, which make up the largest number, goes down, while the more severe violence, the body damage, increases. We can say that the violence cases are getting fewer, while the violence is getting more severe and more often includes the use of weapons. It was therefore quite appropriate that last summer the national attorney took an initiative to prevent increased use of weapons. If several of the weapons can be seized in advance, life and health will be saved. To this end, the right supported the role of the national lawyer and, in the autumn, presented a proposal, Document No. 8:18 for 1998-99, where the government was asked to submit a bill on this. Today it has the support of all the parties in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. It has been properly discussed which law the search provisions should enter into and how the legislative wording should sound. The Advocate General first suggested that the provision should be laid down in the Criminal Procedures Act, but the bill expressly states that the Advocate General later concluded that the most appropriate provision of the Police Act is to be made more limited than the original proposal, while retaining the desired effect of the bill. The most important thing about the recast legal formulation is that it draws up some clarifications as to which situations and where search can take place, so that there is no impression that search can happen arbitrarily. This is important because the European Convention on Human Rights opens up for investigation as long as it takes place in accordance with objective and verifiable criteria. The whole committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, has argued that both the national lawyer and the ministry consider the legislative draft submitted, with some improvements on the part of the committee, to be the right way to legislate for increased scope for investigation. This is particularly mentioned, because the Advance Party has nevertheless chosen to maintain the First Advocate's proposal. It is positive that the State Council of Dørum, at the request of the Committee, got this matter out before the summer. It is also positive that the Council of State, through the round of consultations held in Police Norway, has listened to the objections raised and that part of it has been included in the Ministry's proposals. In addition, the Judicial Committee has made clear its views on how the law should be understood so that the law can be applied. It is the purpose of the law that it should be used. In two areas, therefore, the Justice Committee has wanted a change in the legal text, and I am happy to do so in agreement with the Government Parties and the Council of State. We remove the absolute requirement to use hand-held metal detectors, while saying that this ‘preferably’ will be the most gentle and effective way to perform the search. It is clear that in some situations, for example: where the weapon is a wooden weapon, it would not be appropriate with a metal detector. Then it must be opening up to common sense. Furthermore, the Judicial Committee states that consent to search must be obtained for more than one person at a time, in order to change the legal text from ‘one person’ to ‘person’. On this basis, I believe that the concerns raised by police Norway, Kripos and the national lawyer during the hearing have now been taken into account in the legislative proposal available. In addition, the Judicial Committee stresses that the police must use their general access to search according to § 7 and 10 of the Police Act. The experience of the Oslo Police Chamber is that they significantly increased their weapons seizures after new procedures were put in place for the application of current legal provisions. The Committee supports the use of existing legislation by the Oslo Police and stresses the need for other policy-makers to be aware of the opportunities available here, as well as the new legislative paragraph. The Judicial Committee assumes that practical information on good experience is disseminated from one police chamber to another and that the Ministry of Justice contributes to this. Against this background, the Stortinget today, with the unanimous support of the Judicial Committee, adopts an extended access to the search for weapons. This is done in full within the provisions of the EMC and will be an instrument to combat serious violence and increase the security of people most. I recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e154	The struggle for a safer society and against crime is very central to the Workers' Party. In several cases currently under consideration by the Judicial Committee during this period, this has been the starting point. The joy is that the Committee has been very much in agreement on these matters, either in the form of an overall committee or by a clear majority. On several occasions, the Committee has taken the lead in the field of violence crime, including: stated clearly that the punishment for violence against children, moral crimes and gross violence should be intensified and that the fight against violence must be one of the highest priority areas of criminal policy. Furthermore, a majority have specifically said that the level of penalties for intentional killing and rape is generally too low. Recurrent crime has also been put in focus. The size was discussed on 4 May this year Document No. 8:12 for 1998-99 on this topic, and provided guidance on what can and must be done to get the most active repeaters out of circulation. Another important issue is the treatment of Ot.prp. No 64 on exploration methods, on which the Committee is scheduled to give its opinion in October of this autumn. Today, it is a matter of giving the police extended opportunities to investigate whether people carry guns in a public place. Two Document No. Eight proposals, from the Right and the Advance Party, respectively, have also been promoted on this issue. In view of the work of the Ministry of Justice, the opinions of the police and not least those of the national lawyer, the majority, with the exception of the Advancement Party, have good reason to believe that the intentions of these two proposals are within the majority position. The fact that the Progress Party will continue its symbolic policy was not unexpected, but unnecessary given the possibility of today's suspension giving the police a visit. The rapporteur has given a good presentation of the content of the case and the view of the majority, so it is therefore unnecessary to repeat this. With the clarifications and adjustments made by the Committee through comments, I believe that we have got an even better starting point for meeting the violence in public places, especially in some urban environments, where the danger of the use of weapons is present. The relationship to privacy is central when it comes to body searches. The father, among others For ethnic discrimination is present. The Workers' Party considers it reassuring that the Data Protection Authority has given a positive opinion on the proposal and that the draft law is in line with the European Convention on Human Rights. Another important point, as several hearing bodies say, is that the police are taking seriously the training of the officials and women who are going to conduct a visit – something I have confidence in will be done. Otherwise, I think the opinions of the various police officers are clear that they want this extended possibility of visitation provided by the new Section 10(a) of the Police Act. However, it is worth noting that the Oslo Police Chamber's opinion that because of an internal directive within the current provisions of Sections 7 and 10 of the Police Act, they have had a significant increase in the number of knife seizures in the last half of 1998. This shows that there is also the possibility by today's law to make significant seizures, which was also covered by the case-rapporteur. All in all, I hope that we now have a change in the police law that serves its purpose. I believe, like the majority in the committee position, that it will be very important to add to practical and unbureaucratic procedures. Since this is a temporary law, initially applicable for three years, it will be possible for the Storting to make changes if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e182	Let's assume that a police patrol is observing a bunch of young people who the police positively know belong to a criminal youth community, walking down the Hegdehaugsweg in Oslo. The police have reason to believe that they are carrying knives illegally, but that it is not a probability overweight. Should the police then have the opportunity to stop these young people, check whether they are walking with knives and, if necessary, retracting the knives, so that the risk of these young people ending up as violent, in the worst case, killers later in the evening is reduced? Yes, I am convinced that more than 90 pst. by the Norwegian population. But no, the Minister of Justice says. No, Kristin Krohn Devold and Right. Just the Progress Party means yes. Today, the right vote on two proposals from the Progress Party which would both make such a search possible. Instead, the Right supports a proposal that limits access to visits to ‘situations or places where violence is easily experienced’. It is a proposal that, for example, the Chief of Police in Stavanger believes has so many limitations that the home will hardly be used at all. At the top of it all, the Right Leader of the Justice Committee believes that this proposal from the Government will make people feel more secure. The proposal of the Progress Party to amend Section 193 of the Criminal Procedures Act and Section 10 of the Police Act does not contain as many restrictions as Right-wing wishes and is in line with the National Attorney's proposal in a letter to the Ministry of Justice dated 1 July 1998. The proposals of the Progress Party will provide the police with the basis of both the Criminal Procedures Act and the Police Act to carry out searches and visits without the likelihood of a person carrying out illegal weapons. Ransaking could be carried out by a police officer without a prior decision by the prosecution authority and could thus be carried out quickly and efficiently when the need is present, in contrast to the hopeless proposal that the government parties, the Labour Party and the Right are now providing their support. Why is this proposal almost worthless? Firstly, the police officer or his deputy must give prior authorisation for the visit in a specific area and period of time. Secondly, the visit can only be carried out in situations or in places where violence is easily experienced, meaning either named streets and places or outside restaurants, in taxi cows and the like. Thirdly, the police must preferably carry a metal detector to be used during the visit. What about the youth walking down the hedgehog road in Oslo on the way to the center with knives and guns in the jacket room? They are hardly in a street or in a place where violence is carried out experientially easily. Maybe they can be stopped as they pass a restaurant, because that's where the committee majority believes that violence takes place experientially. But in that case, the chief of police must have given prior authorisation. And what happens if the police patrol doesn't bring their technical aids in the car? It is certainly not surprising that the police officer in Stavanger is “something skeptical about achieving the desired effect and whether the home will be used at all”. In the light of the proposals made by the Progressive Party, which are identical to the first draft drawn up by the Advocate General in his letter to the Ministry of Justice, the majority's proposal kicks the police out of the hook. People can now feel safer," said Höres Kristin Krohn Devold to the Norwegian Telegram Bureau. That's a pretty incredible statement. On the contrary – with such politicians, people should feel insecure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e203	The President assumes that Jan Simonsen will also present the proposal included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e206	Yeah, both of you.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e211	Jan Simonsen has then taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e214	The Christian People's Party welcomes the fact that the police now have an extended access to investigate whether people carry guns in public places. The temporary law amending the police law to be adopted today is a new tool for the police and is intended as the main purpose of preventing criminal offences. The proposal for a visit could be an important tool in the fight against certain forms of urban crime and also where planned actions may have a specific mole as security-creating and preventive measures. With the development of the rest of the law on the tightening of weapons laws and a knife ban in criminal law, this extended visitation home is a natural follow-up that can help to increase the possibility of detection of illegal possession of weapons. The law shall apply for a period of three years and evaluation shall be carried out in order to gather experience gained along the way with the new provision. Following a series of serious abuses, the Government took an initiative in the summer of 1998, and former Minister of Justice Aure invited measures against violence. It was on this basis that the national lawyer made his proposal in a letter of 1 July 1998 to extend the scope of investigation into whether persons carry weapons in a public place. There were then two proposals: primarily a provision on the investigation provided for in the Criminal Procedures Act; alternatively, a provision on the visitation provided for in the Police Act. In a subsequent letter, in August 1998, the Rikslawyer concluded that the most appropriate approach would be to design a visitation rule under the police law rather than a search clause under the Criminal Procedures Act. Ransacking is a criminal tool and is used as part of an investigation into a criminal offence. The visitation rule is given as a precautionary measure as part of police efforts to maintain order and order. In this case, it is precisely the maintenance of order and order that is the main purpose, and it is therefore natural, as the committee majority has indicated, that a change should be made here with a new section 10a of the police law. The relationship with the European Convention on Human Rights is very important in this matter. Just because increased access to visitation is an intervention in the private sphere of the individual, access must be justified and limited in such a way that it cannot be affected by privacy interests and the Human Rights Convention. The Court of Justice has called for the legislation to have mechanisms to ensure that the intervention does not become arbitrary. Here, the Christian People's Party believes that it is very important to include in the provision that authorisation to conduct a visit must be given in advance by the police chief or his deputy, and that a visit can be made in a specified area and period of time. If, in other cases, a police officer finds reason to visit a person, consent must be obtained on a case-by-case basis before the visit is carried out and the consent must be recorded in writing. Specific training is a prerequisite for a police officer to carry out visits in compliance with this provision. It is important to ensure that access to the visit is provided with the intended effect. The relationship with individual groups must be taken into account here, and an evaluation should consider whether this law has had effects which indicate that individual groups have been disproportionately burdened since the entry into force of the law. It is also necessary to safeguard the interests of minors and to ensure that this group can develop a good relationship with the police. Children and minors must perceive any intervention in their presence or directly against their person as a measure designed to protect their interests. This requires a deliberate attitude on the part of the police, also in view of the fact that fundamental rights under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child are not violated. Some have stated during the consultation that it is doubtful whether an extension of the law is necessary. The current rules of the Criminal Procedures Act and the Police Act are then considered sufficient for the police to conduct a visit. I therefore believe that this must be included in the checklist when evaluating this scheme, but would point out here that it is important that concrete action be taken to reduce destructive trends in society. Such a temporary extension of the law as referred to here is a constructive attempt to find effective working tools. The issue of violence is complex and cannot be solved with a few measures. It is the whole and the overall measures that can reverse the negative development, and this is one of many steps that are being taken in the work of a safer society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e240	The issue we are dealing with today, with proposals for a temporary law amending the police law, is directly caused by serious cases of violence in public places. Fighting violent crime has been on the political agenda for a long time, and all parties on the Stortinget have been concerned about how one can mobilize to stop this unfortunate development. Several of the cases of violence have been related to the fact that the perpetrator is in possession of the firearms or punitive weapons put into service when a situation arises in which they react negatively for some reason. A central theme that has been addressed in the fight against violent crime has been whether the police have had sufficient legal basis or instruments to intervene. In the summer of 1998, the National Advocate-General proposed an extended access to investigate whether persons carry weapons in a public place — a change in criminal proceedings law, which was subsequently amended and incorporated into the police law. Various Document Nos were also promoted. 8 proposals with corresponding proposals for amendments. In the wake of the media debate and not least the opinions of some justice politicians at Stortinget, where the current government was almost accused of opposing extended access to visitation, it came as a surprise that Oslo’s chief police officer so unequivocally concluded that under the current provisions of the police law §7 and §10, police can visit persons arrested in connection with the fear that the person would disrupt public order. The police officer stresses that these provisions give the police wide access to investigate whether a person carries weapons. She goes on to say in the Oslo police district hearing response that it is only in exceptional cases that the suspicion criterion in the police law is not sufficient. We are also aware that other police officers have a different opinion as to whether the legal basis is sufficient, but I choose to attach trust to the head of the largest police district in the country in relation to using the home of the police law sections 7 and 10 for an extended visit. In the Central Party, we are pleased that there is now a political majority in favour of the Government's proposal to extend access to the search of persons in congested environments to search for knives, firearms and other items that can be used to harm people, this being that such access will give an important signal effect and could itself be positive and preventive. By providing such extended homes as have been proposed, one shall also be aware that there is a risk of abuse. Persons will undoubtedly be subjected to search/visitation without possession of weapons. It is therefore important to prevent the risk of abuse by means of complaints and subsequent controls, as well as the necessary instruction and training of police officers. Finally, I would like to commend the Department for good political craftsmanship, and for the prompt manifestation in Ot.prp of the signals that have come from professional and political teams. No 79 for 1998-99, with proposals for which the vote shows that there is a great deal of support. It makes visible, in my opinion, the government's will and the power of action in relation to the important task of combating violent crime. In the end, the representative Simonsen has excused me, but I trust the chief of Oslo's police when she states that according to the police law, §7 and 10, plus the proposed changes that will get a majority here today, she has the tools to do the job that we all want her to do. The representative Simonsen's description of the situation, where he says that he doesn't believe Oslo's chief of police when she says that the means she has are sufficient, I think it's more an expression that the representative Simonsen and his party have recently felt that they are on the defensive in terms of having the hegemonics in the criminal policy debate, and that they feel they have to do something dramatic. I think that's the background of the picture he's trying to create.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e268	SV wants the police to be able to enforce effectively the laws and restrictions that exist in relation to both firearms and firearms. If it is that one today does not have legislation that adequately provides these opportunities, then we are also of the opinion that one must be able to try new measures. If a person with new measures can reduce the use of violence and get more effective seizures of illegal weapons, it will be important for the population to feel safer out in public space, both in the daytime and in the evening. At the same time, SV is concerned to point out that the police officer in Oslo in his statements of January this year says that according to the current provisions of the Police Act §7 and §10, the police can conduct a visit to persons arrested in connection with the fear that the person will interfere with public order and order. These provisions allow the police to investigate whether a person carries weapons and, as is currently the case, this provision can often be used by police officers in Oslo, also for prevention purposes. The Oslo Police Internal Directive on the active enforcement of the knife ban has resulted in a significant increase in knife seizures in the last half of 1998, and the law enforcement force provides feedback that the applicable provisions will normally be satisfactory. When SV will now support the proposal for the temporary extension of the right of visitation, it is also based on the fact that the legal paragraph is to be temporary and limited to three years. The adoption of a temporary legal paragraph will make it possible to see the effect, while at the same time promising follow-up and evaluation of the new provision. During this three-year period, SV wants to assess the benefits of increased access to visitation against the experience of the Oslo police force today using the police law §7 and §10. We are also concerned with the views expressed in the hearing opinions of the Contact Committee between immigrants and authorities, the Anti-racist Centres, the Centres against ethnic discrimination and the Organisation against Public Discrimination. These organisations point to the danger of abuse and that minority groups in Norway feel that police force is being exercised with less legal certainty for them than for the rest of the population. In this respect, the exercise of the legislative amendment must be carried out in such a way that no report is given to the minority groups that they feel particularly hung or persecuted. SV is also strongly concerned with the limitations in relation to Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and, in this context, demonstrates the hearing opinions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It points out that it is crucial for the law’s view that guarantees against abuse have been incorporated in terms of the possibility for authorities to conduct a visit. This has been added to the new paragraph and must be followed carefully. With these clarifications, we will vote in favour of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e284	Law on temporary change to the police law — extended access to visitation — which Odelstinget is now examining will extend the police’s access to investigate whether persons carry weapons in public places. The new provision of Section 10a of the Police Act is proposed to apply for three years. The fight for a safer society and against crime is one of the main areas of government intervention. It is a particular challenge here to identify instruments such as: may face violence in public places, especially in some urban environments, where weapons are used. In this way, the law will be an important part of the general government’s work to prevent and combat crime. In the summer of 1998, on the basis of several serious violence episodes, the Government took the initiative to bring a broad set of measures against violence. As part of this work, Minister of Justice Aud-Inger invited Aure to take action against violence. In this context, the national lawyer proposed an extended access to investigate whether persons carry weapons in a public place. On 5 February 1999, the Ministry of Justice sent a proposal for a new provision in Section 10a of the Police Act concerning extended access to investigate whether persons carry weapons in a public place. The bill was based on the national lawyer's proposal, with some adjustments. The hearing bodies have been broadly in favour of the legislative proposal. Several have pointed out that there will be a need to extend the current scope of visitation in order to detect weapons. However, a number of hearing bodies have raised questions as to the need for extended access to the visit. Increased access to visitation is an intervention in the private sphere of the individual, which must be justified and limited. In order to safeguard these considerations, it is important to lay down certain restrictions in the scope of the law, and also to lay down formal requirements for its implementation. It has also been important to carefully consider privacy considerations and that the proposal does not conflict with Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The new provision of Section 10a of the Police Act is inter alia: a new tool for the police in the pre-planning of actions to detect weapons. This applies in public places, in situations or in places where violence is easily perpetrated by experience. There is reason to stress — and not least after the speeches in the debate today — that the design of this provision has not meant to distort the provisions already in place today, either in the Criminal Procedures Act or in the Police Act. The new provision is intended only as a useful supplement to existing legislation. The Ministry has also found reason to stress that the practice of the provision needs to be set up in such a way as to ensure that the public's concerns are best taken care of, in order to fulfil the purpose of the law, and that the practice is in accordance with it. The Ministry of Justice's proposal for a new regulation in the Police Act is based on the bill sent to the hearing, with some adjustments. Adjustments have been made in the context of the consultation round and apply in relation to the concept of weapons and the decision-making authority. The Ministry of Justice's proposal for a new provision of the Police Act can briefly be summarised as follows: Police may search for persons in a public place — in situations or in places where violence is easily experienced — where there is reason to examine whether the person is in possession of weapons. The visit shall only be carried out by technical means in such cases.The visit may only be carried out when the police chief, or the deputy of the police officer, has agreed in advance that the visit may be conducted in a specified area and period of time. The Ministry of Justice has found it appropriate that the provision be given as a temporary act. The period of validity has been proposed for three years from the date of entry into force. During this period, experience will be developed, both in terms of the practice of the provision and in terms of its effects. I am familiar with the position of the Judicial Committee and the various comments there, and will point out that the majority on page 4 of the vote is based and agree with the Ministry that the proposed law does not conflict with Norway's obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights. Since then, however, the majority of the Committee has proposed two amendments to the draft law on pages 5 and 6. I do not refer to them here, they have been referred earlier by the case rapporteur. I want to say the following: I take note of this, I accept it, and I perceive it as adjustments to the bill. In conclusion, I find it appropriate to mention that the Ministry aims to carry out an evaluation of the provision after it has been in operation for some time – this in order to assure me that the new legal provision will have the effect we want and will not have any negative results. So I would generally say that after many years as a big city politician, especially in this city, and after many years of experience, among other things. in the fight against organised crime, in broad contact with the Oslo Police – inter alia: the sitting police officer – was somewhat surprised that the police were going to be as unimaginable as it appeared in a previous post here. It is clear that the police themselves, according to current legislation, believe that they have the means to use them if necessary to ensure public order and security. Section 7 of the Police Act and Section 10 of the Police Act provide such homes. I can assure you that if, in the time that comes, this is an assessment that does not extend, we will, of course, act on it. I would also like to point out that this case was sent out at the hearing in February, and it is being discussed in Stortingen now, in June. It shows that a solid majority in this Chamber is able to act when necessary to set the limits in the fight against violence, to ensure that violent perpetrators are stopped and that violence is prevented. I'm so happy!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e333	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e336	It became absolutely necessary to answer Jan Simonsen's attack both on the committee and on the right. Jan Simonsen's description of the police's helplessness when two criminal gangs stand on Karl Johan and they cannot intervene, either with search or other methods, becomes simply pathetic and faulty. The Oslo Police Chamber makes it crystal clear in consultation with the Committee that the officials at the Chamber perceive that in such situations they have the legal basis they need. It's important to clarify. Nevertheless, Oslo’s chief of police said that there are some situations where there could be useful additional provisions, such as: in the event of large events, in the case of crowds and in the case of situations where one may benefit from obtaining a prior consent in order to carry out a mass visit, e.g.: with metal detector. The description given by Rogaland's self-appointed Oslo expert is therefore ripping mad in relation to the description of Oslo's highest police authority and the description of Oslo's officials. With regard to police-Norway signals, there has been a crystal clear support for the bill, but some of our politicians, among others. in the big cities, have pointed out something they could have liked to adjust – and it has been adjusted by the Justice Committee and the Ministry of Justice. Because the Procedural Party is obviously so disappointed that the National Advocate has changed course, it is appropriate for Jan Simonsen to mention the First Letter of the National Advocate, but not the Second Letter of the National Advocate of 14 August, where he says quite clearly that the National Advocate has come to the conclusion that the proposal can be qualified in such a way that the danger in relation to the EMK is further reduced without any reduction in efficiency. That is why the national lawyer himself proposed, among other things: use of metal detector, a proposal which the Committee has softened further by incorporating the word ‘preferential’ use of detector. So, with regard to the concerns of Police Norway about a too narrow description of the time and place, the lack of the word ‘preferably’ in terms of the use of metal detector, the difference in the use of ‘person’ or ‘one person’ and the fear that the training conditions could become too complicated and too ineffective, the Justice Committee has thus corrected it in full understanding with the Ministry of Justice. But the frustration of the Progress Party over the fact that the majority of people actually take responsibility and do something, and try to get collective majority solutions, is so significant that one chooses to go to extremes that do not even have the support of the State Attorney. It is sad that it should be so, but there are lots in this room that prefer demonstration rather than result. Thank you and the price is not the basis for the majority's view, because then the police would not have had the improvement they need.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e353	I noted that the representative, Mr Devold, believes that the proposals of the Progress Party represent extremes and that the representative, Mr Nymo, felt that the proposals of the Progress Party were dramatic. So let me remind you that our proposals have been put forward as a follow-up to an initiative by the Attorney General, and that our proposal for changes to the Criminal Procedures Act, except our definition of weapons, is otherwise identical to the national attorney's first proposal in a letter to the Ministry of Justice. Our proposal for an amendment to the police law is, in fact, almost identical to the first proposal of the national attorney, but without the restrictions that are now regrettably the result of the lack of willingness of the Right and other parties to follow up actions that would work effectively for the police. When the Attorney General returned to the Ministry of Justice with a new order, it was because the Minister of Justice rejected the first proposal of the Attorney General. So he had to come back with a new and moderated draft. When the former Minister of Justice rejected the proposal, it was with two main reasons. First of all, she thought it would be uncomfortable – it says in the letter from the Minister of Justice to the State Attorney, for the dark-skinned youth to be stopped by the police. That's a pretty amazing argument. It must be far more uncomfortable for these young people to risk getting a knife in their backs, so they obviously have the same interest as all of us because it's being cleaned up. Secondly, the Minister of Justice held that there was doubt as to whether the first proposal of the national lawyer was contrary to Article 8 of the European Commission on Human Rights. But the national lawyer argues relatively strongly against such a point of view. In fact, Oslo police use an authority and opportunity that they have under the police law §7 and §10, but then it is required that there is a fear that a person will interfere with public order and order. With the example I used, where youth comes quietly walking down a street and they are suspected of having an illegal knife, but they can hardly be suspected of wanting to disrupt peace and order, it becomes doubtful if you can use that home, and if you do that, you stretch your home as far as you can. The Right really should respond now — and if they do not respond to it now, they will at least try to respond to it during a long campaign — is what is the purpose of this restriction for the extended right of visitation, which is to limit it to places where violence is easily perpetrated by experience. Why should one not be able to visit elsewhere when encountering these young people in places where violence is not actually easily practiced? It is expected to receive a reply from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e366	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 748]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e380	We have had a debate on this in Stortinget. Now the proposal will not be any better if we deal with it in Odelstinget, but to the President's briefing, SV will vote against the proposed position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e385	The President has already registered that. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 749]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e401	We are now discussing a position of the Financial Committee on the abolition of the beer law and amendments to the alcohol law and the inheritance tax law. Let me start by saying that in the case of the beer law, the proposal is primarily a statutory clean-up, with only one exception. The exception is based on the law that when the alcoholic strength exceeds 7 % vol., it could not be called beer. EFTA, or ESA monitoring body, pointed this out in an open letter dated 10 September 1998, which states that the prohibition in Section 17 of the Beer Act on the importation and placing on the market of beer with an alcoholic strength of more than 7 % vol. is contrary to the EEA Agreement. And it's a unanimous committee that joins the setting at this point. With regard to the deduction of the document fee from the inheritance tax, a large majority of the committee also concluded that amendment, namely that the document fee as an heir or a donor pays on commercial property, is now to be deducted from his inheritance tax. However, I state that this change does not entail changes to the rules on the document fee, and I am attending a larger mention of the document fee and the inheritance fee from the department at a later date. In particular, this VAT amendment is mentioned in other comments and proposals, where the Progress Party has taken up proposals specifically related to VAT and the adverse effects it has on competition in air traffic in Norway. We from the Workers' Party and the Right have made it clear in this comment on the VAT amendment that the Progress Party has addressed, that as long as the Government has not at present been able to provide a necessary basis for the treatment of VAT changes in relation to the neutrality of the aviation industry, we are not prepared today to address it in substance. But let it be quite clear that we are strongly committed to going in now and looking at these distortions of competition that are in this case. We had also hoped that the government would come to Stortinget with this case, so that we could have finished it before we took a vacation on June 18. So it hasn't happened, but we want to make it clear that we need a little bit more material before we can get a hold of it. I would also like to point out that we have now actively joined the majority that went away from the seat tax and passed on to the passenger fee. We are now also involved in the decision in the vote on the revision, where we include. will remove the investment fee for aviation from 1 July – in workshops, among others. – so that we are prepared to make the adjustments that are necessary for this part of our industry to have the right competitive conditions. With this I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e416	It is good that a right of deduction for the document fee in the inheritance fee relating to permanent commercial property should now be adopted. However, such a right of deduction should also be extended to several groups, and I take this into account the proposal made by the Progress Party in the vote in that area. So for the tax discrimination between airlines. I record that the representative Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party expresses a significant degree of willingness to do something about this. But on purpose, you actually need to vote and press the button. It's a bit of a shame, I think, that here you could do a pretty simple operation to solve this problem, and this is also based on a proposal that the government has had out on the hearing. It is clear that we agree that it is unnecessary that this has not yet come from the Government, but the Storting could have done something about it. In this way, I think it is a pity that such a proposal is being voted down. Because it is clear that competition is a major disadvantage for some Norwegian companies on the market today, and this may lead to the fact that some companies may be flagged out. It means lost jobs, that means lost tax revenue, yes, that also means lost professional skills. And that would perhaps even compensate for the possible proceeds from this by making changes in VAT legislation. What is gratifying is that there will be a majority when we review the revision of at least removing the investment tax bit. That's what we think we're happy about. I allow myself to address the proposal that the Progress Party has made in this proposition, but I must also refer to the letter sent from the Stortinge Office to the Financial Committee, which discussed the possibility of taking up this type of legislative amendment through the examination of the revision. A little dependent on the Presidency's assessments and recommendations, we'll consider coming back to that question later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e427	Siv Jensen has addressed the two proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e430	Very briefly: I will first address the proposal that is referred to in the setting from SV, which is initially not part of this odd thing proposition. The reason for this was also referred to by the representative Jensen, namely that this is the document that was available to us to promote tax proposals, although there is no separate tax proposal from the Government. I also understood that was a question that might come back to, but this is where the proposal is addressed – a proposal that otherwise affects the greatest unfairness in our tax system, and which hopefully more people will join. With regard to the other proposals, SV supports the repeal of the beer law, we do not support the proposal to deduct the document fee from the inheritance fee – we do not give priority to that type of tax relief, without any further justification for this. With regard to the proposal from the Progress Party, it is a proposal that we do not support either.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e437	Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e440	Two comments: One is the question of document fees, because the government is promoting a proposal that goes in the right direction, but that is just a little bit of a bigger issue. The Progress Party takes up another aspect of the issue and proposes it. None of the proposals really address what may be the main issue in terms of inheritance. It is the tax base itself, the rate and the free amount. But we also refrain, because there has to be some logic in how to act. When the Government sets up a sample to evaluate the entire scheme, according to the cancellation, it is reasonable, if you want to get something figured out, to wait until it is determined. If you know the answer, you can't figure it out! And I registered that no parties in this hall believe that you know the answers. There are several distortions of the inheritance tax system in addition to what both the Progress Party and the Government here propose. The Government is fully in agreement with its proposal. For example, I would like to ask the representative Jensen about what she thinks about another aspect of the inheritance tax system, namely whether it is reasonable, as today, to consider in the regulations relating to the document fee, a dead person who buys the property of a deceased person and therefore imposes the death penalty on 9/12 of the full document fee in addition to the full document fee that the purchaser of a property from a deceased person has to pay. These are pretty complicated issues. I think you'll be well served, not to stumble into your suggestions, to get it all reasonably thoroughly evaluated. It doesn't change our principleal attitudes, among other things. that inheritance tax in family businesses has gradually become a very burdensome charge, which we are prepared to reduce in some form – the basis of calculation, the amount of free money or the rate of probability, or a combination of these. However, there are a number of other unfairnesses of inheritance tax legislation today and the calculation of the document fee that we would like to have investigated and seen in a context. It's basically my advice to the Progress Party, too, because you can risk tripping laughs here, for example, forget to address the issue I'm now pointing to. So to the other issue, which no party other than the Progress Party has addressed in the form of proposals. This concerns the rules — and perhaps in particular practice — for the calculation of VAT for airlines. There's obvious unreasonableness. I think that's widely recognized. There are injustices that have emerged particularly when competition is free, and when Norwegian companies fly differently both domestically and abroad. I say differently. Moreover, I think that, as the margins have become somewhat smaller in domestic air traffic, more attention has been paid to the charges, and that is not unnatural. The domestic airlines are currently running out of deficits, and this side of the cost is also focused on this. I therefore think there is every reason to stress that we on the Right want equal treatment for all domestic air traffic, regardless of whether the companies have access to operate more or less abroad while flying domestically. I think there's a lot of difference here. The Progress Party is also promoting a proposal here, despite having participated in a majority that has previously asked the Government to set up a wide range — and the Government has followed it up — to assess the conditions of competition in aviation, a selection of which the industry, experts and ministerial staff are involved. And the mandate is derived from the Storting's own attitude. If you want something figured out, I kind of think it's a little intellectually reasonable to wait for the investigation, because if you had the answer, you wouldn't have to ask for an investigation. I also think the same reasoning applies here. That it's urgent, I'd like to stress, but I think there's still time to get it into a reasonable treatment for next year. I would like to ask the Council of State to follow this up actively, because I agree with those who say that in the longer term, this can be about quite significant distortions of competition between large international companies and smaller national companies and perhaps – in the worst case in the longer term – the deflagration of jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e459	First, to the question of the inheritance fee: I believe that the examples from the representative Foss are only a few compared to some of the unreasonable things we see related to the inheritance fee. Indeed, the view of the Progress Party on the inheritance tax is that it is an immoral double taxation that should be removed as soon as possible. As for this warning from Foss about the danger of tripping, we don't see it. We want to work actively to get the most of the inheritance fee removed, because it is, at least, as we see it, completely immoral. So to this selection that was set up to look at the competition conditions for aviation: yes, it is absolutely right, as the representative Foss says, that this selection was set up with the unanimous agreement of the Stortinget. But the problem is that the issue of VAT was not discussed in the Financial Committee at the time that that sample was set up, because it was then estimated that the Government would come to Stortingen with a case on the value added tax question. This did not happen, so that the majority of the financial committee has done so in the vote on the revision, just to point out, as an addition to this sample, that the issue of value added tax should also be addressed here. So it wasn't supposed to be when this sample was reduced. So to all intents and purposes: I fully agree with the representative Foss that when you first go in to reduce a sample, you should wait for the results. But there was no starting point for this sample. Now it's inserted. That's well and good, that, but it would have been possible to solve this sub-bit anyway. Why, for example, does the Right and the Working Party support the proposal to remove the investment tax, but not the proposal to remove the VAT when both contribute to distortions of competition? I find in many ways that the argument from the representative Foss does not hold in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e470	Several have not asked for the word. Per-Kristian Foss has asked for the floor. The president reminds us that it's late in the evening, and he also wants to remind us that we have more things to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e475	I'll worry about it. I just want to say about the issue of why you charge investment taxes and not VAT. I think the issue of investment fees is very simple – very simple! It's not in this case. The airlines themselves have pointed out that this applies not only to the legislation but also to its practice. That is why we want to get a better basis for taking a stand on this, and follow the reasonable normal working method that we do not address our own proposals in areas that are not affected by the Government documents. I note that in the whole vote on the revision, the Progress Party has a standard comment that goes back as much as 32 times, and that is that the review of the revised budget should make the least possible possible. However, those who have the most far-reaching proposals and the most unexplored proposals are precisely the Progress Party, also in the context of revision. It might be good to keep the same principle throughout the treatment. In conclusion, I would just like to say that I noticed that the representative Jensen did not find any reason to address the issue I raised, injustice in dealing with the deceased. It only shows that this is a problem that is several times more extensive than the limited proposal The Progress Party addresses. Therefore, it may be wise to wait for all parts of the issue to be addressed, so that you do not do injustices when, for example: make allowances for some, but not for others, in the treatment of both the document fee and the inheritance fee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e486	Siv Jensen has spoken twice, and gets the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e490	I am sorry to have to extend the debate, but that is the way it is: yes, we have a standard comment throughout the whole vote on the revision, because we believe that the revised budget should not be used to a large extent to make major changes. That is also why we are voting against a number of the tax-change proposals that the Right is promoting – precisely because we believe they do not belong here. But we've taken into account the areas where we think it is very necessary to do something, because the situation has changed. And there we've taken up suggestions. And to the question of death rower: I said on behalf of the Progress Party that we want to remove the entire inheritance fee, and then it is not necessary to nuance which things are worse. We believe that the entire fee is immoral.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e497	Then no more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 750]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e511	Since it's late in the evening, I'm going to try not to address what we're going to debate on Friday, but relate to what's in this odelsting proposition. The Committee supports the Government's proposal to grant 100 million. kr to project-oriented technology development in the petroleum sector. But at the same time, the majority of the Committee opposes the Government's proposal to amend the Law on the State Petroleum Fund to finance these new expenditures. The proposal on expenditure on petroleum-oriented technology development is mentioned in St.prp. No 67 for 1998-99, under new cap. 2441 Petroleum-oriented technology development, item 50. This chapter proposes the allocation of a programme for project-oriented technology development in the petroleum industry. The State contribution shall be channelled as earmarked funds through the Norwegian Research Council. It is assumed that the oil industry itself will be responsible for a substantial part of the financing of the programme. In the Ministry's reply of 8 June this year to questions asked by the Workers' Party's Group, it is stated: ‘The proposal to grant project-oriented technology development in the petroleum industry is based on a number of project inputs from the oil industry. The question of possible appropriations for the purpose beyond 1999 will be assessed by the Government in the context of the presentation of the specific budget proposals. The allocation to project-oriented technology development is not to be seen as ordinary research resources of a more long-term and fundamental nature. However, this action will be complementary to ordinary research programmes through NFR. ‘... The proposal therefore implies that the State, together with the oil industry, should contribute to the financing of technology development projects. The majority of the Committee considers that this may give rise to a new industrial focus and therefore supports the intentions of the proposal on the Fund. However, it is not clear from the proposal how to draw the lines between arrangements that can be financed by the petroleum fund and those financed by the budget. And in response of 8 June this year, once again to questions from the Workers' Party's big group, the Department writes: ‘The appropriations for project-oriented technology development are linked to the participation of the State in the petroleum industry and are intended to reduce costs on Norwegian continental shelf, inter alia, in order to increase the country’s revenues from the petroleum industry in the long term. ‘... Thus, the government finds it close, as they say in the letter, ‘to define the allocation as a petroleum-related expenditure’, because this research programme aims to reduce the cost of the base and thus increase the country’s revenues from the petroleum activity in the long term. However, a number of research projects related to petroleum activities could contribute to the reduction of costs on Norwegian continental shelf in the long term. In addition, for example: NORSOK, INTSOK and ENVIRONMENTAL SOCK compare with the proposed programme. It must therefore be noted that the Government’s proposal actually means that what should be an ordinary budgetary allocation is to be financed by deducting the cash flow from the petroleum activity. The country's net cash flow is transferred as income to the State Petroleum Fund through the State budget, thus contributing to the financing of parts of the budget. It is of concern if measures which may initially be considered as ordinary budgetary appropriations are not to be included in the overall budgetary assessment but are directly financed by the petroleum fund. This would involve accounting impurity, which in turn contributes to the exclusion of a specific expenditure item in the assessment of the overall budgetary growth. The government proposes this without a fundamental discussion of a law change to get it to. The majority, all except the members of the government parties, have concluded that they are opposed to the Government's proposal to amend the State Petroleum Fund Act. And finally, I recommend the committee's recommendation, which is therefore to reject the proposal for amendments to the Law on the State Petroleum Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e552	: I will briefly refer to the late space party's comment on this matter in the configuration from the committee, and will, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, take up the minority proposal that is made in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e557	The representative of Ingreigt S. Sørfonn has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e560	The rapporteur has explained why this has been very unfair. The Committee is, of course, in favour of the proposed allocation, but it is inexhaustible. I don't have to go into detail about it, but that's also the background that SV is to reject this bill, and is for it to be granted through the ordinary budgets. The reason I took the floor was that we wanted this fund to have a different device. What will be one of the most important challenges for Norwegian society, and not least for the petroleum sector, will be that we will have a sustainable economy. So that means an economy that is ecologically sustainable over time. The petroleum sector is one of the most important greenhouse gas emission sources we have; it accounts for a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions. The environmental measures taken in the North Sea have been positive. So we want this fund, the Technology Fund, as this is called, to have a different device than the proposed one, which is mentioned in the State budget, and to which we will probably come back on Friday. Let me just say briefly that if we are to create an ecologically sustainable economy, it will be absolutely necessary to set up this kind of fund. We are positive about that, also that we get an environmental device that will contribute as an incentive for the industry itself to go further towards creating the sustainable economy that we will depend on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e572	Taking into account the time of day, I tried to resist the temptation to take the floor. I did well in the previous case, but I still think I have to say some words in this case, after the rapporteur's comments. The government wants to intensify research in the petroleum sector. We have therefore promoted a The allocation will be part of a programme aimed at improving the decision-making basis on Norwegian soil. This will have implications both for contributing to new field development based on new cost-effective technologies and for ensuring greater certainty that development projects can be carried out within a budgeted framework. I have noticed that there seems to be a majority for this action in Stortinget, and this is joyous in the light of the challenges we are now facing on a Norwegian base. The appropriations for project-oriented technology development are funds linked to the participation of the State in the petroleum industry. This is why the Government has chosen to propose that the funds be deducted from its net cash flow from the petroleum activity. In this context, I point out that, in many cases, there is significant technology development related to individual licences. The State will finance a proportionate share of this in the shares of the licences in which the DØE holds. Thus, such technology development costs will automatically be deducted in calculating the net cash flow from the petroleum activity transferred to the petroleum fund. The difference from the appropriations currently proposed by the Government is that the costs of this appropriation may not be allocated to each licence in the same way. At my discretion, it would be natural that such costs were treated equally, regardless of whether they could be attributed to a particular licence or not. This is the background for the Ot Government. pp. No 67 for 1998-99 proposes an amendment to the Act on the State Petroleum Fund. Paragraph 2 of the Act specifies the income and expenditure included in the net cash flow from the petroleum activity transferred from the State budget to the State Petroleum Fund. The proposal to amend the State Petroleum Fund Act implies that the costs of petroleum-oriented technology development as described above are deducted from the net cash flow from the petroleum activity. Thus, these costs will be treated in line with the corresponding costs financed by each licence. I also point out that an investigation programme aimed at improving the basis for decisions on disposal cases relating to pipelines in the petroleum industry was funded in a similar way in the context of the revised national budget in 1996. No legislative change was introduced at the time, but a new item, ‘Special operating expenditure’, was created under the budget chapter concerning the removal of devices on a Norwegian base. In this way, these exploration costs were automatically charged to the petroleum fund. A unanimous biging then joined this. This is therefore not a new way of financing such expenditure. The government’s legislative proposals would result in a similar treatment of investigation costs related to technology development on Norwegian pedestal. However, I take note, of course, that the Government's proposal to amend the law does not seem to have a majority in Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e587	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 751]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e601	The rapporteur is Erik Dalheim, who is in Lagginget. Tore Nordtun then said he was willing to file the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e604	On behalf of the Workers' Party, I made a proposal earlier in Document No. 8:27 for 1998-99 on cargo balancing for fuel, and in that proposal we asked the Government to reintroduce the old freight balancing system as soon as possible. We prayed in this Document No. At the same time, the 8 proposal that the Government had to impose a ceiling on the increased costs of the scheme, cf. Inner. O. No 26. Then came Innst. O. No 81 for 1998-99, where the Committee's recommendation was: ‘The order in which the State budget for petrol and automotive diesel was carried forward from 1 January 1999 will be reintroduced from 5 February 1999 until 30 June 1999. ‘... I would like to point out that the self-funded freight balancing system that the Government is now proposing again will represent an additional cost for fuel users of the order of 150-200 million. kr, i.e. one additional cost per year. liters of 5 ears plus VAT. On the part of the majority, we do not find that this substantial extra cost for fuel buyers can be generally defended, especially in relation to the impact of the current scheme on the fuel prices in the districts. Under the current scheme, no one pays more than 7 cents per cent. liters beyond the 0 zone, i.e. that freight costs through concrete allocation from Stortinget are reduced by more than 100 million. kr per. years. So the Minister of Finance Restad's proposal represents an extra cost for the fuel buyers of 300 million. kr. And this is one of the main reasons why the majority opposes the proposed system and advocates the continuation of the current system. We propose that a further 40 million be allocated to the 1999 state budget. kr for continuation of the current freight balancing system, cf. Treatment of st. perp by the Storting. No 67 for 1998-99, Repriorities and additional appropriations for the 1999 State budget, cf. cap. 1560 heading 70. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right and Twist Elections, indicate that the significant price differences in fuel are linked to competition in the market. In this context, the same majority refers to the competitive new market players faced when access to Norwegian distribution stocks is not granted. The majority therefore assumes that the Ministry contributes to the access of new actors to such stocks. This is assumed to be done on commercial terms or by other means to be the basis for new actors. We also believe that this could be an important contribution to further strengthening nationwide competition in the fuel market. The conclusion, as proposed by the majority, is as follows in the vote: ‘The Government asks the Government to continue the Stortinge decision of 4 February 1999 on the system of freight subsidies on the State budget for petrol and automotive diesel. ‘... This is in accordance with the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e632	On 6 January 1995 Mr Gudmund Restad submitted a Document No. 8-proposal for measures at equal fuel prices across the country. The main content of the 1995 proposal is almost identical to the proposal we are dealing with today, as was the proposal on freight equilibration, which was made immediately before Christmas, and which was rejected by a majority in Stortinget. The State Council of Restad has obviously for many years had a vision of being able to put in place a system that brings almost equal prices of petrol in Norway, a vision that he would obviously not want to give up on. However, equal fuel prices across the country are not feasible by introducing a new tax, as most consultation bodies have also pointed out. It's not the shipping costs that lead to the big price differences, especially the prices are low in areas where there are also unserviceable stations. Competition surveillance studies clearly conclude that low petrol prices result from effective competition, a lack of competition in the districts. Of the 26 consultation opinions received by the Ministry, all rejected the proposed scheme — except for three. And the three are the Communes' Central Federation, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, which speaks for itself. Many ‘heavy’ hearing opinions, with the Competition Authority at the head, are in principle anti-freight balancing, but substantiately support a system of the State budget. The government justifies the introduction of a self-financing rural freight balancing scheme. However, the proposal lacks an analysis of the practical significance of the proposal for those living in different parts of the country. Nor has it been assessed whether the proposal will have an impact on the pattern of residence or whether it will make it easier to draw labour to the districts. It is unlikely that the desired adverse effects of the scheme will be achieved. Moreover, in some areas it is much cheaper to keep a car in the districts than in the central districts. An example of this is the insurance premiums on cars, which are far more expensive in Oslo. The difference can be many thousands a year, which does not vary the rate of the petrol charge. On a number of occasions, the former non-Council of the Ministry of Finance has provided for the introduction of self-financing schemes or fund schemes outside the State budget. Even the current government has put forward good arguments that end up doing so. On questions from the Right, the Council of State has not been able to give any good explanation that it is now seeking to derogate from this principle. The right hand is, like most hearing bodies, basically anti-fracture. But with the high charges that are currently on petrol and diesel, the Right is in favour of the continuation of today's freight balancing over the state budget. In addition, we will include the two companies that are not currently covered by the scheme, so that competition can be strengthened. It is far more important to reduce fuel taxes to the right than to introduce a new bureaucratic self-financing system that the entire population of Norway will see as the introduction of a new tax. I would like to say honour to be the Council of State Restad's firmness in placing the burdens on the drivers and on the business community. But I hope and believe that's the last time we're dealing with this State Council Restad's vision. It has previously been rejected twice by the Stortinget, it has been rejected by all the hearing bodies, it has been rejected by the Ministry of Finance, and it will now be rejected by a majority of the Stortinget. So we hope that's the last time we're dealing with this scheme in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e651	I will first address the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, as indicated in the setting on page 7. It is in accordance with the Government's proposal and justified in two respects. The only thing is that through this, we get a self-funded system, where the shipping costs are fully covered outside of the 0-zone, and that's also the background for the extra costs that the case spokesman had in his post, and secondly, here we get a download of the state budget. Otherwise, I refer you to the debate we had on this issue in the Stortinget in February.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e658	Jørgen Holte has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e661	I would like to start by saying that although I am opposed to any subsidy scheme in the case of cargo, I allow myself to claim that if there is first to be a system of freight balancing, a continuation of today's system is far preferable to the proposal for a new system. The new scheme proposed by the Government is, in reality, an increase in the petrol and diesel tax for all those buying these products, as if it were not high enough. I'm not sure if the background for the government's proposals is based on a kind of justice by the fact that there should be something similar to petrol and diesel prices in this country. In case I ask the question, what kind of justice are you going to use? Is it that the petrol customers in Bodø have to pay the freight for the gas and diesel customers in Saltdal? While the estate gene has to pay 1.5 million. NOK in the case of a dwelling and must cover that amount in full itself, the saline shall be removed by half. What kind of justice is there in that? A match of praise will not be paid 30-40 kroner per person. kg for fresh screams, an osloenser has to pay at least twice — and one is not sure if the fish is fresh even. What kind of justice is that? It's possible that someone thinks it sounds fair. I'm not among them. For me, justice is that if you want to live in an urban area, there's a lot of benefits to it, and there's a lot of disadvantages, in line with if you live in the districts. In both cases, individual choice is free, and you have to cover the cost of moving yourself. If there was not to be the idea of justice behind such a proposal, is it some kind of district policy? If someone thinks it's the freight balancing system that's going to be what ensures a settlement, then someone has to start believing again. It seems to me that you have the impression that if the prices are the same in this country, everything is fine. I think the price would have been 12 kroner, but nobody in this country got the same for 11.50 kroner. In fact, during the time we've had this re-introduction fractal balancing system that's been proposed and that's worked until today, people have moved from District Norway and into the agglomerations like never before. When are we going to rise to the bulk of the population that there's not equal gas and diesel prices going to make people live and work in District Norway? Lower taxes on these products are easy to apply. I'm pretty sure people in Saltdal had accepted that the gas cost 10-20 cents more in Bodø, if the level of fees had been to live with. And that's when we're at the heart of the problem: the crazy taxes on petrol and diesel! And that's one of the main reasons why people move, not the marginal differences with base in cargo. When you also know that it's not the freight costs that determine the price level of petrol and diesel, but the competition between the companies, the proposal becomes completely incomprehensible. As an example of this, I will show that although the shipping costs of petrol and diesel to Lake Sandness are twice as high as the shipping costs of the same products to Mo in Rana, the price of a litre of petrol is much lower in Lake Sandness than in Mo in Rana. A few days ago, the price of petrol was in Bodø Norway's lowest, although they have cargo supplements there. It shows that it is not the freight costs that determine the price, but the competition in the individual place. In other words, such a scheme would have little or no effect on the price level, and this is not an exceptional case. I could have mentioned far more if it had something in common. But for the sake of order – both Lake Sandness, Mo in Rana and Bodø are well for districts to count, and it clearly shows that schemes like this do not work. The Progress Party will vote against the regime proposed by the Government on a self-financing freight subsidy scheme, and we will vote against the continuation of today's regime.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e678	I'm sorry, but I don't think I can manage to show the same enthusiasm and feeling or the same commitment to this proposal, as previous speakers have shown. I just want to briefly explain why SV here stands with the Government – it is otherwise also nice to be in that company once in a while – and the reason for this is relatively simple. We think that a fractal equalization system makes sense. Of course, it is not enough to get equal prices for petrol or fuel throughout the country. It is quite right that competition in this way is the most important mechanism for getting lower prices in some regions. The advantage of a self-financing scheme is that in some parts of Norway, motorists with stronger competition help to reduce the price of those parts of Norway where competition is smaller. In addition, a self-financing mechanism will be less budget-dependent. This will mean that the scheme will be self-propelled, completely without the intervention of the Storting. That means you can't balance the budgets with a cut. The majority of the population here is using taxpayers' money to subsidize petrol of the order of 100 million. kr per. years. And you might say, well, that's right. In my opinion, that is not correct. If I had 100 million. kr, I would not sponsor the petrol price; on the contrary, I would use them for children and young people, for high school or for any of the other, good and sensible measures. Therefore, we support the Government in a self-financing anti-spare regime. But we haven't put that money in our alternative budget. We think the money should be spent on something more reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e687	Since the proposal has aroused such commitment to the assembly, I think, even though the clock has just passed midnight, that I have to make a little post. So it's the government of Ot.prp. No 73 for 1998-99 proposes to replace the current state budget freight subsidy scheme with a self-financing fuel freight balancing scheme. The aim of the proposal was to ensure full balancing of freight costs, while not charging public budgets. Of course, the proposal does not lead to equal fuel prices across the country, as others have pointed out. Differences in prices due to conditions other than freight costs, e.g.: differences in competitive conditions would not be affected by the scheme. Therefore, a self-financing freight balancing scheme as proposed would not prevent differences in fuel prices still occurring in Norway. However, by eliminating freight costs as a factor explaining price differences, different prices will result from conditions other than freight costs. Moreover, the fact that the proposed system of transport subsidies is self-financing would ensure that the oil companies are in charge of the financing, and thus that the scheme does not impose any other measures that need to be provided with appropriations from public budgets. The self-financing scheme would require the oil industry to pay a separate contribution for all taxable fuels covered by the scheme to a separate fund that provides a basis for the payment of freight subsidies. Unlike the State budget scheme, which only covers freight costs above 7 ør per. litres, it was proposed that the scheme be modified to fully offset freight costs outside a 0-zone. In order to simplify and target the scheme, it was also proposed to extend the 0 zone from 10 to 30 km. ‘0-zone ’ means a zone around the oil companies’ storage depots for fuel storage in which oil companies do not receive freight subsidies. In order to cover the freight costs of oil companies for the transport of fuel from the depots to refuelling stations outside the 0-zone, it was proposed that all fuel be charged a financial ring fee of 5 øre per. liters. The government assumed that the oil companies would roll this over to fuel prices, so that the scheme alone could lead to an increase in the price of all fuel by 5 cents per cent. litres plus VAT. Compared to a non-consignment situation, the total freight costs are allocated in addition to all fuel sales. Today's arrangement with discounts and local price competition will in particular benefit customers in key areas. However, through a full freight balancing system, as proposed by the Government, customers in the districts would be better off than by the current system. Regional considerations were behind both the current and the proposed scheme. I regret to say that a majority of the Committee on Finance is opposed to the proposed system of self-financing of freight balancing. I can't help but take note of that. A comfort to the many who will be disappointed by the majority's position is that it is willing to maintain a freight subsidy scheme. A majority is in favour of the continuation of the current system of freight subsidies above the State budget. In my opinion, the Government's proposal has several advantages in relation to the existing scheme, including: ensures, as mentioned above, full balancing of freight costs and thus removes the argument that frequent differences in fuel prices are due to freight costs. In addition, the scheme would be self-financing, so that the fuel buyers themselves, and not the taxpayers in general, are responsible for the financing. The scheme would thus not charge public budgets, where there is a great need for appropriations for many good purposes. However, I must bear in mind that the majority of the Grand Duchy does not agree with these assessments and that the majority is in favour of a change in today's system. An immediate consequence of this is an allocation need for the rest of the current year of 40 million. kr and a corresponding deterioration in the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e706	Several have not asked for the word. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e709	President!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e717	It's a line from Dag Terje Andersen. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e722	Thank you for that, President. I understand that the president is well with the club now. A concept such as ‘self-financing’ freight equalisation has repeatedly been used. And then I have to ask for clarification from the Council of State, because as we've seen the scheme, it's not self-financing, it's funded by all of the car users who are not currently in the anti-cargo system, i.e., the gas is going to be more expensive throughout the country. That is really the reality of the Restad proposal. When the majority rejects his proposal for a bureaucratic new arrangement and rather wants to maintain – with varying enthusiasm correctly – today's system, it is based on the fact that we want to save the drivers for a cost of hundreds of millions of dollars. I ask the Council of State to be so kind and to comment and, if necessary, confirm that the term ‘self-financing’ is misleading. It is a car user-funded anti-fracture system that the Council of State has proposed and that we today reject.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e731	No, the term ‘self-financing’ does not, of course, mean that you have some Sarepta’s jar from which this money can be taken. It is in the word ‘self-financing’ that the fund is financed by those who will use the fuel, as Mr. Dag Terje Andersen correctly points out. But it's not that today's scheme is free either, it's also other than fuel users, i.e. taxpayers in general, who contribute to the 100 million. kr in the year currently used for freight balancing, which is financed by the State budget. Otherwise, it's not right, as Dag Terje Andersen suggested here, that the scheme now proposed is more bureaucratic than the one we've had for many years. There will be a payment under the same system, and then there will be a payment from the five-six oil companies that are involved, so there is no bureaucratic system. – So that’s probably not the reason why the majority is not in favour of the scheme, but I’ve taken note that the majority of people don’t want a change, and there’s nothing to do with me.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e738	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 751]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e752	Salmonella warning, bacterial alarm or perhaps poison residues in food are unfortunately common examples of newspaper headlines today. And in a world where cross-border food trade is increasing, there is a clear need for quality control, and to a greater extent than before. Safe food for consumers is a key priority issue for the centre administration, and then it is obvious that effective and frequent control of food will benefit all consumers, from a health perspective. The extension of Annex 1 to the EEA Agreement has resulted in the abolition of border controls. While there may be a great deal to be said, it is very important that sampling and the screening of goods in enterprises and in the market are subject to a frequency that ensures a continuous good health and quality status. The Committee recommends to the Government that samples of food should be taken free of charge and Section 5, paragraph 3, amended accordingly. The meat production law and the fish quality control oven already have the right to sample free of charge, so this implies a reasonable harmonisation of the legislation. The Committee also recommends two other minor changes to the Food Law, in Sections 4 and 7. And the setting is consistent.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e772	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 752]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e786	Kristin Halvorsen has asked for the word. The President cannot see that any of the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee are present in the Chamber, so if Kristin Halvorsen can save the situation, the President is pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e789	I am amazed that this matter comes up now after the peace agreement has been concluded, and the war in the Balkans is over. But in any case it should have been that SV should have reserved itself against the proposal for a decision in the cancellation and marked it. By an incubator, it hasn't come along. That's why I just want to do something because the SV's group wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e794	The President is otherwise in doubt as to what the Foreign Affairs Committee would actually recommend in this matter. It is stated here that neither the chairman nor the vice-chairman of the committee is in the house, so the president will propose that we close the discussion of this matter, and that we may come back to it during voting. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 753]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e804	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-8.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1220	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1227	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1234	During the debate, Mr Simonsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the proposals No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1276	There is an aberrant proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Amendments to the Law amending the Police Act are amended as follows:New Section 10(a) is replaced by the following: Section 10(a) Visit to reveal the weapon Police may visit the person in public places for reasons of investigation into possession of the weapon. [[police law]] Weapons are firearms or weapons which are prohibited under the law of arms. Furthermore, a knife or similar sharp tool which is prohibited from carrying in a public place under Section 352(a) of the Criminal Code or dangerous items which may be placed in custody under the police law § 7.II. This law enters into force immediately. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1308	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1315	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1417	The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1426	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Socialist Left wants to oppose.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1435	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1441	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, proposal No. 3, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The government asks the Government in connection with the State budget for 2000 to submit proposals for deducting the document fee from the inheritance fee for ordinary inheritance, whose heir resides on the property. ‘... The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1520	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1527	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1574	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1583	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Socialist Left also wants to oppose.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1592	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1596	There is still to be a vote on the proposals No. Two and three. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3 from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 20 July 1991 No 65 on special rules for the taxation of companies and members of companies is amended as follows: § 3-3 and § 3-4 are repealed. [[Company Tax Act]] § 3-5 becomes new § 3-3. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1614	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the laws amending the Law of 19 June 1969 No. 66 new value added tax.I.Law of 19 June 1969 No. 66 on value added tax is amended as follows: Paragraph 16, first paragraph, paragraph point 1(d) is replaced by the following:(d) for use by foreign ships. Paragraph 16, first paragraph, point (b) point 2(a) is replaced by the following:(a) for use in ships of at least 15 metres in length when carrying cargo or in return for hire or reward; 3 shall be replaced by the following: 1 point c.Current Section 16, first paragraph, No. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 will be new points, respectively. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13.II. This Act shall enter into force on 1 July 1999. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1659	During the debate, Mr Sørfonn, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left, put forward a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision to the Act amending the Law of 22 June 1960 No. 36 on the State Petroleum FundI.In the Act of 22 June 1990 No. 36 on the State Petroleum Fund § 2 shall read 12 and the 13th indent shall be replaced by the following: any purchase by the State of units as part of its direct economic involvement in the petroleum industry, expenditure on project-oriented technology development in the petroleum industry. II.The law shall enter into force immediately. ‘... The Committee had nominated Odelstingen to do so. decision: Ot. pp. No 67 [[1998-99]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1701	During the debate, Jørgen Holte, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, put forward a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Agreements to the Auto-Funding Fuel Balancing Scheme § 1In the case of the introduction and operation of fuel, contributions to a freight balancing fund shall be paid. From the payment of the contribution paid to the fund, freight grants are paid.Oil companies which base their operations on the import of fuel and do not use tankers in Norway, if not covered by the freight balancing scheme.The King may lay down rules on the implementation of the freight subsidy scheme and the organisation of the fund, including the amount of the contribution to the fund, the amount of the payments, as well as detailed rules on the calculation, collection and control. § 2The rules applicable to the property and income tax to the State apply mutatis mutandis to the collection of contributions to the freight balancing fund. The king may provide for an obligation to pay interest on contributions that have not been paid in due time and on good interest on repayment of contributions. § 3The person who deliberately or negligently infringes this law or regulation given in accordance with the law is punished by fines unless the situation is affected by a more severe penalty. § 4The person who deliberately or negligently infringes this law or regulation given in accordance with the law, so that the levy on the Cohesion Fund is or could have been withheld, may be required by the Ministry to pay an additional contribution equal to the double, in repeated cases, the quadruple of the obligatory amount of the contribution. As far as liability under this paragraph is concerned, the contributor shall be assisted. § 5This Act shall enter into force on 1 July 1999. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1764	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the second paragraph of the decision will be to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1859	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1866	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1942	The Socialist Left wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1951	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-lower-2.ana.ud1865e1958	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
