ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e27	The representative, Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e30	I am promoting the following proposal: The Storting asks the Government to propose a legislative amendment so that the Norwegian alcohol law meets the EEA Agreement’s requirements for the non-discrimination of wine and wine products and beers with the same alcoholic strength.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e35	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e57	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Minister for Foreign Affairs Knut Vollebækstaadsråde Dag Jostein Fjærvollstaad Åslaug Marie Haga The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e76	I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Unfortunately, there are still very many serious international conflicts we are facing, not least in Chechnya. Now, however, I understand that the Foreign Minister is invited to discussions in Moscow, and I feel absolutely sure that our general concern that the Russians are acting out of proportion will be communicated. Therefore, on this issue, I would rather highlight one of the conflicts that have developed without attention, precisely in the face of such serious conflicts, and that is the situation in Belarus. It is, in fact, a serious problem of democracy and human rights that is developing very close to Norway. This is the responsibility of the OSCE. We hear little, and my question is, why has the activity of the OSCE been as weak as it has been?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e83	With regard to the first part of Jan Petersen's question, it might be a bit strong to say that I'm invited to discussions in Moscow, but I hope to work out something similar to an invitation. As far as Belarus is concerned, this is a serious problem. But I hope that the representative Petersen doesn't necessarily have to put an equal sign between the lack of news coverage through the media and the OSCE's activities. On the OSCE side, we carry out a number of activities that do not call for media interest, especially because of the situation in Kosovo and Chechnya. The situation in Belarus is one of the issues that we have been following very actively, both in terms of the relationship with the authorities and the compliance of the authorities with the rules that we think they should follow. Among other things, after a not insignificant pressure, we have had a presence there, not a good enough, but nevertheless a presence that can follow up on specific projects that go on human rights, and in addition to that, we have been concerned with the position of the opposition, among other things. the fact that oppositional arrests are carried out. The opposition was invited to participate in Istanbul, and there was contact with the opposition there, while in Istanbul they sought to avoid contact with President Lukashenko and his people, just to make the vision of the regime in Belarus visible. So this is one of the issues that is high on the OSCE agenda, but that is a very difficult matter. I don't have a clear solution to it, but through our presence now we have an opportunity to follow up on the issues that the OSCE wants to focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e95	To say that the opposition is being arrested is to the extent that a careful way of expressing it. In fact, important opposition politicians have simply disappeared. It is also the case that the economy of Belarus is in free fall, with the consequences it has for the population, and the President's mandate has actually expired, as we formally see it. That is why we are facing a very serious development here. I must say that I think the activity of the OSCE has been cautious in many ways. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether we can wait for an increased international pressure on Belarus, precisely because this is actually a problem that is quite close to the Norwegian borders.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e102	The OSCE will continue to pay attention to Belarus, and there is no doubt that there are major tasks to be addressed. One of the things we hope we can do is that by having a presence there, we can follow up on something. But in addition to that, I think we need to look at what we do bilaterally, because it has something to do with visibility, that the OSCE member country as a country needs to work more with Belarus, and we want to contribute to that through the OSCE.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e109	We will continue with the next main question – Haakon Blankenborg.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e112	I also have a question for the Foreign Minister, and I'm going to continue where Jan Petersen started, with Chechnya, which is a tragedy in itself. Then there's a war going on in our neighboring country, so it's extra close to us. I ask in and of the Foreign Minister as Foreign Minister and less as Chairman of the OSCE in this context, because the Foreign Minister was involved in the initiative taken in Istanbul to obtain a delegation to Chechnya. We hope, of course, that it can be completed. The most important thing is to get international representation in place in the area, then of course also to get humanitarian aid in place and so few to end the acts of war. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister if he sees other possibilities for international observers in place and humanitarian aid into this war zone, in addition to the initiative taken in the OSCE.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e119	At the moment, it is not always as easy for the Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs to separate their two roles, and as far as Chechnya is concerned, I think absolutely I should not do that if I are to have any hope of doing something positive in Chechnya. But that doesn't mean we can't push. We're now pressing to get a visit to the region. We were in contact with Moscow last night and yesterday, and I am waiting for a response from the Russian Foreign Minister later today for a visit, either this week or early next week, to Moscow. So this will later be followed up with a visit to the region, just because we're concerned that this is going to be a process and not just a single visit. In addition to that, I have been in contact with Ogata, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, and also with Summeruga, who is head of the International Red Cross Committee. We have also said that we are willing to cooperate with them to the extent that they need help from us in implementing emergency aid. I am also aware that the Council of Europe aims to send representatives to the region. As I hope to travel at the beginning of December, we will aim to have representatives of the OSCE troika, so that several countries are involved. We will also aim to have the EU in this delegation, so that the EU can also engage directly and get a first-hand impression. We're still going to demand the opening of an office in Nazran, which is what is realistically possible right now. And if we can get a presence there with the other organizations, it's my hope that it should be able to both help and remedy the humanitarian distress and also be an instrument to engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e129	I ask the question in this way precisely because of what the Foreign Minister had to say, the humanitarian situation and the need for organisations and others to enter the area with direct support for refugees and others. I understand the Minister for Foreign Affairs so that it is part of the arrangement that he, as the OSCE President, has now taken the initiative. The wider perspective here is also future for the OSCE as an organisation facing a conflict like this and where one of the central members has shown little cooperation initially. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs view the outcome of Istanbul as a rescue plan for the OSCE to move forward, and does this decision also establish a cooperation with Russia that is satisfactory for the organisation to move forward?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e136	Humanitarian work is now important. But the political work will be important in the longer term, and therefore I welcome the decision we made in the Istanbul Declaration. I would not say that there is any rescue plan, for the OSCE would continue to work on this matter and say that this was a matter on which they had the opportunity and a mandate to work. But I think the decision we made in Istanbul reveals the importance of an international press, and also makes it visible how important the OSCE as an organisation is. For precisely within the framework of the OSCE, we could put pressure on Russia in this context. If we had not had this organization, we would not have been able to put a similar pressure. Therefore, we will continue to work on these issues within the OSCE. I must say that I am not entirely satisfied with the Russian willingness to cooperate, but it is not just Russia that is difficult in the OSCE, so we will take on Russia in the same way as we are taking on other member countries of the OSCE.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e143	There will be follow-up questions – Ingvald Godal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e146	For the third time in our lifetime, Russia is now running massive massacres of civilians in Chechnya. In connection with that, I have two questions for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The first is, how brutal can a regime go against parts of its own population before it loses its right to rule them? And the second is, how do the Russians behave in Chechnya in relation to their obligations as members of the Council of Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e155	Finally, I must say that it must be the Council of Europe that decides. I now understand that the Council of Europe will visit Chechnya, and then I assume that there will be a report that will address Russia's relationship with the Council of Europe. With regard to the first part of Godal's question, unfortunately, there are no limits to how brutally you can go forward. If we look around the world, you can think of Africa, some regimes have unfortunately also gone a lot worse than what we see in Chechnya today, even though this is serious enough. Nevertheless, they continue to rule their countries, so there are no objective criteria. But it does not deprive us of the other responsibility to just focus attention on this, make demands and say that this is unacceptable. We will do that both bilaterally and within the OSCE.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e162	Erik Solheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e165	I have also reported questions about this to the ordinary Question Time, and I will then come back to some of the humanitarian aspects, what we can do, for example. with collections under the direction of the Red Cross and other measures. Now taking the political side: One of the reasons why the West is cautious in its criticism of what is happening in Chechnya – one sees it in relation to how serious the situation is there – is, of course, the fear of triggering a new cold war, a new division and a new tension in relation to Russia, and that if that happens, one will be less able to influence the Russians in the long run. Then I will bring in another aspect, because this is from all the central actors also part of the big policy. To what extent does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see a link between what is now happening and the decisions taken around oil pipelines in the area? There is a danger that decisions such as those taken and which give the Americans very much influence – among other things. at the pipeline through Turkey, which can be seen very easily in Russia as being put on the sideline – can it contribute to what is now happening? And in that case, what can Norway do to make sure that we don't become part of an American game that seems negative to the Russians?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e174	This can easily be seen, and I guess you shouldn't be pushing too much out of the Greatness's pulpit. But I would think that what is now happening to the pipeline, and the recent decision in Turkey, in many ways more, is a consequence of the Chechenia conflict than a cause for it, because the Chechenia conflict just showed that this area is so unstable that it is not possible, in the short term at least, to imagine stable oil supplies. In this way, it should be in the interests of the Russians to achieve a lasting solution. We have said both from the Norwegian side and from the OSCE that it is only through a political solution, political dialogue, that a lasting solution can be found, so it should be an incentive for the Russians, so that that region can also be used in terms of oil supplies. It can hardly be said the reverse that the oil pipeline is a cause for the Russians' attitude in Chechnya.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e182	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e185	I want to ask Åslaug Marie Haga a question. The lot of progress has recorded, both in the past and – not least – in the harvest, several deficit reports and, among others. economic root of some publicly subsidised theatres. In fact, it has gone so far that the department asked for a new government in the Nordland Theatre. They had a deficit of a total of 3.2 million. SEK of a budget of 16,3 million. kr. What will the Council of State do to clean up these and similar matters? And in the future, the Council of State will make stronger premises for grants, among other things. to our theaters?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e194	It is true, as it is said, that we have had considerable problems with the Nordland Theatre. It was a totally unacceptable regime that was run in relation to financial management there, and the ministry therefore chose to intervene by asking for an extraordinary general meeting. That general meeting will take place on the 30th of this month. The reason why we intervened so hard is that it's totally unacceptable that the institutions don't have their economy in order. We both wanted to address this specific matter in order to make it quite clear where the responsibility for financial management lies, and of course we also wanted to send a signal with this matter to other institutions that economic order in their house must be in place. We also follow up the other institutions very closely. We follow them up through the reporting required by the institutions in relation to the ministry, and we are very aware that there are also other institutions that have not had full economic order in their house. That's why it's a priority matter for the ministry to go into the reports and the accounts that we get.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e202	I thank the Council of State for the answer and for the promise of clean-up, which the Progress Party has wanted for many years. If the Council of State considers it appropriate that the public, i.e. Do the taxpayers subsidise each audience with a total of 721 kr for the regional theatres in Møre and Romesdal, Nordland and Telemark? Do not the Council of State – like the Progress Party – believe that these large sums of money could have pleased many more by, for example: voluntary teams and organizations, struggling with a small pot of money, but nevertheless enjoying and employing very many, especially children and young people, had done much more if they had just received these funds, or at least parts of them?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e209	I am concerned that we should have a varied cultural offer throughout the country. This means that the different forms of cultural expression should be able to benefit everyone, whether they live in Oslogryta or live in more remote areas. I am concerned that people in the districts should also have access to professional theaters, to operas and to the cultural expressions that many associate with the central strata and cities. There shall be no contradiction between investing in the institutions and investing in voluntary organisational work. I am concerned that we should be able to take care of both of these aspects of our cultural policy, and believe that this is necessary in order for us to be able to provide a broad and good cultural offer to all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e216	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e219	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. We hear about people out in the districts who have gotten several kilometers to go to pick up their mail. The new concession for the Item states that the item is to be produced at the place of residence of the recipient unless exceptional circumstances or geographical circumstances exist. How will the State Council interpret this derogation, and does the new concession for the Post involve a change from the past?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e228	The adjusted concession for the Post is a result of Storting's treatment in ours and the relationship with EU postal directives. This means, in other words, that the wording used and now quoted is consistent with what is used in a number of other countries. At the same time, it has been explained to the Storting that, following the assessment of the Post and Telecommunications Authority, we do not see the use of the assembly stands made in previous years as a breach of the concession. With regard to the interpretation of the concept itself, it is up to the Postal and Telecommunications Authority to follow this up. Infringement of this interpretation will have to be reported to EU supervisory authorities when they occur. It's the Ministry of Transport that does it, and it's natural that we do it every year. If there's a question of whether this is a tightening compared to the previous one, then the wording is a tightening.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e237	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Can I then perceive the Council of State in that way that there is really no change in the concession provisions themselves, but that it is only in the wording, and that this will not lead to a better offer for people out in the district?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e244	There are significant changes to the adjusted concession. This is one of the points mentioned. There are also significant changes on the financial side. This has been demanded by the Post and Telecommunications Authority for a long time. When it comes to meeting the special point that was asked about here, the interpretation of distance in deliveries – it is particularly in the West this has been a problem and a challenge – I will await the contact of the Postal and Telecommunications Authority with the Post before we proceed with the matter. But it is clear that in this context, the Post Norway BA is a separate company that carries out the postal policy of Stortinget and the Government. It is this house that determines how the postal policy in Norway should be, and Posten Norge BA are the ones who are going to do the job, so there is a significant difference.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e251	There will be follow-up questions – Eirin Fallet.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e254	i is well aware of the situation in Post BA, and the Council of State has also pointed out that there should be no worse offer to people. I can mention examples that people have to go six or seven kilometers to pick up their post on a assembly stand. The discussion doesn't go on the assembly stand, but whether it's reasonable that people who may be bad at the legs have to go six or seven kilometers. That's what this is about. My question is therefore whether there is any possibility of letting people around in the districts who are pensioners, sick or old, get their mail closer than seven kilometers away. That's really what people are concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e261	It's not fair that you have to go six or seven kilometers to pick up the post office. This is my immediate assessment. When I say that I want to wait for contact with and control from the Post and Telecommunications Authority in relation to Post Norge BA, it is because this follow-up and control have been suspended until the adjusted concession came. Now is the time to get to the goal of this. It is also the case that there are exceptions and opportunities to make local assessments. The post Norway BA is a service company, should act as a service company and do the job that this house requires them to do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e270	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e274	I need to ask an additional question, because I got a little confused. Now the Council of State says that the wording of the concession has changed. I interpret it as not necessarily changing the reality, but clarifying it by the Post and Telecommunications Authority. Just after the concession was formulated, the Director of the Consumer Council, Per Anders Stalheim, sent out a press release where he struck his chest and said that he had got an impact on all his demands. And the press release says that assembly stands are still to be used, but they have to be located near the customer's residence, not at several kilometers away. I perceive the Council of State that this is not necessarily a consequence of the concession given by the Council of State, but it may be a follow-up. Is it not the case that the Council of State today concludes that this is the case?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e283	This is partly due to the fact that, as a supervisory body, the Post and Telecommunications Authority will have the opportunity to do the job assigned to them. Governments may have strong and clear opinions on this point. He'll keep it to himself for another while. When it comes to the question of whether this is a tightening relative to the previous one, the answer is yes, it is. The previous handling of assembly racks has not been interpreted as being incorrect or illegal, but it is the future follow-up that is a tightening of past practice. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e290	We move on to the next main question – Erik Solheim.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e293	It hardly surprises me that my question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Tomorrow, the central leaders of the Serbian opposition will come to Norway, and the question is briefly what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has to offer them, because after nearly 10 years of war and conflict in the Balkans, the situation is not particularly bright. No one really sees any ‘grand design’ that can solve the problems, but if one were to point out one element that would at least dramatically reduce the conflicts in the Balkans, there had to be a democratic development in Serbia. As I see it, the key link itself is. The dilemma is that the means we have used to strengthen the Serbian opposition, sanctions against Serbia, they don't believe in themselves, so we're helping them to say against their will. I know that Norway has started some less relief in the sanctioning regime, but the question is whether it is now possible to imagine a far wider opening in this sanctioning regime before winter. It would facilitate the humanitarian situation in Serbia, and as the Serbian opposition sees it, it would also help them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e300	It is true that we will have prominent leaders for the Serbian opposition to Norway tomorrow. In the first place, there aren't so many questions about what I want to offer them, like what they want. Then I'll listen and see how I can follow it up both as Norwegian Foreign Minister and as Chairman of the OSCE. One of the areas that I think we should look at is the area of sanctions. But it is very interesting that we have just received reports from our embassy in Belgrade in connection with this visit tomorrow, after they have had conversations with a number of opposition politicians, including some of those who come tomorrow, where the view of sanctions is not as clear as the representative Solheim is now expressing. There are, among other things: express the fact that the sanctions now – not just the lifting – will be released, just to be recorded in Milosevic’s hands. This is something we need to discuss tomorrow, because I think it is very important that we here do not do anything that the opposition will feel like going against their wishes. However, some of the things they point to, which has been our approach, that of supporting the cities of the opposition, are questioning some of them. They say that it's not so clear which cities the opposition has control of, and where Milosevic has control, and that it can be exploited, if one looks at it from a humanitarian point of view, that here we take political considerations. The problem with Serbia is, unfortunately, that the situation is very diffuse, very complex, and there is a weak opposition that does not agree with each other. But we have to listen to them, we have started humanitarian actions, they will continue, including oil deliveries, and then we have to see what we can do to follow up the process of democratisation politically.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e309	I consider the answer to be essentially positive. The situation of the population of Serbia has two sides. One is the humanitarian side, which is hopeless. There are hundreds of thousands, I don't know exactly numbers, of refugees who are victims of the policy of their own political leadership – from Croatia, Bosnia, Kosovo, etc., and they need help before winter. It is a humanitarian aspect that is independent of what we think about the Milosevic regime. Then we have it politically, and there is no doubt that the sanctions were launched without really listening to the Serbian opposition. Now, if you get into a track where we're actually listening to them, they're still weak, and go into a dialogue with them about the design of this, so that they can at least believe that this contributes to the democratization of Serbia, it's going to be a new and positive phase. I would encourage it to be laid down further. We have tried to boycott a number of countries in the world, and looking at Iraq, the seventh and last most of us have come to the conclusion that it has strengthened the dictatorship rather than weakened it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e314	I agree with the representative of Solheim that it is important to listen to the opposition, and I think it is a way to promote the process of democratisation that they are made visible as active participants in a political process. There was some background to me being the OSCE President at a meeting held in Istanbul, where very prominent opposition politicians from Serbia, and also President Djukanovic from Montenegro, were given a platform to present their views to the participants at the summit. The initiative came from President Havel. I think it is very important that we in the European countries now commit ourselves to facilitating conditions, supporting the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e319	There will be follow-up questions – Dag Danielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e322	I thank the Foreign Minister for a reflected and balanced response on his view of the use of sanctions. My follow-up question concerns this with the role of our allies. While it is clear that the role of the opposition is of great importance in the assessment of such a question, it is equally important, in the view of the Progress Party, that Norway also attaches great importance to the role of our allies in the application of sanctions. What I would like an assurance of is that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to the same extent, and perhaps to a greater extent, also places emphasis on what our allies, not least in NATO, say on the issue of the use of sanctions – this is also seen in the light of the point that the sanctions have already been imposed. Removing the sanctions at this point is probably the craziest signal you can give.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e327	I can assure the representative Danielsen that we are in close contact with our allies and also with other countries that are active actors on the issue of the use of sanctions. It has been believed that if Norway imposed sanctions, the bad regimes fell to the fore, but this has proved not to be the case. It is also of very little importance if Norway, as the only country, were to lift some sanctions, it would have very little effect. Here we must stand together, here we must have a common position. It's just the way it'll have an effect on Serbia, and also as a support device on the Serbian opposition. Of course, it is very important that we constantly assess what can support democratic forces and what supports the Milosevic regime, and we do so in close cooperation with NATO, the EU and the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e332	During the Kosovo action, the most important weapon that NATO had, a cohesion in the alliance, was that it was not the slightest resort to division between NATO countries. The current situation is completely different, and in my view there is also room for more debate between the various European and US partners on the future in the Balkans. I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that unilateral Norwegian actions are not current, but Norwegian initiatives may be relevant to change policy if one thinks it is necessary. If the opposition in Serbia, and then I would say the democratic opposition, would gather around a strategy to lift sanctions in certain areas, it is not appropriate to remove sanctions against Milosevic and his people, but if one were to gather about such a policy, then I assume that it would be relevant for the Norwegian government to take such an initiative. I then distinguish between the democratic opposition and the opposition in the former Yugoslavia with which we have no contact.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e338	We will absolutely listen to what the opposition says and in the light of it evaluate our attitudes and our initiatives. Now we've already engaged. The forthcoming oil deliveries to at least two cities in Serbia are just such an initiative. And we've been lying in front of some other countries. In connection with a visit I made to Greece, I also discussed with the Greek Minister for Foreign Affairs the issue of lifting the flight ban. I have later launched it in environments that have greater impact than our own on this issue, because I believe that it might be a way of promoting contact. And then we can use the visa regime to control who's going to get out of Serbia, so we'll actively look at how we can also use sanctions to promote democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e345	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e348	To the Minister of Transport: if there is no large-scale development of public transport in the capital area, the traffic in the area will increase sharply over the years to come. That was the reason why the Stortinget asked for a plan to be drawn up for the development of public transport. The plan has been drawn up by State and local authorities. It was presented to the Government two years ago. The government has not yet submitted the matter to Stortinget. It is totally unacceptable that the country's main transport policy measures are floating around without political governance. Can the Council of State assure that the matter will be brought before the Stortinget before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e355	I fully agree with the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen that Oslopakt 2, which is the name of the project, is the most important collective effort in the Oslo area ever. Therefore, it is so sad that the description given by the representative is not quite correct in time. There is no overall plan from two years ago. There is only one recording of a proposition in February of this year. We are missing, as explained in the proposition, important decisions from Akershu County and Oslo. Therefore, the Government and the Ministry of Transport have not taken the opportunity to await these local decisions, but have already anticipated the events by entering text into the proposition for next year under the title ‘Resourced public transport development in Oslo and the Akershus region – Oslopaktor 2’. The requested project is mentioned on pages 94, 95 and 96 of the Ministry of Transport's budget proposal. It's for treatment in Stortinget. Under the heading ‘Public transport measures’, the T-banaging is addressed on pages 115 and 116. The government has added money to both of these projects, and is ready to trigger them when we get the necessary decisions. We now need the decisions to present the financing part of Oslopackak 2 to the Stortinget, as we have announced this November. The decisions of the local level are still missing. In accordance with the requirements of the Storting in respect of user payments, they shall be adopted locally before they can be promoted. We've been praying for three months after summer and four months before summer to get this. We have the belief that this will be resolved not too long, but on the part of the Department and the Government, we are ready to promote the financing part as soon as we have these decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e362	An overall plan was presented in the autumn of 1997. If I don't remember completely wrong, the work was led by the road manager in Oslo. If the Council of State does not have the document, I shall be allowed to produce it. In addition, I must be allowed to stress that I have no problems reading the budget. The problem is what's not in the budget, or what's in it. It says that it will be difficult to present a proposition in the autumn of 1999. Here we're dealing with the dog and tail. The State will not commit until the municipality has done so, and the municipality will not commit until the State has done so. Would it not have been a good idea for the Council of State and local authorities to sit together and come up with a mutual commitment, which can then be presented both for magnification, for local government and for filling up? But leadership is required. We cannot continue with a situation where the municipality owes it to the state, and the state owes it to the municipality. This is a matter that requires political leadership. And isn't it a major problem here that the Council of State does not exercise the leadership necessary to bring this matter forward?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e371	I don't think that's right. There have been a number of meetings, and it is now only on a formal decision, which the Stortinget has always called for when user funding is to be determined, namely that local decisions have been taken. Everything else on the financing side is in place. In addition, it is important to point out that the proposition states that the municipality – in this case the municipality of Oslo – has responsibility for the building and development. There's these two points that are left over. We're ready and we've put money in. We are ready to contribute to the state road safety in the T-banning project. In other words, the amounts lying there and the good will to move forward are signalled in the budget despite the fact that Oslopack 2 has not yet been dealt with in this Chamber. We, on the part of the Government, would simply not be waiting for the decisions. If they came after New Year's, it would be too late.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e380	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e383	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister for Transport. Last winter Gardermoen had great problems with ice and some snow. It was a long time during a normal winter. It was due to the fact that the airport was new and that there were major entry problems. Now winter has begun. The other day we had a few inches of snow, and there was a little rain that froze on the ground. The fact that the ice remains on the track has now repeated several times. The planes go back and forth in the air – a few days ago it was probably an hour and a half they had to float up there. Was it never assessed when the aerodrome expansion was at the level stage, that you had to put heat cables on the runway? It is common in all other countries in the same latitude — even further south.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e392	I cannot explain to what extent thermal cables on the runway were assessed, so I ask the representative to understand that I have a handicap. On the other hand, I recognise that we have had challenges – very major challenges – during the Gardermoen drive-in period – it is visible to everyone – like many other airports in an entry-in period. If you subtract what is common entry problems, we are left – I would stress – with problems that we need to be better at dealing with. This is added up to now in winter. Big investments have been made for the winter coming, to avoid what happened last winter. However, we have a few difficult areas. It's hard to predict the weather, and one of the problems we're experiencing today is fog. Fog we had at Fornebu, and fog we have at Gardermoen. It slows down traffic. We don't have to close the airport, but the distance between the planes has to be greater. From 1 September we got another approach system in place that makes us better off now than we did last winter. In the case of snow-removal equipment, we are well on track. We want it in place – with increased capacity – after New Year. In other words, a lot of work has been done for the winter coming, a lot of money has been laid down, and everyone is doing their best to ensure that the Gardermo will work maximum. Then, of course, I finally admit that the weather does not belong to the Ministry of Transport. It means, in other words, that this challenge is the Council of State not capable of taking.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e403	I don't live so far away, and we've been aware that being at the Gardermo is the way it is, so it shouldn't be a surprise for anyone, nor for a government council. But what's common practice at other airports is that you're a little better prepared than you've been here. It's a very ordinary thing to put thermal cables on runways in other countries at these latitudes. So now you have to solve the same problem you had last year, bought even more new, big machines to take the snow, and you've hired even more crew. Has there never been any calculation of what it costs in delays for people, versus having so much crew?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e412	Continuous calculations are made. Let me now correct a negative impression that is constantly spreading about our new main airfield, namely about regularity. We are one of the peaks in Europe in terms of regularity at the main aerodromes. The Gardermo can be proud of the regularity of the last quarter. Then we're facing the challenges in winter. We're going to make it better this winter than we did last winter. If this means that heating cables are the solution, I do not dare have the final answer to today. If I get to pass this on to the airport management and get back to Stortinget with a concrete answer to this question, it will be done within a reasonably short time. But I think we are much better able to deal with winter conditions at the Gardermo now than we were a year ago.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e420	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Johnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e423	Can the Council of State brief us on what improvement measures will air passengers benefit from this winter?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e428	It's a number of things. This applies, inter alia, to: exit de-icing, i.e. at the ‘gates’, better snow clearance, better de-icing access and the use of better approach and landing systems. In other words, the sum of this makes us ready in a completely different way than we did a year ago, and in sum, the solution should be good. I again make reservations about the weather, which we cannot do so much in Norway, nor in Gardermoen. It will be an obstacle to us also to the winter coming – both on the fog side and a little on the winter side.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e435	Then we take off for the next main question. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e438	I am going to relieve the Minister for Transport of the weather, it has ridden the Ministers for Transport before. I want to address the issue of postal services, or the failure of postal services, and remember that when the Stortinget passed a new postal law in 1996, both the Ministry of Administration and the Competition Authority stated that the best thing for consumers was that there was competition in all postal services. The party of the Council of State, and the majority of the majority of the population, then chose to oppose the Competition Council and to ensure that postal services should be ensured in other, better ways. At no time has Post been in the vicinity of achieving the degree of delivery promised by the majority at that time. Nevertheless, I understand that the Council of State is still a strong opponent of opening up competition and purchasing services, as is done in a number of other countries. Can I get the reasons for why buying services in this area is so much more difficult than what you do in other areas, for example. in aviation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e447	The item is exposed to enormous competition today. The exclusive right is left only in a small segment, and it's by letter up to 350 grams, essentially. When I say essentially, it's because this exclusive area and the revenues there, along with what the government pays for unprofitable postal services, are going to be involved in ensuring that we have a comprehensive postal system in the country, which covers the whole country and provides satisfactory postal services. So the question is, doesn't the Council of State believe that free competition in all areas will provide equally good services? The majority of the population has not considered that all parts of the Post should be put out to competition. I share that view, because at country level we need to get a coverage that reaches out to all parts of the country. In competitive areas in the postal sector, it turns out that those competing are concentrating on people-rich areas, focusing on profitable segments, which are naturally competitive. They don't need to think nationwide, and they don't need to think the whole segment. In addition, due to the fact that the Post has received and retained this exclusive area, we have been able to oblige the Post to have a fair coverage of newspaper supplies across the country – I could mention a number of things more – in other words, some of the requirements they have to fulfil as a result of their exclusive rights in the letter area up to 350 grams.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e454	With the reasoning described by the Council of State, it will also be impossible to pay for short-distance services, but it is not. It's quite true, as the Council of State says, that it's clear that you're not paid for it, you're competing for the profitable segments. However, buying services that are considered necessary by the public is an accepted practice in Norway and a number of other countries, just not in this area. Why is it that the EEA Directive actually requires universal postal services to be available every working day, and at least five days a week, while the Council of State cannot promise the same throughout the country? My question is: why has the Ministry not dared to notify the ESA postal service in Norway and the new concession scheme, as has been done in other areas? In other words, it is likely that ESA will come back later and say that this is not consistent with the directive.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e465	I think we go further than the ESA requirement. We maintain the requirement for six days of delivery, both collection and delivery, we also maintain the requirement that this should be nationwide and that we have a single sport in the exclusive territory of the whole country. In other words, I want to claim that ESA's requirements are met, and I guess so. If concession conditions were to be broken, it would be the postal and telecommunications supervision that checks and follows up on this in the first round. Then we will have to report this to the EEA and EU Supervisory Body, and that will be done. I told you before today that Posten Norway BA is a service company. It should be an instrument for this house in postal policy. At least I'll be there to make sure that happens, and it'll be followed carefully that the concession is respected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e472	There will be follow-up questions – Ansgar Gabrielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e475	For consumers in Norway, both private and business, basic services such as banking, telecommunications, transport and mail are of course very important. As far as telecommunications services are concerned, we've got the monopoly lifted, we've got a competitive Telenor, and we actually have some of the cheapest telecommunications services around the world. It is a competitive advantage for Norwegian business. In postal services, mail is still faster than in bottle mail, but more than a quarter of Norwegian mail comes too late in relation to the requirement set. In our neighboring country, it's 98 pst. punctuality, while we're between 70 and 75 pst. There is no doubt that developments in telecommunications services are linked to the abolition of the monopoly. [[The President clubs.]] The Council of State just pointed to the monopoly that he holds and defends. Why don't we make the change on the post page too complete?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e484	The President asks the representative Gabrielsen to stay within the time allotted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e488	He'll try to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e493	I'm not saying that for all eternity – and it might be a definition issue – there can't be a new competitive situation, but I don't see the current competitive situation in the foreseeable future. With regard to the question of whether we are able to enforce the requirements they want and the conditions imposed by the Stortinget and the Ministry for the fulfilment of a good postal service here to the country, I cannot answer anything but that we have taken into account in the adjusted concession, where we have set an absolute limit of delivery reliability of 85 p.m. If you fail to comply with it, there will be access to sanctions. We still have as our target a delivery overnight at 93 p.m., and over three days at 97 p.m., like other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e500	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e503	I'll be allowed to ask the Minister of Culture a question. Civil servants are not allowed to work in museums, says Tor Nymo, the Minister of Culture's party trap, understood that this is not peacemaking. The background for this is a note in 1996 concerning the treatment of civil service obligations by the Judicial Committee, in which a majority would insist on the system used, the number of civil servants employed in cultural institutions. The representative Nymo opens enough for civil workers to be allowed to work among children and young people in the cultural sector, but the border is at museums. In fact, in the view of the Workers' Party, there is a great deal of peace in the cultural sector. [[The President clubs.]] My question to the Minister of Culture is: Is she of the same opinion as the representative of Nymo, that museums and cultural work are not peace-making and anti-conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e514	The president reminds me again of the time frame.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e517	I'm sorry, President!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e522	For the sake of order, I would like to point out that the responsibility for the civil labour system lies with the Ministry of Justice, but I understand that the issue has a clear cultural policy angle. There is no doubt that a number of institutions in the cultural field would mark it if the civil worker scheme were to be substantially reorganised. A number of concerns have been raised by various institutions and bodies about this. And what that situation shows is how dependent a number of cultural institutions have actually become on this scheme. My wish is, therefore, to make as much use as possible of civil servants in the cultural field in the future. I hope that this will be possible, and that, within the definition on which tasks can be assigned to civil servants, we could have a fairly large proportion of civil servants throughout the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e529	I thank the Minister for the positive answer. The working party is also very concerned about solving this. There are, among other things: in Auschwitz built peace museums your school students from Norway election campaigns to just get into the war story, and they come back and say: never more war! I think many institutions in Norway also have that way of working. That is why it would be disastrous for the civil servants who are going to be on duty to refuse to participate in Culture-Norway, which has just this peacekeeping way of working. My question is: Will the Minister of Culture convince his or her colleague in the Judicial Committee on Peace-Preventing and Conflict-Preventing Sovereignty? I hope so.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e538	There will undoubtedly be an interpretation question of what might lie within the concept of ‘peacemaking’. As I expressed in my first answer, I hope it will be possible to base a broad definition of that term. Whether I will be able to convince my party colleague in the Justice Committee about this remains to be seen, but I would not believe that Tor Nymo and I in this matter are very disagreeable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e545	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e548	I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Culture, or perhaps on this occasion it is more right to say the Minister of Sport. My question is linked to the boundary between sport and business, or perhaps the combination of sport, industry and business. It can be very difficult in many cases, especially when it comes to sports such as bowling, billiards, gym, etc. But it has gradually become important to clarify this according to municipal planning. Does the Council of State, for example, consider that sport-related industries can be defined as industry/business, or does the Council of State consider this to be concrete and regulated as a sport area?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e556	A number of questions relate to the field that was just mentioned. I myself am very concerned that we must be able to find the boundaries between sport and nutrition. I want to mention a topic, which has also been in the press lately, where I feel that this distinction does not necessarily become very clear, and it goes at the events that are established between, for example. Norwegian Sports Association and SATS. We have also been mentioned in the press of the cooperation established between the Norwegian Business Sports Association and the training centre chain FRISK. The problems mentioned by the representative are also related to the type of issues we face in the cooperation between sports organisations and the commercial chains. I'm concerned that we're going to be able to keep these lines clear about what's the voluntary sport, and what's going on. And there's an important borderline that I'm going to do in the message that's being presented to the Stortinget about sports policy, and that we're going to present before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e563	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Nothing really came out of it, and I understand this is very difficult, as the Council of State was about to do. To try to make it a little bit simpler, I'll give you a concrete example. In fact, it is from my own municipality of residence, Levanger, where an area is regulated for industry, warehouse, business, offices and the like. The owner of the premises within this regulated area is now seeking to launch a bowling hall in co-location with other commercial activities, including: media. The building manager of Levanger has said that this cannot be done according to the regulatory plan because bowling cannot be defined under the above categories. I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that Helge Ruud in the Norwegian Sports Federation per. Telephone has confirmed that bowling is defined as sport, recreational services, which are operated on a commercial basis. Does the State Council share Helge Ruud's conclusion, or is it such that in this case the municipality must specifically regulate all business-related sports as a sports area?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e572	I do not know the specific matter. Therefore, I do not want to comment on the particular case either; we would like to communicate it in another way when I have checked the actual conditions around it. But I repeat what is my starting point, that we have to be able to distinguish carefully between the voluntary sport sector and what is a commercial piece that has evolved in the health and sports fields, and we have to be extremely careful not to mix, for example. funds going to the voluntary organised sport of the commercial activity. That's what I want to say to the question. I would like to return to the specific matter. I am concerned about the issue, and I want to follow it up in the sports message.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e577	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e582	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 2 and 3 from the representatives of Liv Marit Moland and Karita Bekkellem Orheim, respectively, to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Questions 5, 6 and 7 from Bendiks H. Arnesen and Steinar Bastesen, respectively, to the Minister for Fisheries, will be moved and answered at the request of the Council of State in response to question 27, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 20, from the representative Einar Olav Skogholt to the Minister for Health, is absent, as the questioner is not present. Question 25, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Labour and Administration, will be answered by the Minister of Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister of Labour and Administration, who has been away. At the request of the Minister of Church, Education and Research, the question will be moved and answered in response to question 17, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 26, from the representative Ivar Kristiansen of the Minister of Labour and Administration, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e602	I'm going to ask the Prime Minister this question: ‘The creation of a centre for studies of genocide and holocaust in Quisling’s old driving home Villa Grande is an important national initiative. Such a centre may continue the ideas of Jewish settlement and play an important role in warning future generations. Will the Government contribute to the implementation of the idea?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e611	The government welcomes the idea of a centre for studies of genocide and holocaust in Quisling's old home Villa Grande. Such a centre may be of importance both as a continuation of ideas from the Jewish settlement and for the work on human dignity, human rights and minority rights. As you know, the government has provided for the sale of Villa Grande in St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99, i.e. in the State budget. The revised national budget made a budget change as a result of a reduction in the estimated value of the property from 110 to 70 million. kr after it was declared protective by the Riksantikvaren. Later it turned out that it was also not possible to obtain this price for the property. The government therefore decided to withdraw the property from the market. Shortly after the Government’s decision, a bid of 60 million was made. kr on the property. This bid was later raised to 70 million. kr. Based on the fact that it now seems possible to achieve the price estimated in the revised national budget, the government has therefore decided to sell Villa Grande. The government will help all stakeholders to submit bids on the property. The government is aware that the University of Oslo, among others. After contact with the Mosaic Religion, the possibility of using Villa Grande for the intended ‘centre of study of the position of Holocaust and life-synthesis minorities in Norway’ is assessed in the extension of the Jewish settlement. The government sees this as an interesting opportunity, and therefore it should be given reasonable time to work on whether a grouping can be formed that could offer a bid for Villa Grande in view of such a centre and such a purpose. This may require going beyond the turn of the year. The Government will therefore, in its proposal on the new aging of the 1999 budget, which will take place in the Council of State on Friday 3 December, give a more detailed description and assessment of the sale of Villa Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e629	I'm going to thank the Prime Minister for the answer, which I see as absolutely positive. This is a historic opportunity we have to use a building with a huge symbolic power, Quisling's old chauffeur, to something that is absolutely necessary, namely a center for the study of something as current as genocide, and, at the same time, the clear connection to the Holocaust and the greatest crime in modern Norwegian history, namely that the Nordics contributed to massacres of almost a thousand Jews during World War II. This combination, just adding it to Villa Grande, is something that should be able to get a lot of excitement in Norway, and which I am pleased that the Government will contribute to. Selling this to Evening Post also gives a very bad bismach – let's not say that. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will the Government be willing to contribute financially in some sense to achieve this? And will one ensure that the grouping of stakeholders now gets so long that they can actually get the work out this thoroughly?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e638	Let me first say that I agree with the representative of Solheim in what he said about the meaning both symbolically and effectively by establishing such a centre in exactly Villa Grande. With regard to the issue of financial contributions, there are of the things the Government will have under assessment now in contact with relevant stakeholders who might go in and contribute to the realisation of such a centre, and bid it. It is clear that they also need sufficient time to organise such a grouping, for example. whether it would take the form of a foundation. The Minister of Labour and Administration will therefore come back later to the time limit for a new bidding round. On the basis of the positive assessment of the Government’s realization of such a centre, sufficient time must be allowed for the interested party to have the case assessed and organised.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e645	I thank you again for the answer, which is still very positive. I think now it's a realistic opportunity for us to do this. I also believe that when the Storting in its time dealt with this matter and provided the basis for what the Government has done, it was without really thorough consideration of the cultural, historical and other aspects of Villa Grande. It was perceived as a general building, and looked at the possibilities of income for the state treasury. It's affordable enough, but a country also needs institutions. I'll have an extra question. I believe that there will now be a reasonable time frame – it is very positive – and that it is also an opening for any money contributions. It's also very positive. The last thing that remains is to ensure that there is sufficient coordination. Coordination of both public and private stakeholders is needed. Coordination between different departments is needed, as many will be involved in this. I just have to ask that the Prime Minister confirm that such coordination will take place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e654	I can confirm that I am aware that there is a coordination of various stakeholders that might go in and form a grouping, which can then in the next round place place place a bid at Villa Grande which, hopefully, can match other current bids. What also makes such a thought interesting is that one here can't just get a center and a documentation, for example. of the history of the Jews in Norway and the Holocaust, but also an international department thereof. This means that there may also be international groupings that may be interested in entering and contributing to an organisation, possibly a foundation, that can submit a bid on Villa Grande. We are following this and we are aware of it, and we will ensure that a reasonable period of time is allowed for these to assess the situation and, where appropriate, organise themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e681	These questions have been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e687	It's not going to be a habit to have all the questions. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is as follows: ‘Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs see the possibility of new measures to contribute to a peaceful settlement of the conflict in Chechnya and to remedy the sufferings of the victims of the war?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e696	The campaign in Chechnya has led to a very serious and growing humanitarian problem. More than 200,000 people are driven on the run. Most of them have sought residence in the neighbouring Republic of Ingushetia, how many live under very difficult conditions. In the light of the alarming humanitarian situation, the international community has called for a political solution with the assistance of the OSCE. Russia has, as it is known until recently, rejected this, having regard to the fact that it is an internal Russian matter. It is therefore positive that, at the OSCE Summit in Istanbul last week, Russia underlined the need for a political solution, recognising that the OSCE can contribute to this and welcoming the OSCE's offer to contribute to the launch of a political dialogue between the parties. The Summit declaration must be followed up as soon as possible. It's going to be a difficult problem. First of all, I am aiming at a meeting with my Russian colleague Igor Ivanov as soon as possible, even though it seems very difficult after the latest information I have received. In addition, the Presidency has had and will continue to have contacts with legally elected representatives of the population of Chechnya. Dialogue with a view to a political solution must, in the opinion of the OSCE, also involve these. In Istanbul, Russia also accepted, as it is known, a visit by the OSCE President to North Caucasus. I aim – and hope to continue – to be able to carry out this visit at the beginning of December. In my view, it is important that the programme also includes a visit to the Chechen area, and I assume that the Russian side will facilitate this. A meeting with my Russian colleague will give rise to a further discussion of this and other aspects of the visit. As mentioned, the humanitarian situation in the Caucasus is alarming. In Istanbul, there was a consensus that better provision should be made for international assistance. I will continue to maintain close contact with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Red Cross Committee on this matter. In this respect, let me add that Norway has now made a total of 10 million. kr for humanitarian actions in the North Caucasus in connection with the Chechenia conflict. But of this, only 5 million. DKK paid, with 2.5 million. kr each to UNHCR and Red Cross. The allocation of additional humanitarian aid funds will now be assessed in the light of the recent UN needs analysis and, in particular, the possibility for organisations to channel funds into the area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e713	I have little to say about the efforts of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to try to meet Ivanov, and the pressure that is being put on to play a role on the part of the OSCE. It is positive, but, as everyone understands, difficult. Let me go a little further in the humanitarian situation. As I see it, the conflict in Chechnya is relatively unique in the world by the fact that no international relief organizations are in an area of several hundred thousand refugees, at all, no international relief organizations are inside Chechnya either on the Russian side or on the Chechen side. In Ingushetia, where there are 220,000 refugees, there are no international relief workers inside, although the International Red Cross is using local staff. This is due as far as I can understand a mix of political and security considerations. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether one sees ways in which the international community can work to ensure, at least as a minimum, that international relief organisations can enter and assist in the distress that is present.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e722	Although I believe that a long-term solution must be found politically, I fully agree with the representative of Solheim that we must now address the humanitarian situation. And that was why I asked the Russian authorities to accept that the UNHCR and the Red Cross together with the OSCE could do something, especially in Ingushetia. As a result, I was told back by the Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs that the High Commissioner for Refugees had been invited. There has also been contact with the Red Cross. On the OSCE side, we have said that we would like to put our local staff at the disposal. There may be some formal problems with that, but I fully agree with the representative of Solheim that we need to put pressure on Russian authorities to get a formal framework for international presence on the humanitarian side, but in addition to that, we also need to coordinate, the organisations among ourselves, so that we can be as effective as possible, because this is a very serious situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e732	It is obvious that there are not only political problems, but also security problems – two Norwegian women were killed in Chechnya as well. It's of the things that make many relief organizations afraid to go in, because they feel that they can't operate without heavy military escorts. A question arises as to the extent to which it is possible to force the Russians to ensure the relief work at least in Ingusjetia. There we do not have the same political complications as in Chechnya. Now there is an incredible effort made by individuals in Ingushetia. As I have been informed, 160,000 people are privately housed in an area of 350,000 inhabitants. So that's one human per. every other gullet. It's quite unimaginable. I just want to ask if there is any possibility – the Minister for Foreign Affairs was in on it – for increased Norwegian money contributions? Red Cross goes as far as I understand with a campaign today and asks the Norwegian people to collect money, but such a campaign would get a good start if the state also made a contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e741	I can confirm that we would like to contribute further financially. The problem has been that organisations have not had the ability to channel this. It's true that it's approx. 160,000 people or maybe even more who are in families. That's why some of the work that has been done on the humanitarian side has just been to support these families, and part of the money that we have made available from the Norwegian side has been spent on it. Security is a serious problem. In our view and in my view, it could be remedied somewhat if there were several international organisations who had a common arrangement and stayed there together, but there is no doubt that there would have to be an additional pressure on the Russian authorities to get them to provide the necessary guarantees. And after my conversations with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, I know that it is one of the questions she has raised and is still working to get the help of the Russian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e750	Questions 5 to 7 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e756	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘According to Today’s Economy 17 November 1999, Norway is the country in Europe with the largest decline in new car sales so far this year, with a failure of 17.2 p.m. What does the Council of State think is the reason for this?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e765	So far, the new car sale is about 15 pst this year. lower than in the same period last year. Since 1993, Norway has been in the midst of a high economic cycle such as the United Kingdom, Spain and the United Kingdom. has been driven by high growth in private consumption. New car sales have increased during this period and were particularly high from the beginning of 1996 to the first half of 1998. Despite a certain decrease over the second half of last year, in the period 1996-1998, a total of 143 000 cars were recorded on an annual average. This is almost as high as in the record years 1985-1987, when 153 000 new cars were registered on average each year. In the 2000 national budget, the first registration was estimated at 117 000 cars this year, which is about 20 000 cars higher than the average first registration so far in the 1990s. High levels of new car sales over several years have helped to reduce the average age of car populations in Norway, thus also reducing the need for the replacement of old cars. At the same time, there is reason to believe that car purchases are among the most sensitive parts of private consumption to changes in interest rates. The decline in new car sales in Norway must therefore be seen both in the context of last year’s interest rate increases and in the need for further renewal of the car fleet after several years of high new car purchases. Large parts of Europe have been experiencing a recession in recent years, and car purchases have been relatively low. However, one now sees signs of economic growth in several European countries, which has helped to ensure that car purchases have also taken place. This different economic cycle between Norway and the rest of Europe can thus help to explain that car purchases in Norway have fallen, whereas the opposite has been the case in several other European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e774	I thank you for the answer, which I really think was a little surprising. The minister says that we have a reduced need for new car sales in Norway because we have bought so many new cars in the past. I can inform the Minister that in Norway we have the oldest car park in Western Europe with an average of ten-year-old cars, so there is an absolute need to renew the car park. Secondly, I can also inform the Minister that approx. 50 pst. our car fleet has a catalyst. Therefore it is necessary to renew the car park. Does the Minister think that there may be a level of charges that is too high in Norway so that this fleet will not be renewed sufficiently?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e783	To take the question first, of course, I do not ignore the fact that the level of charges in Norway affects the sale of new cars. However, I tried to explain in my reply why new car sales in Norway have fallen in 1999 compared with 1998, and I think that the answer is probably good, with the figures that I documented. When new cars were sold so high in both 1996, 1997 and the first half of 1998 that it gave an annual average of 143 000 new cars, it is far, far above what has been normal in Norway. Normal sales of new cars in Norway in the 1990s have been below 100 000, so new cars will be sold this year, so estimates are that we will sell about 100 000. 117 000 new cars in 1999 — significantly higher than normal sales so far in the 1990s. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e790	The councils will probably get the chance, because Jan Johnsen has asked for the floor again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e793	I thank you for the answer, which I absolutely was not satisfied with. In Norway, it is estimated that about 2 % of all drugrelated deaths are related to drugrelated of the families with three children have an old car, and approx. 92 pst. of the families with two children. So these are driving in the most dangerous cars available. In Norway too, in order to buy a car, you really have to buy two: one for the state and one for yourself. Does the Minister feel that there is a need for a rapid renewal of the car park and, of course, for a significant reduction in the level of charges?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e802	With Johnsen's attitude to taxes and charges, I had not expected my answer to be satisfactory. I understand that Johnsen is not satisfied with the answer. But what I didn't get time for in the previous answer was to say something about environmental considerations. I agree that there is a point to try to limit pollution, but there is no automatic link between replacement rate and pollution – that the faster and more often you replace the cars, the less pollution you get. It is also a significant pollution related to the production of new cars. So there's a question about where the balance point is. I don't think it's a goal for us in Norway to have the same rate of substitution as we do in parts of Europe, where it's obviously negative in relation to the environment that we replace cars as often as we do there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e813	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘In a press release by the Ministry of Finance on 17 November 1999 on a new regulation for the deduction of travel expenses between home and work, it appears that commuters with costs of ferries and tolls less than NOK 3000 are not deducted from the cost. This is contrary to what a unanimous collapse in the state budget said last year. What is the reason why the Council of State chooses not to follow the Storting recommendation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e822	About two million active people have travel expenses between home and work. It is therefore important that the tax rules for such travel costs are as simple as possible and that manual handling is limited to a very small proportion of the tax payers. Deductions should be granted to taxable persons with economically burdensome work trips in addition to the usual. In the 1999 budget, the Government therefore proposed a new and simpler legislation for the deduction of work travel. The model is based on a deduction calculation at the rate per cent. kilometres, irrespective of the mode of travel. No account shall be taken, in principle, of the actual expenditure incurred during the journey. The proposal was unanimously adopted by the Stortinget. The issue of extra costs related to driving was the subject of my letter of 28 October 1998 to the Socialist Group in the European Parliament. The letter states that the Ministry would assess whether the standard deduction of DKr 1.40 per year would be appropriate. Kilometers would be considered to include additional driving costs or whether a greater or lesser reduction in additional costs could be granted to certain categories of drivers. Furthermore, it appears that one in this assessment had to pay attention to the need for simplification, but that one also had to consider the need for a reasonable result. I also see that there are strong reasonable grounds for extra deductions when driving is necessary in order to get to and from work, and this car use leads to higher extra costs for ferry tickets or tolls. However, such a separate deduction must take place within the framework of a practical scheme. It is important that such an additional deduction does not remove the simplification effect of the new scheme. Int. O nr. 16 for 1998-99, the Committee of Finance concluded my opinion that there are strong grounds of reasonableness in favour of extra deductions when the use of the car is necessary and that the use of the car leads to higher additional costs, as mentioned above. In my view, the rules of the adopted regulation are in line with the guidelines outlined. Tax collectors who have costs for ferry or bombs exceeding NOK 3000 shall be deducted from all these costs when the use of a car is necessary, i.e.: when the use of public means of communication increases travel time by more than two hours in relation to the use of a car. When assessing this amount limit, I have taken into account the fact that some taxpayers may have large additional costs in the case of the required driving, while at the same time paying attention to getting a practical system. The scheme ensures that taxpayers with daily costs of ferry tickets or major toll costs are normally deducted from all these costs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e835	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I find unsatisfactory. It was also expected, to this extent, what the Council of State would say. I'm very doubtful that the new system of government here sketches is less bureaucratic than the previous one. On the contrary, a number of specific rules are introduced here, not least special rules for travel over 35000 km, which mean that less red tape and simplification, as intended by the Stortinge, are not necessarily followed up in the new regulation. Nor has the size expressed any special wish for NOK 3000 for which no deduction is made. On the contrary, the Stortinge has just said that you should be paid off for larger expenses. My follow-up question will then be as follows: Will the State Council reconsider the matter, although he clearly believes that this is in line with the Storting assumption? The majority has unanimously said that there was a desire for simplification. That's right. We want to reduce the mileage so that it is harmonised by bus. That's right. But at the same time, there are many significant extra costs – including those that have less than NOK 3000 per person. years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e842	As I said in my answer, I believe, of course, that the regulation adopted is in line with, and does not contradict – as it was actually claimed in the question from the Djupedal – the assumptions of the Stortinget. I think Djupedal's follow-up points a little bit in both directions. If it was the simplification that shouldn't be fooled, you would have to say that the travel allowance is $1.40 per. km, point. That would be the easiest thing to do, but it could produce unreasonable results. That's why we've made some rules of exception. However, in my opinion, there is no doubt that this system is much less bureaucratic, and will mean much more simplification, less work for the equality authorities, than the old system of deductions for travel expenses.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e849	This is contrary to Stortinget's assumption, for Stortinget did not want that kind of excess to be introduced. What Storting has clearly said is that we want a less bureaucratic system and that those who have more expenditure on bombs and ferries should have it deducted. The size has also given its support to a lower kilometre rate in order to achieve harmonisation of public transport and cars. So the main thrust of what has been adopted is correct, but the Storting has not wanted the kind of new bureaucratic rules that are being introduced here. I understand that the Council of State insists that the regulations are in line with what the Stortinget has said. My challenge is not to the Council of State, but to the Government: this must be decided by the Storting, because, in my opinion, this is not in line with what was decided in the State budget last year. SV will somehow come back to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e856	When the Storting said that there should be an additional deduction for larger extra costs, it is of course not good to define what is greater extra costs. But I have tried to assess this and come up with a practical system. If you, for example, to carry a car on a ferry, according to information obtained from the ferry companies, it is not possible to get it without it costing more than NOK 20 per road. Then it is quick to calculate that when you go back and forth, you will already have passed the limit of NOK 3000 after 65-66 days, and then you will get a discount on the entire amount. It is not the case that an extra balance of NOK 3000 is introduced if you have expenses of more than NOK 3000, which is a threshold set out in the regulations. In the case of a bokm, those who have more than NOK 3000 will also receive a full deduction. If you, for example, Here in the Oslo area, using annual cards or subscriptions, it is likely that you will get less than NOK 3000, and in such cases you will not be entitled to a deduction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e869	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture: ‘Despite the fact that both the agricultural topic and the agricultural sector have been opposed to this. 80, point (b) 1 in Støle in Randesund in Kristiansand municipality is liberated from no part, the Ministry of Agriculture has opted for ostrich liberation. Will the Council of State ensure that, in the pact of centuries-long traditions, international law is respected?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e878	As is known, the odel law opens up the possibility of freeing oodels of oodels acquired as additional soils. The person who buys a surplus land use as an additional land has a right to apply for a share-freezing. The applicant is entitled to a specific and individual assessment of his application. Such an application must be determined on the basis of a discretionary assessment of the nobility's interest in solving the property against a rationalisation gain — assessed against the objective of the law — that can be achieved by the release of the property from no part. The Court of Justice has delivered the following opinion on the framework for this balance: ‘In the light of the interests which must be taken into account here, the interests of the judicial institution and the interests of the persons entitled to benefits will have a central place. However, the importance of this consideration will have to vary according to the weight of the opposing reasons for soil rationalisation and on the basis of an assessment of the relationship of the noble good with the property and other circumstances.» Applications for ostrich release shall be evaluated in accordance with the guidelines of the Supreme Court. As long as one does, I can't see that the practice is contrary to the law and the traditions on which it is based. In the specific case the representative refers to, the fact is that the nobility will take the property from an owner who through a voluntary purchase has acquired additional land, which he believes he needs. In addition, the authorities have authorised the purchase because it also provides a good social solution. It is important to stimulate and facilitate voluntary use rationalisations such as this. By freeing ourselves here, we are facilitating the implementation of a private purchase agreement, an agreement that facilitates the proper use of the areas in question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e894	I had feared the worst, but this was worse than fear. The Odel Act shall have a central place, says the Supreme Court. But we also have a different practice in Norway, and that is that local democracy – at least in speeches – should have a certain meaning. The principle of subsidiarity is said in the EU – that decisions should be taken as closely as possible to those concerned. Here, then, we have very clear decisions, both from the local agricultural topic and from the county agricultural topic, which go in one direction: that the right to vote should be respected. I think it's been a long time since I've seen a case in which central power completely outruns local democracy and the locally elected politicians and denominators. I think I simply have to say that this is just central considerations that have to count. Of course, the Supreme Court has said that the right to vote should be weighed against other considerations, and one of the reasons I thought with respect to notifying was the consideration of local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e903	The legislation is structured in such a way that there is an opportunity to appeal against the decisions taken locally. Of course, such a test of a complaint assumes that it is possible for one to arrive at a different result from what has been done locally. If not, the complaint institute is not real. This means that a judgement must be carried out also in the body carrying out the review procedure. That's what's done in this case. It is clear that one in this appeal procedure has focused on the treatment done locally and on the basis of which the decision has been taken. The fact that the Ministry has achieved a different result is that we have a complaint institute that should also be able to function when the Department considers it necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e908	Of course, the Council of State is right to be able to reverse a decision, but there is nothing to be done about it. So here we have, among other things. a county agricultural department, led by a Christian People's Party politician in West Agder, and the vice-president of Kristiansand, from the same party, went contrary to the decision of the Council of State. I just think we're going to maintain that the right you have is not a right to commit wrong. It should also be possible to see that it can be done correctly, what happens locally. I think I will be quite specific: Norway is a centralized country. We have the old statement that God gives an office, he also gives understanding. But is it entirely unmistakable that very little sense also drips on those who administer Norwegian law in municipalities and county municipalities? Is it only when you come up at official level that you know how to make reasonable decisions, decisions that go completely under the skin of individual property rights and property rights, and that have no foundation in what is decided by those who wear the shoe and who must be expected to know the best where it presses?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e921	I leave to the individual to assess the wisdom of decisions. But it is the duty of a Council of State to assess the complaints that come to the ministry. Of course, the Council of State has tried to do as properly as possible, according to the law that exists. Then we have to be aware that the Council of State receives a number of requests from a number of representatives in the Grand Duchy, which go across what you think is the right view of justice. There will also be different perceptions in the enquiries made by the Council of State. Obviously, there's nothing to say that you have to change. It's called that you can. There is an assessment by the Ministry through the review procedure. Of course, we've gone through carefully the facts that have come, both from those who want to have nobility liberation, and from the other party. So this is an overall assessment based on the facts and information we have on the matter. It is clear that it is also important for the other party’s business to make this work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e939	I will ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘In Norway, we have a long tradition of producing mountain butter of the best quality. Last year more than 68 tonnes of butter from the garden and mountain went to animal feed. This is a high-quality product that people would like to buy. In what way will the Council of State help Norwegian mountain butter to be sold again to normal consumers and not as reef feed?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e948	The condition for selling mountain and farm butter produced on farm to food is that production meets the requirements of the legislation. There are two different authorisation schemes for the production and placing on the market of mountain and farm butter. Under the simplest authorisation system, products may be placed on the market locally. Such production shall be authorised by the local food surveillance authority and shall be carried out in relation to own farms or seats. On 22 April 1999 the Milk Regulation was amended so that it is now easier for these producers to sell mountain and farm butter directly to the consumer, while maintaining hygiene requirements. The main change is that manufacturers can now sell their butter through shops throughout the area covered by local food surveillance. In the past, sales could only be made from own farm, square or market. This means that many can now sell their products within several municipalities, provided that the establishment is approved in accordance with the general hygiene rules. If production complies with more stringent requirements, the establishment is authorised by the State Food Authority under the Milk Regulation. The Milk Regulation is part of the EEA legislation. The requirements are common to the whole EEA area, and we are obliged to follow them through the EEA Agreement. The products can be sold throughout the country and in all other EEA countries. I would like to stress that the amendments to the milk regulation which took place at the end of April 1999 give farmers of farm and mountain butter greater opportunities for the disposal of their products, provided that they comply with the requirements of the general legislation. Per. Today no butter producer has applied for such authorisation by SNT, i.e. to comply with the strictest requirements. Authorisation and authorisation, respectively, is a process that may take some time. This may be some of the reasons why only a limited part of the butter has so far been placed on the market for food to people, but the possibilities for authorisation and sale are now available if manufacturers will comply with the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e961	I would like to thank the Minister of Agriculture for the answer, and I would like to comment on what the Council of State said at the end of its speech, that the producer must comply with the legislation. Of course, Norwegian food must be sold with good quality and requirements for proper hygiene. However, hygiene requirements must not be so strict that they do not work in practice. For many small users who make these goods, the requirements are far beyond their financial ability and the ability to earn wages out of the goods they produce. It must be a task for the Minister of Agriculture, in cooperation with the health authorities, to put in place a system through the EEA legislation and food control to enable small farmers to sell their products at a price that provides foresight. Without it, I'm afraid that many of the small customs we have in the West and out along the coast are being laid down in the future. Does the Council of State see the seriousness of this development? Another question: Now we know that Norwegian agriculture is undergoing conversion. What consequences will there be if the small curtains around Norway do not use these niches to sell their product, as they have done in previous years?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e970	I understand that the Council of State and the representative of Kaland agree that there are certain requirements that must be imposed on those who produce food placed on the market. These are then laid down in a legislation applicable in the local area, but also in an EEA legislation, by which one is caught and affected if one is to enter a larger area. I hope that with a reasonable use of the legislation and in relation to how it will work, there can be schemes that do not cost the degrees that lead to the results that Mr Kaland pointed out. I would also like to ask both the SNT and the KNTs as control authorities to contribute to providing guidance in a constructive and good way, so that we can work together to find good enough solutions for individuals to sell their products, but clearly within the framework represented by the legislation. Cooperation here can provide good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e977	There is something I have wondered about in relation to this matter. If the EEA requirements are so strict and the food control in Norway is so demanding, why can I, as a consumer when I am in Paris, go into what kind of storm sickness I want, and buy French cheese that is in the dishes? Is it the case that small users in EU countries are faced with less stringent demands than what they do in Norway? I see that Norwegian Farmers and Small Farmers are shocked that the finest mountain butter ends up as reef feed rather than as party food for most people in Norway. I'm written in this review. I think what's happening right now is quite incomprehensible. I come myself from such a district, and my grandfather bided for such a garden. I know that there was very strict hygiene, and a requirement for that was made. There's been nothing smaller today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e984	If the legislation and hygiene requirements are complied with, there is no problem. I assume that we must also be able to agree that the public is responsible if something goes wrong. The Council of State will then have to answer as to why the legislation is not stricter. In this context, legislation has been laid down, which will ensure that hygiene requirements are met. It is clear that the manufacturers of the goods coming from e.g. France is obliged by the same EEA legislation as it is in Norway, and it is subject to delivery of its goods for sale in Norway in that way that we find them in the store shelves. What is important is that we start a good communication with the licensing authority already at the start-up stage, so that a person gets the right level and the right focus on what is important in terms of regulatory approval.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e996	I have a question for our Honourable Minister of Justice: ‘On President Bill Clinton’s Oslo visit, the Guards in the Mosse District were strengthened by the control of all staff on trains and boats. Increased control efforts resulted in extensive detection of human smuggling. The dimensions of the problem are so large that the Moss police have received assistance from Kripos. What can the Council of State contribute to rectifying the situation on a permanent basis?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1005	Human trafficking and illegal immigration have received greater attention from the police in recent years. Since it has become known that professional criminal organisations, based mainly on profit, are behind organized human smuggling, efforts have been made to prevent such crime. This is also reflected in the statistics. The number of reported human trafficking cases, registered in STRASAK, has increased from 22 reviews in 1995 and 23 in 1996 to 55 cases in 1997 and 49 cases in 1998. For the first half of 1999, 37 cases have been recorded. Overview of arrivals for asylum seekers shows that in 1999 there was a significant increase in illegal immigration and smuggling of Iraqis into Norway, while in the past most of them came from the former Yugoslavia. Preventing and combating trafficking in human beings is an important task for the police. The main border police districts received a total of 3.5 million. to exceptional border controls on the current year’s budget. Of this, Moss got the police district 160,000 kroner. In view of this intensified effort, several cases of human smuggling have been detected during the summer and autumn. The influx of asylum seekers from e.g. Iraq, where we found several cases of human smuggling, has sunk during the fall. Police efforts to detect human trafficking will therefore be maintained in 2000. The investigation has revealed that international human trafficking organisations are behind a large proportion of human smuggling, including to Norway. Human trafficking issues often require special expertise and good cooperation with foreign police authorities. This is why a separate foreign unit was established in 1993 at Kripos for example. to assist the local police in such cases. It is in line with common practice that Moss police districts received such assistance during the harvest, and therefore there is no exceptional measure. I would like to underline the importance of good Nordic and international cooperation in such matters. The sharp decline in the influx of Iraqis is probably due to good cooperation with Norway, among others. police in Germany. It is necessary to further develop information collection and exchange internationally, focusing on the operational part. The Nordic liaisons play an important role here. Similarly, training in document checking, with a view to detecting false or falsified travel documents, is important in such a context. When President William Clinton and other Heads of State visited Oslo in the fall, significant security measures were taken both within the country and at the border. This was an extraordinary situation. The police’s control and resource efforts during the visit were significantly higher than they can and should be in a normal situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1020	I thank the Council of State for the answer. He says that you want to maintain control efforts at today's level. We don't get away from the fact that when William Clinton was visiting here in Norway, of course, a considerable amount of resources were put in for a short period of time, and then a lot of people in the Mosse district tried to get into the country illegally. That means there's considerable darkness here, and there's a part going on in the scenes that's not that good. Some estimate that we have approx. 10 000 people who have come to Norway illegally and who contribute to criminal activity and a black economy — not everyone, of course — but a good part of them — and that is a significant problem. In view of this, would the Council consider including it in the Government if it were possible to increase the deterrence effect by having more frequent controls? It is at least a wish from the officials and those who are involved in this, and you think you can do a better job by getting more resources available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1025	There are several policy instruments that can be used to combat trafficking in human beings. Some of the most important ones I went into. There is, of course, the effort in this country, but there is also cross-border cooperation, and there is no doubt that this intelligence and information cooperation has brought some of the backers behind the smuggling of people with backgrounds from Iraq during this year, so that it underlines how important it is. At the same time, I am concerned that the resources located in the police districts will be used effectively, so in addition to maintaining the efforts for this year and continuing it next year, I have taken the initiative in the near future to discuss with important sections of the police at the border what kind of experience you now have, to see what gives the best effect in terms of effort. The representative can therefore expect that this whole area has a considerable attention from my side, because I perceive human smuggling as a very disgusting mess, which very often places people brought here on false grounds, in an even worse situation than they were initially, when they then have to be returned.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1032	I thank the Council of State for the answer and have more a comment than a question. I fully agree that for many of those who come, there is talk of serious human fortunes. The Iraqis, among other things: They may pay $50,000-60,000 to get from Istanbul to Moss, and when this is discovered, they are ruined. There are deep tragedies, and therefore we should also try to consider making the most possible, and even within Schengen, there is now a great deal to try to limit this illegal traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1040	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The President of the Medical Association, Hans Petter Aarseth, and Biotechnology, have responded to the pilot project currently under way in the context of the reunification process. The background is that the test rules of the day do not seem to be properly discussed. Will the Council of State act in relation to this claim?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1049	I want to take the opportunity first to explain a little general about the DNA project. The purpose of the project is to ensure that we grant a residence permit to those who are entitled to such a permit here in the country. It is a pilot project offering DNA analysis in connection with the application for a residence permit to reunite children and parents in Norway. Only in cases where, on the basis of the information provided in the application, the alienation authorities are in doubt about the correctness of the family situation indicated. DNA analysis can be very sure if there is a biological parent-child relationship. The testing shall be carried out on a voluntary basis and shall be carried out by professionally competent staff. There is a great deal of emphasis on informing applicants and residents about what a DNA test is and what kind of knowledge it can reveal, prior to taking a test. An application cannot be rejected on its own on the grounds that the applicant or the resident does not wish to carry out a DNA test. In such situations, the individual will be called to a conversation where they can give their reasons why they do not want to take such a test. This is then taken into account in the overall assessment on the basis of which decisions were taken in the case. The tests are analysed by the Forensic Institute. The DNA tests shall not be applicable to a genetic test. They shall be treated with the same care as other DNA tests at the Forensic Institute. It also implies following the guidelines given in the Data Protection Authority's concession to the Institute in the case of mutilation. Citizens of Somalia have been selected for the trial project because it is particularly difficult to obtain reliable written documentation on family relationships in Somalia. A DNA analysis can just be the result of an application being granted that would otherwise have been rejected because of the existence of conflicting data in the application. We have not received negative signals from the Somali environment in Norway or abroad. On the contrary, we have received several enquiries from Somalis and their lawyers asking for an opportunity to participate in the project. Among others, the Danish and Finnish authorities have carried out similar projects. They have been considered very successful. The experience from the project here in the country will be assessed over the next year. During the planning of the project, the Department has been in contact with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Department of Forensics, the Medical Association, the NOAS, the Centres for Ethnic Discrimination, the Danish authorities, the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the police. Looking at this background, I believe we have had a thorough discussion of various aspects of the trial project before it was started in October. However, after the recent play of the Medical Association in the media, I have invited them to a new meeting tomorrow, Thursday, November 25.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1062	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. The reason why I asked this question is that we in the Labour Party – with a background in particular. what was pointed out – interested in getting the views of the Council of State on whether this could be a violation of the European Convention on Human Rights. When the Medical Association is so strong that they want to boycott those of their doctors who are part of the trial scheme, we think that there might be a bit of heavy criminal reactions on a trial project that the authorities want to start. I feel that here one mixes in many ways medicine and legal certainty. The first is probably important for the Medical Association, but for the authorities, both medicine and legal security are important, and it is the responsibility here to ensure identification. I feel that, through the answer given, we are sure that legal certainty will remain [[President clubs]] I could imagine asking the Council of State what he's thinking about Biotechnology. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1073	The President will ask for the speaking time to be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1076	To be absolutely sure that I have seen the arguments of the Medical Association, and that you are having a conversation about it, I have invited you to a meeting tomorrow. I think such conversations are better suited than third-source communications, that is through the media – not because the media is not supposed to do their job, but because it's always fruitful to talk to people. As far as the project is concerned, I have explained it. We don't know any review that we're breaking any international conventions. Nor can we see that we are doing anything through the project other than securing what is actually the most important point of legal certainty, namely that the individual receives a fair treatment. The alternative to a fair treatment for the individual is that it receives a random treatment. We are in a situation where we actually lack written documentation. I see in the public debate that I am then asked to use conventional methods. But it's very difficult when we're dealing with cultures and social relationships where, among other things. due to war there is not so much written evidence or easily accessible evidence to deal with. In my answer, I made it clear that I believe that all in all this is to safeguard the rights of family reunification, and not the very opposite, of which one can sometimes get the impression in the debate that has taken place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1087	As I spent too much time instead, I'm just going to confirm that from the Workers' Party's side, it's important that we carry out the test project. And with the background of the meetings that the Council of State might have, he should know that the Labour Party is behind the implementation of such a trial project. I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1097	I have this question to the Minister of Justice: ‘In 1997, a pilot project on safety alarms was launched for women at risk of violence. This system has proved to work well for the 300 women who have received the alarm. However, the alarm package is not good enough because it lacks mobile phone and telephone answering and therefore cannot be used outside. Will the State Council take the initiative to extend the package and will the State Council make the scheme permanent?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1106	The violence alert project has been developed through cooperation between the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, following an initial initiative by the Equality Ombudsman, the current Equality Competence Centre. The scheme was launched on 1 September 1997 and has been in operation for more than two years. By 22 November, a total of 550 persons had had an alarm in periods of varying lengths. Today, 161 people have alarms outsourced. This figure has been almost stable in the last year. The Ministry of Justice is evaluating the project. The feedback from all actors is consistently positive. Increased safety and quality of life are reported for those at risk who have been given an alert. The police are also satisfied with the violence alarms. Alarms are rarely triggered, suggesting a significant preventative effect. On the basis of the positive experience, I have decided that the system of violent alarms should be continued, and the possibility of extending the scope of the alarms will also be considered. This is reflected in the action plan that addresses violence against women and violence in society, which will be presented to the Stortinget tomorrow. When I say we want to assess the scope, it's not a question of whether we should do it, but how we can do it in the best possible way. Because there are different technical challenges that we have to face. But of course, I'm familiar with the need for security that many people can also feel when they're in the public space, and that we've been getting closer to life in many ways through powerful testimonies lately.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1117	I thank you for your answer. I see it as very positive, and I also see it as an area that the Minister of Justice is taking seriously. I am very pleased that the scheme should be continued. I'm also very pleased that he considers extending it to the public space, because it is such that as long as the alarm cannot be used in the public space, it limits women's freedom of movement. Especially do women with children, and that's very unfortunate, to say it mildly. Now I am also aware that this is a technical problem, but the technical problems have been solved in Sweden and Denmark, as I understand. In Sweden, there is a system where mobile phone keystrokes are connected to an alarm station, and this link cannot be interrupted by the perpetrator of the violence. I want to challenge the Minister of Justice to look at the experience of Sweden, because I believe that he agrees mainly with me.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1126	The representative Valle and I are involved in a joint mobilisation in Norway where we support people who have often felt unseen, or even disregarded – which may be much worse – and encourage them to come forward, and I will, of course, take with me the experience that exists elsewhere. Now it is the case that I am the former Minister of Transport and the former owner of Telenor, so I am going to ask with considerable force the technical possibilities available, so that they can be found. So we've had some strong testimonies in this case, and we're using two of these, which were made public, as cases to review them in the department and in cooperation with all the bodies we've been working with, to ask the very close and ongoing question: what do we learn from this, and what do we do with this? It's like this in the country that when something is really close and ongoing, it makes an impression on us all. The representative's questions hit me both in my head and in my heart at the same time. I do mean to express with this response and the action plan presented through the media today, and as the Stortinget gets, that we are willing to take action in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1133	We can probably come back and comment on the action plan. I am very pleased with the attitude expressed by the Minister of Justice. But there is another problem I would like to address, namely that there is a misunderstanding between the number of alarms delivered, and what we know about the extent of violence against women. What we also know is that it's different treatment from the police chamber to the police chamber. What is quite typical is that in those political circles where violence against women is really serious, such as in the case of women. Bergen Police Chamber, it is easy to get an alarm, while at other police chambers we hear that it is difficult to get an alarm. This shows that more information is needed here, both for the police, for the crisis centres, for those who are victims, for the health services, etc., etc. I would like to challenge the Council of State and ask him if he can confirm one thing: it is not the case that there is a budget on whether or not women should be given a violent alarm?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1140	I do not consider this primarily as a budgetary question. I consider it a question that needs to be assessed against the specific situation, and I will, of course, follow up the matter with such a starting point. Through the action plan we have presented, as it is referred to here today, we will also be sure that we will have a spread of the good examples and good action in the whole legal system for which I am responsible, and especially in Police Norway. Then my impression is that there is a high motivation to do so. I can mention as a concrete information here that at the Spring Police Masters' Meeting one of the topics of review will just be violence against women and violence in society as part of this, so that we should be sure that the culture that is good in many places will also be good throughout the country. I think it's will for it, but I think it also needs a good spread of the most important experiences to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1148	We continue on the theme of violence against women. I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘Media redundancies have again shown that women who are subjected to violence do not receive necessary police follow-up, despite the fact that violence against women is one of our most serious societal problems. Sweden has had its own women's violence committee where the police were involved in the work. This has led to a change in attitudes to such issues within the police. Will the Council of State take the initiative to set up a selection which can look at different instruments against violence against women from an overall perspective and where different actors are involved?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1157	In April 1998, the Government decided to set up a cross-ministerial working group between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Children and the Family to investigate measures against violence and abuse. Later, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health also joined the group. The working group has been based on so-called private violence, with the emphasis on violence and assault on women by spouses/partners. The group has looked at the violence, its causal links and areas where there are currently insufficient knowledge. The working group has drawn up an action plan containing measures to combat violence and improve the position of victims, while evaluating measures aimed at the offender. The plan has now been completed and will be sent to Stortinget on Thursday 25 November. The issue of violence requires a broad approach, involving more than one body in commitment cooperation. The focus of matters, such as health, competence, law, police or crisis measures, has often decided today where matters have been anchored. In order to ensure such a broad and general follow-up to the issue of violence, the Action Plan proposes to lay a coordinating responsibility for the country’s further work against violence to one department. Today, the Ministry of Justice has the primary responsibility for combating crime, and it seems natural that this department should be entrusted with such coordination responsibility. Work should mainly focus on prevention, criminal law follow-up and cross-border cooperation with a view to appropriate and comprehensive use of resources. It is proposed in the Action Plan that a position be set up that confers such coordinating responsibility and that, in addition, a cross-ministerial coordination group be set up. Its composition should vary according to the issues to be addressed. The issue of setting up a women's violence committee has been assessed in the context of the plan. In the opinion of the working group, a coordinating position, together with a ministerial coordination group, will carry out very far the tasks envisaged for a women's violence committee, if any. Furthermore, the Competence Centre for Victim Work has been decided to continue for three years and will be entrusted with specific tasks in the fight against violence against women and in the care of their interests as victims of abuse. The Centre of Competence is intended to play an important role in the overall efforts of the departments to combat violence and will become an important cooperation body for the coordinating unit proposed in the Ministry of Justice. This, together with the measures proposed, makes it inappropriate for the working group to propose setting up its own women's violence committee. Otherwise, as the responsible State Council in the Ministry of Justice, I will continuously assess the results of the action plan in order to ensure that both the evidence of female violence and actions against female violence are effective.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1170	I thank you for your answer. I am very pleased that the Government is now presenting an action plan to combat violence against women. I consider it a result of the many years of work done by a number of non-governmental organisations, not least women's organisations and the crisis centre movement. But if we look at the mandate of the group that has developed this action plan, we see that it is based on private violence and abuse by spouses or cohabitants. That's an important part of it. But then there's a number of shortcomings. We can look at the look-up in VG today: What does the Government intend to do in relation to the most marginalized, the prostitutes, those who are exposed to the most degrading and gross violence? What does the Government intend to do with the increasing violence against immigrant women, and will it consider what kind of coercive three-year rule is for immigrant women? I'm asking these questions, because these are complex questions, which have to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1177	The representative is quite right that there is every reason to praise women’s organisations, other non-governmental organisations and the crisis centre movement for what they have done. At least it's made an impression on me, and I want to believe in others as well. It's quite right that these are complex questions. This action plan should therefore be seen in the context of the plan we have made, which will be supplemented before Christmas, which is about forcible marriage. Because there is no doubt that what is happening, for example, is happening. In the case of bigamies among immigrants — although not on a large scale — and forced marriages, they are in practice, cut through everything, mainly about violence against women. That's what this is about. Through the different action plans, we are now just making an effort to see the complexity. We also want to look at the situation of the prostitutes when we get back to Stortinget in connection with the Sexual Law Committee. Now, by putting coordination responsibility in the Ministry of Justice, we're going a step further than a sample, we're putting a political responsibility. By bringing together more ministries, and it may also be different from the ones I mentioned instead — among others. in the context of the representative mentioned – we ensure that we can act where we need to be.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1184	I thank you again for the answer. These problems have been taboo for so many years that there are still many things we do not know and do not understand about the cause of violence and what is driving men into violence. This is why it is very important not just to set up a State Secretaryial Committee, and not just to have a coordination committee – that is good, but not just that – but to bring together all the environments that can carry out research in the future, which can come up with measures and which both assess the measures that are and see whether new measures are needed. This is a problem that we both agree on is taboo, which is complex and which most often contributes to keeping women in place, in a subordinate position. That's why we get involved with this. I ask the Council again to consider a Women's Occurrence, a Women's Violence Selection. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1189	With all due respect, I cannot see that a separate selection can become more effective and more important than if it creates a commitment to cooperation between state councils that are politically responsible for what is happening. It is partly about the action plan we have been talking about now, about the fight against coercion, which I defined as being mainly violence against women, although there are also some young men affected by this, and I agree with the representative that we have marginalised groups that we should look more at. So I think I can say that it's a very strong commitment to the Government and among the governments concerned to follow up. However, I am not blind because there may be other measures we need. If we find that we're doing that, I'm going to promise that we're going to do it too, because we're busy acting and getting to the good actions. We've learned a lot from those who have created those actions. Even we feel that we have taken a step further in the systematisation, and I agree with the representative that there is a lot that is now about to come out into the open, which you have often worked with in silence. There can be violence against women in society, it can be the forcible debate. This is a golden moment, which we just have to hold on to, and the representative can count on me having deep involvement in it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1197	I have a question for the Minister of Justice: ‘The Ministry of Justice has stated that when the church believes there is a peace of the church to be respected, it will not ask the police to pick up church asylumants. The police broke into Carmel Bedehus in Fredrikstad on 15 November 1999 in order to apprehend Louis Nessa without the consent of the assembly. Will the Council of State follow the same practice if an asylum seeker takes Nessa's bed in the prayer house because he does not want to respect the refusal of a residence permit?»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1206	The background to the police's attack in the case referred to by the representative Hedstrom was that Ludvig Nessa had avoided the execution of an indicted sentence by going to cover a prayer house. The decision to address such cases concerns the follow-up of a criminal offence by the police and falls within the scope of the prosecution authority. The same applies in cases where it is relevant to be apprehended in the investigation of criminal offences, or where there is a report from the church against those who are in the church room without the church's consent. Compared with asylum seekers who are in church asylum to avoid repatriation, this is different. Here, there is a question of whether the police should go into action in order to implement an administrative decision, and the Ministry of Justice will normally have full authority to instruct. I would also like to stress that in some cases there are no legal obstacles to apprehending people who are in church asylum, but that Norwegian law applies within the buildings of the church. The Ministry of Justice letter of 4 March 1999 to the police officers provided new guidelines for the apprehension of foreign residents in church asylum who have been given decisions requiring them to leave the country. As can be seen from the guidelines, it would not normally be appropriate for the police to enter churches and prayer houses to carry out attacks on such matters without the consent of the church. This position was also supported by the majority of the Judicial Committee at the Innst. S. No 67 for 1998-99. I stress that the government's practice does not imply any political or legal acceptance of the church asylum system, but is based solely on a desire to respect the church's call to protect church peace.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1222	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I want to grasp the instructions of the police officers he mentioned. The Ministry says that church asylum seekers who are illegally present in Norway, as a rule, are not to be picked up by the police. It is the task of each congregation, if necessary, to ask the police to pick up church occupiers. Thus, each congregation has the power and authority to determine whether there is a breach of the peace of the church, and thus to decide who is to stay in the country, and not the courts that have refused an application for legal residence. If the law is to be equal, does the Council of State not believe that the church asylum should then be abolished as an institution and that it should be left to the ordinary judiciary to make the decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1229	We're talking about two relationships. The question that was asked about Louis Nessa was whether you can go into a church to avoid a condemned punishment. The answer to that is no – you can't. It is quite clear, according to the guidelines I indicated, that you cannot. So the question is, what if you do this to avoid an administrative decision, i.e. under the Foreign Affairs Act? Then this is not a legal institution. But it is such that this government with broad support in the Great Britain has chosen, in a dialogue with the church's organs, to allow the church asylum as a practical arrangement, in respect of church peace and for the holy room. But it is also the case that the structure of the Norwegian Church is built on strengthening local bodies, and if the councils want a different situation, they have all the powers to act as they seem to be right, either by letting someone stay or by asking that the relationship in the church asylum cease. We're basing this on, and I'm not going to change this practice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1239	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘What does the Council of State do to promote equality in the Norwegian school community?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1246	Promoting equality in schools is an overriding educational and research policy objective. Training and education shall provide girls and boys, women and men with the same rights, duties and opportunities in education, family life, working life and social activities, or else. The work on gender equality is facing a number of challenges today. The challenges facing the knowledge sector in general also largely apply to work on gender equality. Can be mentioned especially demographic changenew technologies and new mediachanges in labour marketchanges in social structures and value internationalisation and globalisation KUF has developed a special policy note for gender equality work for the period 1999-2001. The note outlines the problem area and orientation options, and measures have been taken in a number of areas. I can read as follows: mathematics, real science, technology and gender equality non-traditional educational and vocational choices for girls and girls in the university and higher education sectors in the mainstream and in the further education Studies show that girls in Norway often do away with math and other real subjects as soon as possible, and invest little in technological subjects. KUF, in cooperation with the Canadian oil company Norsk Chevron, has launched a nationwide project on girls and mathematics following a Canadian program, Operation Minerva. Gender policy challenges are also linked to ICT. Special measures for girls and women were launched in 1997 and have been followed up since then, for example. the provision of continuing training for female teachers and national conferences such as ‘D@mer and d@ta’. This also applies to a number of school projects, and it applies to information activities, among other things. an inspirational booklet about girls and ICT in the backbone. All of these actions will be followed more broadly in the future. Norway still has a highly gender-based labour market. Despite the high educational level of girls today, they – and, to some extent, boys – have within a traditional professional pattern similar to that of the 1970s. The KUF has been working for several years to change this situation. With regard to admission to basic education at state higher education institutions, the Ministry has decided that women's and male seekers receive two additional points in selected educations which have traditionally dominated our men's or women's. On the basis of the same intentions, the KUF implements, in cooperation with four counties, a three-year project, ‘Conscious educational choices’. Women are today in a number of universities and colleges – as students. But they're poorly represented in fixed scientific settings. The 1997 figures show that the majority of professors make up 11 pst. and among the first amanuens 24 pst. The figures are largely the same in 1999. The Ministry will work hard to change this undesirable situation. A report on women in the academy has been prepared, and the department has proposed changes. The research message discusses a number of measures, such as the ear tagging of options, and a separate study on women in the academy will now be carried out. Several institutions have implemented specific measures to get a greater proportion of women in permanent scientific settings. In accordance with the reform of competences, migrant women are important in their situation. Many of these are illiterate or have very poor education. KUF has now started a survey of the educational level of immigrant women. The custom training arrangements shall then follow this mapping. Equality is integrated into the new curricula. However, this scan still needs to be clearly visible today. The KUF is now developing an equal opportunities guide for the ground and the continuing school. The guide will guide you to the March schools.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1306	I would like to thank the Council of State for his thorough answers. I'm glad he insists that promoting equality in school is an overall educational and research policy objective. As the Council of State said, in Norway, we still have a highly gender-segregated labour market. Although girls today take higher education, and we know that they also come out with very good results, we see that when it comes to career choices, the pattern is very traditional. I think it is positive that the KUF will develop a guide that will make teachers much more aware of getting the gender perspective into school, and then it is also important that the school books appear in such a way that it focuses on equality. At the same time, however, it is important to develop materials that are targeted at the different age groups in the school. It will be very important for the material being used to reveal teachers and students in a way. Finally, I believe that, in fact, [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1317	The President is sorry to interrupt, but the time has come for Lilletun to respond.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1320	The Council of State will only answer that he is agreed in the deepenings that the representative Bekkelem Orheim gave of my answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1325	So we go to question 25.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1331	This question, addressed to the Minister of Labour and Administration, will be answered by the Minister of Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister of Labour and Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1334	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Labour and Administration the following questions – via the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘The undersigned has registered with pleasure that the Government still wants to sell Villa Grande after first having withdrawn the sale only a few weeks ago. It seems to the Council of State that such a procedure strengthens the confidence of the Government when it is known that the property company that has the sales contract worked with several stakeholders when the sale was made, and that they had a bid of 60 million. $70 million now. crowns?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1343	The government has foreseen the sale of Villa Grande in the 1999 state budget. In the context of the revised national budget, a budget change was made as a result of a reduction in the estimated value of the property from 110 million. NOK 70 million. kr after it was declared protective by the Riksantikvaren. The sales process in addition to the harvest resulted in an oral bid of 50 million. kr on the property, and Statsbygg submitted to the Ministry of Labour and Administration the question as to whether it might be appropriate to go into price to sell the property. The government then decided to withdraw the property from the market. Shortly after the Government’s decision, a bid of 60 million was made. kr on the property. This bid was later raised to 70 million. kr. Based on the fact that it now seems possible to achieve the price estimated in the State budget, the government has nevertheless decided to sell Villa Grande. In addition, I would like to refer to the Prime Minister's reply to the representative Erik Solheim earlier today concerning the possible sale and future use of Villa Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1354	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a well-known summary of the actual events in this matter so far. My question was more about the uncertainty, perhaps the wing back and forth, that has been in this matter. It also shows that the departments concerned may not have had enough communication with each other in this matter. It seems strange to me to withdraw the sale because of too low a bid when the company Banco Eiendom was negotiating with several stakeholders, which also resulted in a bid of 70 million. kr. It might also seem that the price might be even higher. I do not want to address the topic for which the property is to be used, but only the uncertainty that this case has been affected. It's not that long since we had another state-owned property, Villa Stenersen, which also created a lot of debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1367	I will first meet the representative of Bredvold at one point, and that is that communication between institutions and institutions can always be better, and it can also be between the Council of State and the Department, so that there is the representative and the Council of State agree. On the other hand, when it comes to the process, it would be irresponsible for a non-predictor to give information to the Storting that it looked like an even different salssum – if one were to sell – than what was in the statements made to the Storing. As the government evaluated it, it would also be a too valuable possession, with great symbolic value, to go for an too low price. Although it may seem like this has been a bit back and forth, a good reason for it can be found, and I therefore believe that the case, as it stands today, will be handled in a good way in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1379	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Previously classified measurements from U.S. submarines show that the Arctic ice cover has been reduced by approx. 40 pst. in the last 30 years. Researchers say that the main reason is the temperature increase due to global warming. The certainly fastest growing source of greenhouse gases is mobile sources, i.e. car and aircraft. What does the Council of State intend to do to reduce the use of private cars by most people?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1388	In its policy, the government attaches great importance to limiting environmental pollution from transport. Drug use targeting the transport sector is currently extensive, both in the form of economic and administrative instruments. The transport sector contributes to the climate problem, primarily through carbon dioxide – CO2 emissions. Over the period 1990-98, CO2 emissions from the transport sector have increased by about 18 p.p., which is related to the increase in the volume of transport. The UNFCCC and International Protocols on Long-Range Air Pollution provide guidance for the level of ambition of Norwegian environmental policy towards climate change and air pollution with global and regional impacts. The main strategy for global environmental problems is the use of nation-wide cross-sectoral instruments, such as: fees. Both petrol, car diesel and other mineral oils are subject to a CO2 charge. The transport sector pays, in addition to the CO2 tax, higher ordinary taxes on fuels compared to other countries. In addition, there are high taxes on the purchase and ownership of cars that affect the size and composition of the car park and the use of cars. In general, there is a continuous effort to develop the use of environmental taxes. General environmental taxes will also have a positive impact on local environmental problems. Extensive administrative and regulatory measures have also been applied. Railway investment is given priority in areas where rail has a particular traffic and environmental impact, for example: near traffic around the largest cities and intercity trains. These are measures that can have a significant environmental impact. In the 2000 budget, speed and capacity-enhancing measures to facilitate the use of heel trains on Sørlandsbanen, Dovrebanen and Bergensbanen are given high priority. These are investments which will also be of great importance for rail freight.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1399	I thank the Council of State for your answer. Some of the reasons why SV takes this up include: climate research in relation to the Arctic. But it is also the problem that if you go in and read the Ministry of Transport's budget, it is very little affected by greenhouse gas emissions. So this is a problem issue, as I see it, of which the Ministry of Transport is not so busy. It's troubling SV. As the Council of State correctly points out, there is a huge increase in greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector. The challenges lie ahead. I have written about some of the measures that are mentioned. But where does it stand, for example? the bet that was promised in relation to walking and cycling roads? Where does it relate to the urban runway projects that you know about in the big cities? There is at all a lot of things that can be tackled, and that will have something to say about one of the biggest problems we're facing, namely, greenhouse gases.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1406	I have said from this speaker before today that everyone can of course get better, and we can certainly remain in budgetary context when it comes to talking about greenhouse gases. Now it'll be so that it's always a division of labour. Of course, global greenhouse gases will be mentioned in many places, but mainly in the budget of the special department and in special general terms. I'll see if we can talk about this better in recent years. With regard to the concrete measures that I have mentioned, I believe that they are spread across several chapters of the budget, both on foot and by bicycle, on collective transport solutions and not least on rail, on which we put considerable effort into the next year, and also on some for which we are criticised: we are trying to prevent pollution through regulation, via heavy-duty tyres. There is no prohibition on using heavy tyres, but there are fees to pollute etc., to mention something.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1415	At the end of the day, it's clear that compared to Oslo and other cities, this is a big problem with dust and noise, but it has relatively little to do with greenhouse gas emissions. What the SV is concerned about is getting a more offensive hold, an offensive policy, in relation to the measures that really help, that is what can reduce transport needs: investing in collective solutions, promoting energy-efficient solutions and solutions that do not involve greenhouse gas emissions. There is much more to be done here, and I am sure – and this is one of the challenges – that if the Minister of Transport thinks more strongly about the Kyoto Protocol and about greenhouse gas emissions in his planning and prioritisation, one will be able to initiate the projects I mentioned: the Bergen urban railway project, the Stavanger urban railway project, a stronger focus on pedestrian and cycle roads and a follow-up to the plans already adopted in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1422	I take Langeland's call with me, and this will follow with me in the further work. Now I have to remind you that the question itself was angled against car use and reduction on the private car side. That is why I have not addressed aircraft, emissions of greenhouse gases and emissions in general, which have a greater impact on the global environment. I just have to admit that in relation to how society will affect car use, we have to use both carrots and whips, as some would call it, so briefly: a combination of advantages on the collective side and disadvantages and taxes related to private car transport in order to get more environmentally oriented transport in the future, so that both parts must be in place if we are to get people to move more from the private car to the public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1431	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Transport: ‘In view of the fact that the Minister for Transport has stated that the projects under the ‘Gross Road Package’ are to have a very sober standard, with easy upgrading and covering of existing roads, the Road Office in More and Romesdal enters in order for the two priority sections Rv 680 and Rv 652 to have a variable road width down to 4 metres. Both roads are characterised as ‘narrow with poor curve’. Does the Council of State think this is a national road standard that is good enough for a new millennium?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1440	The stated costs of fixed cover on remaining dirt-covered highways show large variations in the size of the county. This is largely due to the fact that the scale of measures varies, from pure coverage and reinforcement to major conversions. The position of the Ministry of Transport is that the allocation of the new budget line for permanent cover on national roads — item 32 — is to be covered and the necessary reinforcement. An average running meter price of NOK 2000 has therefore been taken into account, which, on the basis of a road assessment, must be sufficient for this purpose. If major improvements and conversions are desirable, this must be assessed and prioritised in relation to the correction and conversion of other poor-standard national road sections within the allocated national road investment framework, item 30. After I was informed, the road office in More and Romesdal submitted a proposal for a gravel road package with a cost framework of 164 million. kr. This is in line with the information previously provided by the county council and involves an average running price of approximately NOK 3000. Consequently, the Road Agency has proposed that 108 million. kr shall be covered above entry 32 and the remainder above entry 30. If further increases in the standard of any of the sections are desirable, this must be covered above entry 30, both in More and Romesdal and in other counties. The solutions adopted for the said routes therefore appear to be in line with the overall leadership given by the Ministry of Transport for the use of funds from the gravel road package.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1451	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, but at the same time I would like to point out that I think this puts the so-called gravel road package in a rather strange light. When it was launched, it was given the impression that the gravel road package would solve all the problems related to gravel roads. Now the Road Office in More and Romesdal shows to its councillors and adds a road width to a distance of four meters – on a highway for 1999 and forward! This must be a temporary way, because you know that this is not suitable for the future. Small, curved roads cannot be highways ahead. I also didn't think I had a clear answer to what was my main question, and I would therefore like to repeat the question: Does the Council of State think this is a national road standard that is good enough for a new millennium?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1460	I just want to say that I am somewhat surprised that a representative of one of the five-six states who is knowingly getting extra funds to finally get rid of the last gravel roads in Norway complains about this. We don't have to go further than the state in the south, Sogn and Fjordane, in order to understand that they think it's unreasonable that you don't get a countdown because you've already done the laying of a cover on their gravel roads. In order to enable More and Romesdal to adapt to these additional resources, they are now distributed over the entire four-year period. As Minister of Transport, I do not interfere in how Mr. Møre and Mr. Romsdal will use their ordinary instruments of convergence on the gravel roads as well as additional allocation. However, when 2003 is over and the pesticides are ready, the county must have solid cover on its gravel roads. The money cannot be used for anything else. So I'm not going to determine either the width, the length or the design.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1467	I would like to thank you again for your answer. It is possible that it can be perceived that the representative Løvik is not grateful enough that some of the too small roadways were ear-marked to the gravel road. But I think it's a little strange when the Council of State, like, among other things. is responsible for the Norwegian highways, says that he will not interfere with the standard on Norwegian highways. In my view, 4 meters wide highways are not good enough, and I believe that the Council of State should feel a responsibility for this. I thought it would be reasonable if the Council of State in answer to such a question would at least try to set some kind of minimum standard, perhaps a Färvolll standard, and say how low he thinks the standard on a highway could be. Once again, I'd like to ask you, is a highway width of 4 meters good enough in Norway in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1478	I should not be surprised if after my time in the Council chair I also got the name attached to the national road width – but I doubt it. So we haven't set any standard in terms of national road width – neither 4 meters nor any other – or length. What we've done is we've created a "grass road package" to get rid of the Norwegian gravel roads over four years – and we're going to do that. We'll give you 100 million. kr per. years to this and has given a standard price, and then the counties have to determine from Norwegian road standards whether they are earned by using their ordinary means to complete the solution. If they find that they are not well served, they can of course find other solutions, but the responsibility lies locally at the county level, at the head of the road and at the necessary road selections in the county. I would recommend that More and Romsdal make maximum use of the money and get a good solution. That's what More and Romesdal have asked for, and that's what we want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1485	The President will state that the default time for posts is exceeded.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1496	This question lapses,
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1502	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In the Pulse program on NRK Monday 15 November 1999, it was claimed that the Nordics have a blood pressure lowering medicine for a billion dollars this year, without these drugs having any particularly documented effects. The medicines are essentially blue prescription medicines and thus paid by all of us. What can the Council of State do to get a practice that is more in line with knowledge-based medicine?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1511	There is hardly any other area in the medicine where more large controlled studies have been conducted than in the field of blood pressure treatment. This is probably due to two factors: firstly, that cardiovascular disease is the most common cause of death in our part of the world, and secondly, that industry has seen the economic potential of drug prevention. However, there is disagreement in the professional community as to when blood pressure treatment should be started, how much blood pressure should be lowered, and which medicines should be used. Regardless of professional choices at these points, many people have to be treated over several years before one of them takes advantage of the drugs. The main difference is enough that professionals have different opinions about how important it is to achieve this effect and whether the benefits are in relation to costs. About one third of the medicines prescribed on blue prescription in Norway are medicines in the field of cardiovascular diseases. The largest group is blood pressure medicine. We have a prescription policy that differs from the other Nordic countries by Norwegian doctors printing more expensive drugs than Swedish and Danish doctors, but in smaller quantities. Blood pressure treatment is mainly in general practice. The Norwegian Society of General Medicine – NSAM – has been the leader in the Norwegian professional community in developing guidelines for the treatment of blood pressure in general practice. They have, with state support, developed guidelines in cooperation with Folkehelsa, Norsk Medisinaldepot, the State Health Studies and the Institute for Pharmacotherapy. In addition, the State Health Authority has an ongoing dialogue with representatives of both primary and specialist health services in order to reach, if possible, common national guidelines for general medical and specialist health services. It is important to work to ensure that healthcare is based on the most up-to-date knowledge possible. Folkehalsa is an important actor in international cochrane cooperation that summarises knowledge about the effects of all types of healthcare. The Centre for Medical Methodology Assessment at SINTEF-Unimed also produces knowledge summaries. Public health is working to make it easier for health professionals, decision-makers and the public to get access to and use reliable health information. The Ministry has therefore recently initiated a project on Folkehelsa to support general practitioners in a rational prescription. The search will focus on blood pressure medications and cholesterol lowering drugs — two drug groups that constitute significant Community expenditure items. In cooperation with general practitioners, the obstacles to knowledge-based practice will be described. Identifying such obstacles is possible, it is possible to address them and develop tailor-made assistance to general practitioners, who account for most of the prescribed volume, and to patients. In the context of this project, it will be considered to renew national guidelines for such prescriptions in cooperation between Folkehelsa and NSAM. I have a good hope that this review of current guidelines and the development of a new and better form of dissemination of knowledge-based guidelines will lead to a more rational prescription of medicinal products. The project is comprehensive. It will cover the whole next year and could be completed in 2001. I want to orientate the Storting as the project approaches a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1530	I am very pleased that the Department has addressed this issue, both in terms of information/knowledge for health professionals and a review of the guidelines to be followed in order to obtain more rational prescriptions. But we know that, fortunately, we have research that gives us more and more effective medicines, unless side effects. We notice here in the house – the council and his department probably notice it too – an increasingly strong pressure to get these new drugs into the blue prescription system. I guess that's good. But what about all the drugs that are already in the system? How can a person get the new medicines that are better and more effective, and get out the medicines that have less effect? This has something to do with spending the public money on what's best for those who need it, even in medicine. So my question is, will one also have a review of this to get routines on it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1539	The representative of Vihovde is quite right that there is a significantly greater interest in getting medicines into the bladder prescription system than in getting them out, and the means of getting medicines into the bladder prescription system are becoming more and more insightful. In my work on medical questions, I have come to the conclusion that there is a need for a review of the entire pharmaceutical administration. These are the organisational aspects, but also the criteria for admission to the BIP. We are therefore working on such a review, including criteria for admission and the question of when to withdraw medicinal products from the scheme. Let me add that part of the problem is probably solved by itself, in the sense that when new and better medicines come into the system, the turnover of the older and worse drugs will naturally decrease significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1551	I will allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘In response on 25 June 1999 to my written question No. 357 [[1998-99]] How can the Council of State claim that this is not the case, and why has it been manipulated with dates in relation to that time of signature?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1560	The representative of Rasmussen asked me in June a written question as to why, in a letter dated 27 April 1999, the Ministry informed me that the agreement ‘Memorandum of Understanding – RENC Joint Venture’, MoU, had not been signed when it was subsequently found that the agreement had been signed on 31 December 1998. The Memorandum of Understanding – RENC Joint Venture has been concluded between the Staten Kartverk and the British Maritime Cartwork, the United Kingdom Hydrographic Office, on behalf of its departments. These agencies had for a long time held negotiations with a view to cooperating jointly to run a European Maritime Map Centre. The plans were that this centre should be in operation in Stavanger from 1 January 1999. Therefore, the State Chart and the British Maritime Cartagena Agency dated the agreement for themselves on 31 December 1998. The Ministry carried out a comprehensive assessment of the acceptability of the terms of the agreement, including the collection of opinions from other departments and clarifications both from the Swedish Cartel Office and from the UK Maritime Cartel Office. Not until 27 April 1999 did the Ministry agree to the conclusion of the agreement. The MOU was not to be considered to be signed with definitive effect before the department's agreement was reached. Where the Ministry declares that the contract has not been signed, it will in such a case mean that the department's agreement to conclude the contract is not available. This opinion could have been clarified that the Norwegian and British Maritime Charts Agency had signed a cooperation agreement, but that the Ministry had not agreed to the conclusion of the agreement at that time. In my written reply to the representative, Rasmussen, I referred to the chart editor's statement as to why and how this had been done. It follows that the department has not provided incorrect information or has been manipulated with dates.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1573	When I repeat the question about the formation of ECC AS/PRIMAR, it is because it is of great importance to existing companies that are already in the market, and it is a state monopoly situation. That's the background for this. The Council of State now said in its reply what she could have actually said in June in the written answer, that one should perhaps clarify the actual fact, that there was an agreement, but that it had not yet been approved by the ministry. So there I feel that the Council of State is making a long way to admit it. The council said that this was in the department's response of 27 April, but four times earlier there was also a response on behalf of the Swedish Maritime Cartry, which said the same thing. What I want to ask the Council of State is: Should not the correct thing have been that one in June had clearly said in the answer – then one had avoided a new question – that the agreement was signed, but that a wait for an approval from the Ministry of the Environment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1582	I do not overlook the fact that something more elegant could have been formulated in this case. It could be said that the agreement was signed, but it was not signed until the department approved it. I want to stress that it doesn't mean that you've given wrong information or manipulated it with numbers. Standard procedures have been followed for when an agreement is considered to be signed. At the same time, I fully agree with the representative that it is important to provide correct information on this matter, because it is of great importance for existing activities. It has therefore also been important for the Government to clarify in the agreement, and not least in the mandate for the establishment of this cooperation, that this should not compete with existing private enterprises such as, inter alia, sells map information in detail. It has been important for us to prevent a state monopoly from competing with private operators.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1589	The answer from the Council of State now tempts me to go further on the matter, whether there is no competition between what is now formed and existing private enterprises. But it has to be for another reason. What also surprises me is that it is said that there has been no change. When the agreement was first released, it was a date, 31 December 1998. But then the Environment Minister wrote in his reply in June that the actual date of signature was 27 January 1999. At best, this is manipulation with dates. My question will then be: Is it common for one in the Ministry of the Environment, and to the extent in the Government, when an agreement with foreign partners can immediately change the date of signature, as has been done in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1596	I'll again strongly distance myself from the fact that it's manipulated with dates. The ministry here has done is to deal with common contract law principles, both in the ministry and in the underlying agencies. I believe it was right for the Ministry of the Environment to use the four months used to approve the wording of the agreement. It was important to have a survey of questions such as: the consequences of the transition from management companies to limited liability companies, from the Ministry of the Environment to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, the way in which English concepts were to be understood, the organisational consequences and the economic consequences. Having said that, I hope and believe that we can at least meet in the joy of getting this kind of establishment in Norway. There is no doubt that this is a field where we needed European cooperation, and I am proud and happy that we got our head office to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1608	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following question: ‘Gården Haughesjen in the municipality of Fromande in Aust-Agder has, as a result of the escalation of the coniferous forest protection, been bound approximately. 25 pst. of the productive forest areas. If such a substantial part of the property is permanently protected, this would greatly impair the operational basis of the farm. The case has had a maximum degree of conflict as the owner is strongly opposed to the holding being deprived of important areas. [[1994-95]] In St.meld. No In addition, 40 states that ‘some areas are out of date due to them. the high degree of conflict»; Shouldn't this be followed?'
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1617	I would like to start by stressing that in planning processes under the Nature Conservation Act, the aim is always to minimise conflicts with landowners and other user interests before final protective decisions are taken. This applies both to the protection of coniferous forests and to the protection of other natural habitats. Therefore, the planning process prior to the conservation decisions under the Nature Conservation Act is very extensive through both local and central consultation rounds. The protection proposals promoted in relation to the protection plan for coniferous forests are also addressed in the Regional and Central Barcoque Committee, where the parent organisations are represented. In all protection planning processes, I am concerned that landowners and other local user interests are involved as early as possible, so that any conflicts can be identified and tried out early in the process. Conflicts between protection and other user interests are primarily attempted by adjusting the protection proposal through amended demarcation and through the design of the protection regulations. In St.meld. No 40 for 1994-95, the notification of coniferous forest protection, changes in husbandry are mentioned as possible mitigation measures. Nevertheless, in some areas the degree of conflict may be so high that there is no need for protection. Through the notification of the coniferous forest protection, it was decided to extend the protection of the coniferous forests. The farm Haughey is located within the proposed Haugheysknipen nature reserve, which is one of the proposed sites in the so-called phase 2 of the protection plan coniferous forest of eastern Norway. The plan is expected to be sent to local consultations during the year. The local consultation will take place beyond spring 2000, with consultation deadline early in the summer of next year. The plan will be thoroughly addressed through the local and later the central consultation. In addition, it is dealt with in the regional and central choice of coniferous forests. I am aware that the proposed Haugshjeknipen nature reserve is highly priority in the protection context of the county, while there are forestry interests in the area. I am also aware that work is already in progress to try to bring about a change of model in order to resolve these conflicts. This I think is positive. Before I get the matter dealt with in the department, I can't decide how to resolve any remaining conflicts. However, I would like to ensure that for this area, too, a careful balance is made between protection and forestry interests before any final protection decision is taken by the King in the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1628	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I choose to interpret it there until after all there is a hope that the reason will prevail in this case at the end. But if the authorities were to choose to marginalise the very life base of one of the few large farms in the municipality of Fromand, which has its entire existence on a one-sided basis based on forestry, it would be a real scandal that no politician or bureaucrat in that country can be aware of having been involved. For the sake of this case, not only is the fundamental private property right dramatic, but it is also brutally alienated from the government's own national political ambitions by threatening to destroy the nutrient base and the settlement in District Norway. Does not the Council of State clearly see both the regional aspects, the commercial and property aspects as well as the human aspects of this matter? Does she not see it as such heavy arguments against protective interference that the Council of State can state directly that this matter is to be followed with particular care?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1637	I fully share the representative's goal that reason will prevail in this matter, but it may be that we have a somewhat different scale. As I said, I will not go into this matter concretely and conclude with something from Storting's pulpit. It is that this plan will be sent to the hearing, and the consultation will go beyond spring 2000. Among the things that could be relevant is adjusting the limits and the level of protection through regulations. In this case, as in other matters I work with, I want to put great emphasis on working in a way that mitigates the conflicts as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1644	In my time here at Stortinget, I have used this pulpit in the Questionnaire in order to take up a whole range of different things for that little man out there. However, this is one of the worst things I have ever done. In this case, the authorities have never notified landowners of investigations, nor have the authorities assessed whether there are equivalent areas or state grounds to protect instead, nor do the authorities appear to have taken into account that the Landfill Communication states that areas with a minimum degree of conflict should be selected. Nor is there any rainforest proposed here. There are areas of plantations and restocking that have been in systematic forestry for the past 70 years. This matter is so important both for those who are involved and also in principle, that I would suggest that the ministry and the government council, even as the prominent stateswoman she is, should consider in their own person to take the trip to Haugseek Farm on the Southland in order to take a closer look at this enterprising and incomprehensible case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1649	There is no doubt that, among other things. protective matters in a number of contexts may create major conflicts. That's also why this government has been working systematically over the last two years to improve procedures and ensure that we work in a way that creates as little conflict as possible. That means that we've tried to tighten up the requirements for people to get clarification as soon as possible, that means that we've intensified the ownership of the property to get it alerted and be able to participate in the inspection, and that means in some contexts we're trying to run parallel processes under the law of nature protection and the law of planning and building, which ensures local participation early in the process. All of this is important to me. As part of the anti-conflict measures, we are also trying to meet people where it is desirable. And if we're invited there, of course we'll come.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1659	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘Five weeks ago, a wolf was killed in Svinndal, Eastfold. This wolf was to be retested because more professionals believe that the wolf family in the area is hybrid. If this is true, the wolf shall be killed. Why is this work not yet started?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1668	In the past, there have been questions about mixed wolf and dog animals in Norway. Among other things, this was addressed in the Questionnaire on 21 October 1998. After the first question was raised, the Ministry immediately took the initiative to further develop genetic methods that can be used to determine whether such mixed animals actually occur. The Directorate for Nature Management has followed up the matter on behalf of the Ministry and the development of methods is well under way. Samples of wolves from previous times and from today's population are routinely sent to a genetic laboratory in Sweden. This was also done when an animal was hit and killed in Eastfold recently. The college in Hedmark later stated in a report to the Directorate of Nature Management that they suspect that the puppy coal to which it was applied could be a mixture of wolf and dog. The Directorate has therefore worked to analyse this animal as quickly as possible, except for the already established analytical plan. The Directorate expects the results of the analysis to be available in January. It is not desirable to have a mixture of wolf and dog in Norwegian fauna. I have previously stated that if we can certainly say that there are such animals in Norway, I will put in place the necessary measures to remove them. The Directorate for Nature Management has therefore launched the planning of measures to follow-up the puppies in question in Eastfold. Among other things, Norway’s veterinary high school is commissioned to prepare for the individualisation of the animals in this wolf group, so that the puppies can be followed up to the time when a decision can be made as to what will happen next.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1675	I thank the Minister for the answer. It is not correct that the tests for genetic testing were carried out as quickly as possible. It took five weeks before there was a clarification between those who were going to do this and the Directorate of Nature Management. It was also about who would pay the bill. I believe that the Minister for the Environment must take on board the fact that this has become a serious matter of urgency. The damage done by the wolf in the area west of Glomma, and especially in the Municipality of Skiptvet, is very great. Therefore, the expectation of this genetic testing was very great, because if it turned out that these were hybrids, the problem was solved. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for the Environment if she agrees that the damage done in the area does not really matter to the Minister for the Environment when this matter has not been brought to normal progress.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1686	I can assure the representative that damage caused by wolves in this area and others is one of the things that currently occupies the Environment Minister most. If you go in the media, you might see that there's also some of the things that I'm currently spending the most time on. I agree that this is a serious matter that is urgent, and I have therefore checked with the Directorate for Nature Management whether there are any misunderstandings. It does not after the information I have received. The matter is dealt with as soon as possible. But it is unfortunately such that it is not done in a few days, among other things. because it is necessary to compare with the available genetic material of the Scandinavian wolf strain in order to determine with certainty whether it is a wolf or not.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1693	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Radiolabelling must take place before the wolf seeks new territories, and it is going to happen quite quickly. Therefore, it is very important that you now have a device and can start this radio marking immediately. I don't feel sure that it could happen, because if it gets so that this wolf disappears, you won't be able to find it back. Nor can it be desirable for the Minister for the Environment to have a wolf trunk that is used to harvesting sheep and cows, and to stay close to houses and densely built strips. That's what's now happening in this area. At the same time, enough people feel that nothing is happening on the part of the authorities, and therefore I will ask the Minister for the Environment finally: is the Minister for the Environment now interested in addressing the problems of the people there, so that they feel that this is something they can live with?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1702	I am still prepared to take the question seriously. I would like to stress that this is one of the things I'm actually doing most of the time, and it's also that I've put great emphasis on, either myself or represented by my State Secretary, meeting as many of those who are plagued by these problems. That is also why my State Secretary, together with the Director of the Directorate for Nature Management, was at a meeting in the area last night. At the same time, I can assure the representative that the Veterinary College has already been commissioned to prepare radiolabelling of these animals, and we have a common interest in having this done as quickly as possible, because it is also important for the Minister of Environmental Protection to have these animals shot if it turns out that it is not pure wolves.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1709	Question 25 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1722	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1728	‘Aftenposten 14 November 1999 describes how Norsk Tipping AS is developing new gambling that is targeted at younger classes of the year to a greater extent than today. Gambling is a serious problem, and the Stortinget has on several occasions expressed the desire to take measures to protect children and young people against aggressive gambling. Does the Council of State believe that the new games under development in Norwegian Typing AS are in line with the signals the Storting has given in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1735	In a look-up in the Evening Post on 14 November this year, with NTB as a source, it emerged, among other things. that today's users of the Norwegian Typing game are getting older. The average age of players is well above the average age of the population for most of the company's games. There are already hundreds of international games available to Norwegians via the Internet today. This is an estimated 100 million for the country. gambler’s crowns per game. years, funds that should also benefit Norwegian society. In view of the fact that younger people use the Internet more than older people, younger people are likely to use more internationally available games. Norwegian Typing investigates the possibility that the company will be able to put its current games on the digital market channels of the future, such as the Internet, interactive digital TV, etc. Let me stress that these preparations do not include plans for the launch of new games. I also added that the government has not taken a decision on whether to allow the use of these new market channels. The article mentioned in the Evening Post gives, after what has been explained by Norwegian Typing, a distorted picture of the company's work on renewing its playing concept. The aim of the company’s preparations is to meet the players of the future effectively and to prevent the disappearance of gambling sales from the country. In any case, Norwegian Typing Commission Network, with nearly 4,000 commissioners, will also be central to providing players with personal service in the future. The company has underlined to the Ministry that in the future we will not focus our game concept on children and young people, and that the company will continue to pay great attention to the sober and non-constant marketing of its games. I will already have a meeting with Norsk Tipping on 2 December, and then I will deal with this matter with them, so that there is no doubt about the department's position on marketing to children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1750	I thank the Council of State for the answer, it was reassuring. I would nevertheless be allowed to point out that the Norwegian Gallup Institute, in cooperation with the Psychiatric Institute in Trondheim, on behalf of Norwegian Lottery, has carried out a survey of children and young people's game passions related to entertainment games on TV, video and data. The study concludes that as many as 4,450 young people have serious gambling problems, even without the possibility of money gain. And it's these kids who are the next generation of games. Does the Minister of Culture not see the danger of the state’s gambling developing new methods of gambling designed to hit this youth group, which basically has a serious problem related to gambling addiction? In the context of the transition to digital television and the opportunities it provides for interactive communication, the Culture Committee has been concerned that the development of new opportunities for communication must also be concerned with putting in place barriers to the prevention of increased gambling problems affecting the population. Does the council share my opinion that the creation of more aggressive interactive games should last until the Storting has dealt with the issue and given signals as to what we will allow by state game forms?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1763	As I explained in my first answer, Norsk Typing is not expected to introduce new games based on the new technology available. The government is definitely busy with the problem of game madness. We have studies that show that this with gambling addiction affects 1-2 pst. by the population. It is worth noting in this regard that gambling addiction among young people is as closely related to entertainment as gambling. But despite the fact that gambling addiction mainly occurs in forms of games other than those represented by Norsk Typing, Norsk Typing also takes this problem seriously and contributes, among other things. with financial support for research in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1768	Now we go back to the questions 5, 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1774	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘For a number of years, several fishermen from North Norway, including a fishing skipper from Tromsø, have arranged for the stock management of fish to be incorrect, and they have too far predicted the stock situation we are currently facing. The fishermen claim that it is completely wrong to set the quotas in tonnes and not in individuals. Furthermore, they claim that the only solution to today’s population problem is to shut down the growing-up areas. Do the Governments agree to this, and what, if any, is done by the Ministry of Fisheries to evaluate the management systems?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1783	There is no fundamental difference between allowances granted in the number of individuals and allowances granted in tonnes. An allowance in tonnes is calculated from a fish stock basis. An allowance in the number of individuals was also likely to have to be expressed in expected catch weight, as the quota is to be allocated between parties with different access to large and small fish. In the case of the problem of discarding small fish, the motivation for such behaviour will be increased if only the number of countries are set off against the quota. Today's cod regulations are aiming at the long way to shutting down growing areas. A monitoring programme for fishing grounds, with the opening and closing of fields, closes areas with high incorporation of small fish for long periods. The programme covers both the coast, the Barents Sea and the fishing protection zone of Svalbard. However, this is a long-term measure that only takes effect when the fish we have protected in this way has grown up and contributed to the development of the stock and are ready for fish. We expect this to produce further effects in the future in terms of the protection of fish below minimum targets and thus contribute to the reconstruction of populations. The Ministry of Fisheries is constantly seeking to evaluate the management systems in order to improve them. In particular, experience from previous years’ fishing is one of the elements used in establishing new provisions on participation in and the exercise of fishing activities. In this context, I would also like to refer to the work undertaken by the Ministry of Fisheries in setting up a plan to ensure that the regulations laid down are followed up in practical fisheries. The Norwegian Fisheries Team will now, in cooperation with the National Association of Fisheries and the Fisheries Authorities, initiate a conference in which the search light will focus on the relationship between the different forms of regulation and the problems of control that arise.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1796	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In my question I have referred to the concern that fishermen have long signaled. In autumn 1996, fisherman Håkon Jensen wrote a reading article in the magazine Nordlys, highlighting the high quotas for 1997 and what this means in individual procurement. He traces in the same post that the total quota of cod for this reason can be dramatically reduced from the year 2000, as we now see. Many fishermen now express great concern that the set cod quota is too high. Can we risk creating an insurmountable problem now by not going enough new paths in the management of fish and at the same time taking up the signals of fishermen in a more thorough way?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1805	As I said in my post, ensuring the growth of the young fish is one of the most important administrative measures we have today, with the decoupling of significant areas of the Barents Sea and the Svalbard Zone. In the spring also large parts of the Finnmark coast within the fishing boundary were blocked for operations with spin-throats. It shows that this question is being taken seriously. I'm familiar with the fact that there are different plays coming from the fishermen. Switching to administration in the number of individuals relative to weight has been evaluated. There are recordings that have been made over many years. However, the result of the evaluation is that there will actually be a lower management regime, especially because it provides a basis for even more discards of small fish. The fishermen sell all the fish according to weight, and that is what will be crucial for the response that will be in the fields.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1815	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Norway has again submitted proposals to CITES for the listing of wave options. The proposal shall be examined at the COP meeting in Nairobi in March next year. The listing will allow international trade in qualifying products accepted by all CITES countries. The industry is concerned with a positive result, but the result may well be a no to list. If there were to be a yes to listing, then the State Council would open up for export, and how do the State Councils view the situation if there is a refusal to list?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1824	Let me first say that CITES stands for the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Animals and Plants. The purpose of the Convention is to protect endangered animals and plants. This is done by regulating trade and the private import and export of such species. Species covered by the Convention are listed in three different lists. List I covers the most endangered species and implies that trade is prohibited in practice. Today, wave whales are on list I – despite the fact that the populations of wave whales in our areas are clearly not threatened by extinction. At the CITES meeting in 1997, Norway received broad support, including: a simple majority of its proposal to authorise trade in wafer products. Unfortunately, we did not get the required 2/3 majority for the removal of wave whales from the list of endangered species. Norway has now sent a new and further revised proposal to CITES to transfer the populations of North-East Atlantic and Central Atlantic wave whales from List I to List II. The matter shall be dealt with at the forthcoming meeting of the Parties in Kenya 10. April 20, 2000. The Norwegian list proposal is justified by the fact that the biological criteria for keeping these two species on List I are not met. The research carried out, among others: within the Scientific Committee of the Whaling Commission, it is clear that there is no basis for keeping list I wavy whales. As for the situation if there were to be a yes to listing, and if I would then open up for export, I would say that this is precisely what the Norwegian authorities are working for. The most important thing now is that we work on a broad front and in different contexts to create understanding and support for the Norwegian list. As far as the proposal is concerned, we have focused on achieving a positive result for Norwegian whaling industry. Regardless of the outcome of the CITES meeting, this is a situation that we must then decide on regarding Norwegian exports. Of course, it will be crucial whether there are markets that are open to imports of wavy products. But the situation needs to be discussed more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1839	I thank you for your answer. But I am not satisfied, because there was no clear signal that it would be opened for export if we got a yes. The answer was that it would be the status quo if the answer were yes or no. CITES also stands for two more words that the Council of State did not mention. CITES stands for the conservation of flora and fauna. The Council of State said that what is on list I is, in fact, forbidden to act with. It shall not be prohibited to trade with the countries which have made reservations under the conventions applicable to CITES. Trade with non-CITES countries is not prohibited, nor is it prohibited to trade with other countries that have also reserved. Norway has reserved, and we have a full right to trade. So the question is equally unanswered. When we get a yes to CITES, if we do, are we going to open up for export? I would like an answer to that question. If we get a pass in CITES, would the department say yes?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1848	In response to the representative, Mr Bastesen, I would like to say that there is a normal administrative procedure and that a political decision assesses any situation on the day on which the decision is to be taken, and not months in advance says what the decision will be, no matter what the situation may be. What I said in my answer was that the work we're doing now, and the purpose of reopening the matter in CITES, is just to get to a normal management of the wave wave wave, so that we can have a normal, allowed opening for export.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1853	I thank you again for the answer. I note that the Government and the Ministry are more restrictive in their positions than CITES should be. I figured it would be a natural consequence if CITES said yes, that the Norwegian government would also say yes. But that's not the case. I have another question that I think is even more important, but has not been so much affected. The countries around CITES – especially from our big friend on the west side with the long hat and beard – are working hard to get fish on the list of endangered species. I would like to ask the question: What is done by Norway to prevent fish from coming on the same list as torment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1862	This is a new question, it is not in the main question that has been asked, but I will try to answer it. It is every democratic country's right in a democratic organization to address matters. What will be the position on the Norwegian side is to take a decision on the issues raised in CITES, and to have a say in them. Something else I can't say here and now, but if fish were to come within CITES' field of work, I can't see that in our areas there would be fish species that would in that case be the basis for taking up and getting listed in CITES.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1879	I have another question for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The cod quota of the year has again been dramatically reduced from its peak level a few years ago. There are still allegations about catch data errors, quantities delivered and hidden taxation so that the models the researchers use do not work. It is now necessary to set up an independent group to investigate this problem, instead of now, only concentrate efforts on investigating alleged illegalities. Will the Council of State take the initiative to set up such an independent research group to address the problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1888	Firstly, I would like to inform you that the total quota for Norwegian Arctic cod for the year 2000 is now set at 390,000 tonnes. In addition, 40 000 tonnes of Norwegian coastal cod are added. The Norwegian share will be 193 400 tonnes for the following year, compared with 236 500 tonnes for the current year. Sense of this means a significant reduction, this is much less dramatic than if we had used the option that would have brought the spawning stock up to the level of commodity already in 2001, giving a total catch of 110 000 tonnes next year. Marine research faces major challenges related to the sustainable management of marine resources. The Government, in its 1999 revised national budget, has allocated funds to launch a pre-project for the construction of a new marine research vessel. There are funds in the next year's budget for the start-up of the construction of that ship. A new and top-notch modern vessel with the improvement of its research tool will have a major impact on future marine research. A planning group with participation from the Marine Research Institute, the University of Oslo and the University of Bergen presented this April a report entitled ‘How to improve the estimation and production of fish stocks’. These include: outlined measures to reduce uncertainty and sources of error in catch data and sampling data. This is aimed at generating fishing opportunities independent of official catch statistics. Participation by the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea, the Coast Guard, the Swedish Control Agency, the sales teams and the expertise in statistical surveys has been proposed. Cod in the Barents Sea has a high priority in these plans. An earmarked appropriation for the State budget shall include, inter alia: cover parts of this. Whatever tools we need, we have to be willing to think about new things in relation to marine research. It may be that the marine research community can draw further impetus for its work from other disciplines and from what has been developed by methods and approaches in other areas of society. Seas if marine scientists today have significant cooperation and contact networks both nationally and internationally, further cooperation with other disciplines can be useful to develop the technology and methodology of resource research. In other contexts, we have seen how a critical opposition has driven research in the future, such as: within the IWC Scientific Committee. Perhaps we can use these experiences in a positive way in relation to marine research, seas about the complexity of fishing on the cod stock, which means that it is not comparable to the wave wave. In order to trigger such an opportunity, the Institute of Marine Research has established it before that project, and the possibilities for researchers to go deeper into the problem will be limited by both financial and human resources. In the case of claims that efforts today only concentrate on the investigation of alleged illegalities, this is not correct. Prior to the establishment of the rules governing the practice of fishing, extensive cooperation with the industry is sought to identify regulatory forms which are consistent with practical fishing as far as possible. I would also like to refer here, as in my answer to question 5 from the representative of Arnesen, to the cooperation between the authorities and the fishing industry with the planning of a separate conference such as this. shall focus on compliance with established regulations and control of the practice of fishing. But it will always be that regulations will intervene in the free exercise of fishing. The lower the quotas, the greater the intervention in the fish will feel.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1901	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I record that the cod quota was considerably higher than feared after the negotiations with Russia. When the recommendation was 110 000 tonnes starting from ICES, there is basically enough answer as to what the Council of State said on my previous question, namely that he could not see that there were some species that could be on the list of endangered species in CITES. Well, that's what we can just stand up to when it comes to the cod. With such uncertain stock estimates and such great fluctuations from one year to the next, something dramatic has to be done to find out what's going on. That is why I have outlined a solution in my question. I'm aware that the researchers are doing the best they can, but we're facing a dramatic situation as we don't know for sure what they're doing. When delivery data is used, it is not useful to build a new research vessel.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1912	Let me first say that the level of 110 000 tonnes, which was one of the ICES options, has been abused by the fact that it has been said that it is the level that has been considered a sustainable withdrawal of the stock. The researchers have given different options, using different extraction models, to indicate the result in terms of the growth of the population. The quota set at 390000 tonnes means that the spawning stock will increase to next year, and one has about one. 70 pst. the likelihood that it will be more than 500000 tonnes already in 2003, i.e. above what has been considered to be the sustainable level. Let me also say that the level of 500,000 tonnes for the spawning stock now set as a sustainable level is a relatively high level compared to the historical size of the spawning stock. In this way, the fishing to be undertaken next year, provided that the estimates provided by the researchers are correct, will be good within a sustainable level of management.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1919	I thank you again for the answer. I fully agree with the Council of State that the number 110 000 tonnes has been abused by the media. The researchers gave more options, and the quota that has now been reached is well within the limits that can be reasonably assumed. But it is only once that CITES, the International Whaling Commission and a number of international organisations are governed by the opinions, influences and lobbying of extreme environmental organisations, which are again managed by the media. That's why I'm so worried that it's not real and reliable data when the researchers provide their estimates. What we have to stick to today is too uncertain. Therefore, a force injection must be made. It's not enough just to build a new research vessel, here the whole problem has to be reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1928	It is true that many groups of opinion internationally focus on how the management of resources takes place both in the sea and on land. But we know from experience in wave management that there are only good enough research results that can refute claims that are not correct. It's added, as I said in my first answer, that marine research is going to evaluate its work every year, and it's going to be put up to a huge program to try to make research better and it's going to be done next to the annual, recurring research they're doing. After all, it's all about making the tool better, making the models that they're trying to calculate the stocks for, better, that's the only way to go. And in order to have the best possible tools to work with, you also need to have a vessel that can go to sea, and that can do a real job. It is therefore important in this context to build a new marine research vessel.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1933	That being the case, it is no. 1 completed on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-24.ana.ud542e1942	There is no record.
