ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e27	The representatives of Kjell Engebretsen and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Buskerud County: Frank Willy Larsen For the county of Hordaland: Monika Soltveit Gabrielli For Telemark County: Marthe Scarning Lund The representative, Erna Solberg, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e52	I will be allowed, on behalf of Jan Petersen, Sverre J. Hoddevik and myself, to make proposals to extend the mandate of the Task Distribution Committee to include an assessment of the number of levels of administration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e57	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e79	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Lars SponheimState Council Dagfinn HøybrätenState Council Hilde Frafjord Johnson The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. - Then it's settled. We start with the first main questions, from the representative John I. Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e98	My question goes to the Minister of Health. The scandalous construction project on Gaustad with Stadsbygg as a builder – I am thinking of the new Rikshospitale – has led to major operational problems in the old Rikshospitale. The deadline for the completion of the new Rikshospitale has now been exceeded by at least one and a half years and may be two years. Per. today's date I do not know of any new date for completion and relocation. I am well aware that advanced medical devices installed on Gaustad are now being dismantled to keep professionally sound operation going in the old Rikshospitale. I am also aware that the old Rikshospitale, for example, hires MRI machines and other medical-technical equipment to meet the need, at a very high cost. Can the Minister of Health confirm this and, in the event of additional costs incurred by the old Rikshospitale due to the further postponement of the construction project?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e105	It is true, as the representative Alvheim points out, that the postponements of the completion of the construction project on Gaustad are increasingly creating problems for the operation of the old Rikshospitale. This is because the old Rikshospitale is driven in such a way that it per. today should have been taken over by the new. It has implications for the lifetime of equipment, etc. The size is in St.prp. No 1 briefed on the postponement that took place at the beginning of August, which meant that the main relocation could not take place in November this year, but will now take place in 2000. The government will present this week an additional proposition to the State budget for 2000 as announced in St.prp. No 1, where we present all aspects of the structural delays and operational consequences of this, and where we propose additional appropriations for the 2000 budget of the Rikshospital in order to ensure proper operation until relocation can take place. It is our goal that this move should take place before the summer holidays of 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e110	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. I have previously suggested that independent expertise of a national or international nature should be provided to review the technical facilities of the new Rikshospital before moving in – this in order to ensure maximum safety for the patient when moving in the future. The trust in State Building is pretty thin at my place. Does the Minister of Health share the concern I have expressed on behalf of future patients and employees at the Rikshospitalet? I take it as a matter of course that the Rikshospital's ordinary operating budget does not in any way have to be charged for the additional costs the hospital incurred in 1999 and will be charged in 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e121	When the Rikshospital has not yet moved from Pilestrete to Gaustad, it is because there is a general concern that patients’ safety should be taken into account. The hospital shall be ready to be used in such a way as to ensure that this basic requirement is met. Of course, independent expertise is used in the quality assurance and review of the equipment of a very advanced nature installed in the new hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e128	Asmund Kristoffersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e131	It's unfortunate for Stortinget that we have so far been unknown when we can count on using the new Rikshospitalet. But I hear the council answers that he assumes it will happen in the summer of 2000. I expect that the financial statements you can calculate are quite difficult. I remember that only the postponement from September to November this year according to the budget was estimated to cost 27 million. kr. I therefore have to ask the Council of State: what additional costs do you expect will be incurred until you move in? The second question I want to ask is: The Rikshospital has extensive tasks in terms of patient treatment, research and education. What has been the impact of the ongoing delays on these issues — patient treatment, research and education?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e140	I believe that the Storting has been fully informed of what it has been possible to inform the Storting about the background and consequences of the postponement that unfortunately came early in the harvest. This is shown in the St. pp. No 1 for 1999-2000. We announced there that we would have a complete review of the economic consequences on the construction side under the direction of the Minister of Labour and on the operating side under my direction, and that we would provide a review of it in addition to the State budget. That supplement will be promoted on Friday, and then the full overview of the economic implications that the representative Kristoffersen is now asking for will be presented to the Stortinget together with a review of the elements that have led to the postponement and the operational consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e146	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e149	My question goes to the Minister of Health. I would like to refer to the very strong criticism of the Minister of Health from NTNU, the University of Trondheim. The University's management has had to address the State Council of Lilletun with its criticism, because the Minister of Health has intervened in a single case concerning a research project on ultrasound for pregnant women. NTNU points out that this is research that is professionally relevant and professionally necessary, and that the ethical committee has recommended it. The University maintains that the project will be carried out. I am very concerned about the behaviour of the Minister of Health in this matter, and will ask what authority the Council of State believes he has to introduce a practice of detailed management of the research.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e158	If it had been right that the Council of State had put in place a practice of detailed research management and had intervened and even stopped a research project that was in progress, there could be a justification in this criticism. But the Council of State has not done so. This project is about moving social boundaries, trying out early ultrasound as a 12-week screening. To date, there has been a wide range of professional consensus, including anchored here in the Stortinget, that this will take place in the 17th–18th century. week. A systematic search shall be carried out for developmental abnormalities in the foetus. I see it as a social issue – a question that is obviously not about developing new technologies but about moving social boundaries. It is my opinion that, in the free debate, state councils must also have the opportunity to participate. And in the free debate, I have requested that this project be postponed to Stortinget to discuss the biotechnology notification, which will take place in a few months, so that the Stortinget will actually be allowed to do so before faced with a situation that can be very difficult to reverse.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e167	The University's management has evaluated the professional and ethical aspects of the project very carefully. I've done the same for myself. I have taken good time to get into the matter, and I insist, like the University of Trondheim, that the Council of State's handling of this matter is, in principle, very unfortunate. Medical and technological developments are very rapid, and technology is rapidly being put into operation. There are a number of ethical and professional questions that we need to address. I can't say if it's right with early ultrasound, but I know it's going on in a big way. There is a great desire for more knowledge to make good ethical driving rules, and the research environment in Trondheim is at the forefront of international affairs. We can't build it down, we have to build it up. Researchers who celebrate their entire lives to take care of their fetuses and mothers must not be motivated to work for a sorting society. That's wrong. [[The President clubs.]] Here I would like to ask the Council of State and others to think through their language. [[The President clubs]] We must have an ethical debate, but it must be clean and respectful.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e176	The President shall draw attention to the fact that speaking time is to be kept.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e179	What would have been really unfortunate in principle was if, as Minister of Health, I was not to have the opportunity to address myself in a matter that is being researched, and as the Stortinge will certainly be presented with a matter in a few months' time. I want to say it so that it surprises me that this criticism is coming. It surprises me that it comes from Stortinget, and it surprises me that it comes from the Workers' Party. I have registered that far into the representative's own party are the representatives who have gone out and supported the view I have expressed. So I haven't intervened in the formal process. On the contrary, I have said that this project has been approved in all the locations that it should be approved. I cannot stop it, I have not tried to stop it, but in the debate I have made a request to wait until the politicians are told their words.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e184	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e187	My question goes to the State Council of Sponheim, both as Minister of Industry and as Head of the Left. We heard in today's newscasts that the Labour Party leader Thorbjørn Jagland is now inviting to a wide-ranging government cooperation with, among others. the current government parties, and he declares in the Evening Post today: «Three of them will cooperate with the Workers' Party». I guess he's heading for the government parties, including the Left. The President of the Centre Party has stated that, following the conciliation with the Labour Party, the budget has become a better budget. From the point of view of industrial policy and fiscal policy, I would like to hear how the leader of the Left considers the tax policy that Professor Terje Hansen refers to as a «catastrophe» and «in conflict with all professional councils».
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e201	Let me first say that it is my clear view that the best budget was the budget that the Government has put forward. But then it's that a budget isn't good on paper, it's only good for the economy when it has a majority behind it in the Storting. That means that a minority government must seek cooperation in order to obtain a budget that is good for the country, through a majority in the United Kingdom. I believe that we have succeeded, even though it can be said at individual points – at my discretion in very marginal areas – that it has helped to weaken some of the industrial policy profile, at least if we think of the AMS scheme, which could have contributed to the capitalisation of businesses. But the main picture is that this is completely marginal. We've been able to protect business in important areas. We have a budget that has a majority behind us, and we already know on 3 November how to deal with it. It must also be very good for business. In addition, there is a budget that will be able to take care of all the important sizes that provide the basis for a continued fall in interest rates. With regard to the statements we have come to know in the news today, that the leader of the Workers' Party has expressed the desire to engage in government cooperation with the three parties, it will then have to build on a desire to split the three parties in order to achieve a desired government formation. We also know that the Right has attempted earlier in its strategy of government formation. It didn't work out. The relationship between the three parties is very strong and has become stronger. It is not only a practical cooperation, but it is also a cooperation which, to those degrees, is based on an ideological foundation. It is not relevant for the Left to participate in any government cooperation with the Workers' Party. We want to stick to the cooperation we have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e208	In this way, the Right/Left must be in good company, for the Left has also stated the same thing as the Right, namely that such government cooperation should also include the Right. But I understood that it was a national meeting opinion that disappeared on the Adult Lodge after just one day. I record that the Minister of Industry mentions the changes that have taken place in the budgetary agreement, as marginal changes. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Industry directly: Is it not true that the Left has promised improvements in the sharing model? This agreement means that the sharing model is becoming more expensive for businesses. Is it not true that the Left has demanded that the difference in the marginal tax rate on employee income and the tax rate on capital income should approach each other? With this equation, it goes the other way. To stick to Professor Terje Hansen, he says about this: ‘This is a disaster, and it is as bad as it may be. There is broad technical consensus that the difference in taxes on labour and capital income should be reduced.» How does this harmonize with Left's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e220	For its part, the President would like to stress that it is Minister of Industry Sponheim who is meeting at the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e224	I assume that the President also allows me to answer the questions with all the thoughts I had to have in my head, even outside the Ministry of Business. Let me first say that it is right, as the representative Foss here says, that before 1997, the Left Party and also the Christian People's Party had a national decision and, above all, a wish for a four-party cooperation. When it wasn't possible, because the Right Strategy was based on the split-up of the Centre, it also very clearly shows what is the first priority and the bearer of this government cooperation, that the cohesion of the three parties is more important than anything else. The evolution we've seen over these two years has only reinforced such a situation. We have in all reverence a very good government that is handling difficult tasks for the country in a good way. I guess that's a subjective notion, but I have to be allowed to express it. This approach also applies to the proposal we now see from the head of the Workers' Party. The three center sections are grouped together and they're going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e231	There will be follow-up questions – Ansgar Gabrielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e234	This budget agreement has been celebrated in different ways. We saw on TV that the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party was up on the board of the Finance Committee, and I saw in the VG that the Workers' Party's fraction had celebrated it in the back room, actually with Gabrielsen's brandy. Now it is well that there has been a long way between the reports where small businesses have celebrated this. I've seen a little soft cake and little other things as well. I think maybe the Prime Minister's choice of soft cake piece was a little bit strange, when the deal implies that we get a 10 pst. increase in the Equation Tariff for Businesses. The split model gets an increase of 200 million. kr. We get an increase in car taxes, diesel taxes, lower depreciation rates for commercial buildings, etc., and an increase in shipping tax. This is a total of hundreds of millions. [[The President clubs.]] Does the Minister of Industry think that the Prime Minister made a wise choice when he chose the piece of cake that went to small businesses, and in that case does the Minister of Industry consider these hundreds of millions to be insignificant?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e241	The President notes that the representative Gabrielsen has taken a large piece of the cake that relates to the measured time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e244	I have to say that sometimes it's enough that the Bache-Gabrielen tastes better than Ansgar Gabrielsen, and there I understand the Workers' Party. With regard to the questions, I think the Prime Minister rightly took the right piece of cake, because it was the authority of the Government in the budgetary agreement that we have concluded, to protect what is perceived as difficult for small businesses, and we have done so. This means that the stock discounts, which are important for small enterprises, are unaffected, and that means that for all practical purposes for small enterprises no changes have been made to the sharing model that small enterprises will notice. And that's important. I have also registered that the company's organisations have also not initiated the major actions or made the major protests after this has become known. And that I think is directly related to the fact that it's important for the country with the predictability it gives that a budget can be adopted and clarified so early, with all the important sizes left in it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e253	Kristin Halvorsen – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e256	It was unknown to me that the Minister of Industry had tasted Ansgar Gabrielsen and thus had a basis for comparison with the Bache-Gabrielsen. But leave it. A budgetary settlement has been reached between the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party, and the Centre Parties must count on the mouth of the Right Party and the Advance Party. Now this budget agreement is not very comprehensive in dollars and cents. It's more interesting to discuss what this means for the next two years on Stortinget. On the SV side, we have noticed that the centre parties and the Workers' Party have said that they should cooperate on the difference message, which is now being treated in the Stortinget. You go right into that dragonfight that's going to be about how much you're going to tax capital, which is the main reason that the 10 pst. The wealthiest has become richer, and how much to go in to combat poverty in Norway. Is the Minister for Industry and the Left, Sponheim, seeking systematic cooperation with the Workers' Party, among others. on the notification of differences, which may last for two years, so that differences in Norway can really be combated?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e263	It's a bit of the strength of the central government that we're able to cooperate in both directions. We have had budgetary cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party for two years – with subsidiary support from there – and now we have a budget on which a pure-bred centre stands together with the Workers' Party. The sum of these results in very good effects for what I think is center policy. We take care of the business needs of a good industrial policy, combined with the Community responsibility for using the State and the public to solve important tasks shared by the Centre with the Workers' Party. The latter is not least important in these times when the right parties in their budgets to those degrees run away from such Community responsibility, as I have experienced it. The parties to the Government have also committed themselves by means of this budgetary agreement to cooperate more closely on the notification of the difference, which is closely related to the budget. In addition, this is an individual budgetary cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e270	The next follow-up question is from Børge Burnde.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e273	It's always interesting to listen to Lars Sponheim in his spontaneous interview, at least when he, as he himself said here instead, expresses all the thoughts he has in his head. What we are now facing is a budgetary settlement where we see that the difference between the tax on capital and the tax on labour income has increased, we have a marginal tax in Norway of 65 pst. on labour income. How does Sponheim feel that this harmonizes with the Waxenås declaration, where it is said that this distance should decrease? We have also experienced a deterioration in the divisional model, not only in relation to artists and so on, but we have also reduced the rate of return on capital to 5 pst, which means a deterioration. Now Sponheim says that you can achieve a lot of positive with the Workers' Party. But in the spring he said that in many of these individual measures, both in the small and large enterprise policy, we know that the good majority solutions exist between the centre and the Right and the Progress Party. Does he no longer agree with that statement?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e282	To the end, I stated that it is precisely because of the genuine position of the centre that we can find good business policy solutions and get a majority for them together with the Right and the Advance Party, while at the same time taking care of the good Community solutions and getting a fair distribution, of which the central parties are engaged, together with the Labour Party. The sum of this becomes a good policy for the country, and it illustrates the importance of the crossroads of power politics. So the first question. It is right that the Left's policy is to bring together the tax rates on capital and labour – which really show the big differences and perhaps the most unfair in our tax system – as for example. Willoch and Karl Glad – I'm sorry, Yngve Hågensen, they were often so close – have expressed a desire for development. When the budgetary agreement now led to a higher marginal tax on very high incomes – on labour income that Brande stated – we should remember that there are few people involved, that is, wages higher than the Prime Minister has, so I think it's up to living with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e290	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e293	It should be possible for the Council of State to ask the question of the balancing of capital and wages only by increasing and increasing the tax on capital, and that it has not ever been possible to have a flat pay tax system. Now there is a problem that has arisen in relation to business, in relation to the increase in marginal tax, with the agreement on the divisional model system made in 1995 at Stortinget. It is a settlement that has led companies with traditional capital to come out better of the sharing model than enterprises with modern human capital – enterprises in the sectors for which the Council of State has often tried to make itself a spokesman. It is precisely these sectors that will also be affected by the increase in marginal tax, because they are not included in the ceiling through the sharing model. Does the Council not see that this is a direct attack on industrial research, on enterprises in information technology, on the whole system we want to build on Future Norway – not just the traditional capital companies?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e298	I would first like to state that an approximation of the tax rates between labour and capital is a matter to which the Government will come closer in the broad tax notice notified to spring. It originated in its time in a Document No. Eight proposals here in the Storting that the Government has had a broad investigation of, and that we will come back to. It is a well-known matter that both the Minister of Finance and I have previously expressed considerable sympathy for such a policy, and that is what we are getting closer to. It should also be said that we had a significant convergence of these tax rates already in the 1992 tax reform. One of the effects that many people are after is that it should lead to lower gross wages and salaries — simply by having an effect on net wages and salaries in the case of high incomes. It is an effect that unfortunately has not occurred. We've seen how wage developments have taken off altogether, despite the fact that the marginal tax rate has fallen significantly. There is a part of the market here that has not worked satisfactorily in the formation of wages and salaries, and that makes it necessary to include some experience when this needs to be assessed in more detail. Otherwise, I agree that it is a problem that intangible values – knowledge – are not capitalised in companies in a fiscal sense. We need to take a closer look at that in this tax statement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e307	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e310	I would like to ask the Minister of Industry a question. Today we hear that the need for capital is a theme for Norwegian companies. Several large Norwegian companies may be on their way to being sold out of the country. Dyno and Hydro Seafood are examples. Common to these enterprises is that they need access to extensive and patient capital in order to grow and develop in a good and necessary way in order to be at the front on a world-wide basis. On the other hand, we know that the government is administering large funds that we need a good return on. My question is whether the Council of State sees it reasonable to link these two needs, and whether Norway is becoming a branch country instead of a country where the large companies find it useful to have their head offices.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e317	Here, in the debate on the day, there is a significant degree of allegations, among other things. Norway is becoming a branch country. The most recent figures I know show that Norwegian industry's direct capital invested abroad is now NOK 163.9 billion, while foreign direct investment in Norway is NOK 151.5 billion. This means that we have had a development over many years in which Norwegian companies invest more, and make other countries branch countries more than the other way around. There may be reason to believe – that is a claim we would like to clarify – that, based on Norwegian headquarters, there is now more economic activity than ever. It doesn't mean that I don't worry that there's a danger that important environments and important head offices with research environments and that can move out of the country. We need an active policy to combat it in important areas. I think it is important that we do that, and that we follow from business to business what can be done. But it is also very important to allow Norwegian egg communities to get on the road. I have experienced, when large Norwegian companies are selling parts of their business, that it is called upon to state ownership immediately. But the government has chosen to wait. We know that there are private environments that are interested, and we see, for example, in some of the companies mentioned here, that we have patience to wait a little bit, we see how interesting private Norwegian egg environments come up, as we now see in the news about Hydro Seafood, and that must be the best and desired situation. However, it is important to be alert and ready to act on these questions if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e322	I want to catch up with exactly what the Minister of Industry said about Hydro Seafood, because it is known as one of the locomotives in the Norwegian farming industry. I have also noticed that there may be interesting Norwegian buyers who have as good a bid for Hydro Seafood as foreign operators. The question is whether the Council of State would perhaps sit down and look at whether Hydro would prefer a foreign buyer, if it were an independent point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e327	I would first like to remind you that the entire Hydro model – with significant state ownership, but also with considerable private ownership – is based on the confidence that the private owners, the private shareholders, have the confidence that the state acts as an ordinary shareholder in the sense that the shareholders' interests and corporate arrangements underpin the company's influence. It's absolutely crucial. If we were to start running politics through this ownership, we would be undermining the state ownership dramatically. This means that Hydro has commercial freedom to care for the shareholders' interests, both government and private. This does not mean that a significant shareholder that the State through the Minister of Industry conducts in-depth discussions with the Hydro Management, where the Hydro Management is familiar with the Government's position on these issues. That in itself will often be enough – I expect and am sure – that the Hydro management has no desire to lie down on the side of the big owner's interests. But it does not concern the commercial freedom that a company must have, for reasons of also state ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e332	Ivar Kristiansen – for additional questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e335	That is an important question that the Tveiten representative raises today. I heard the answer to the Minister of Industry and I have to ask: can the government not be of the opinion that the problem is a lack of state ownership in Norwegian business? It doesn't seem like it should be at a higher level, does it? I believe that the comparison with the high levels of Norwegian investment abroad avoids the problem, which is relatively acute. It is clear that Norway, which is export oriented and has its market outside its borders, must have this activity at a high level. What I think is the problem is that the government lacks a strategy. We have pursued an active policy towards the shipping industry, which we have managed to maintain domestically. We now see that, in fact, there is also activity going on to exacerbate the framework conditions that you have been relatively well agreed to have kept domestically.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e342	We have a tailor-made and good tax on the shipping industry, which makes this one of our heaviest and strongest industries. It is the government's policy that it should be. We also know that this has been one of the most acute policy areas in recent years, contributing to considerable struggle and uncertainty based on debates in this Chamber. What we have now experienced through this budgetary agreement is that we have also had a much broader political foundation for the taxation of such an important business area in Norway, which, in my opinion, should be completely unproblematic for the industry to live with. It's amazing that we, a little people like the Norwegian, who are under a millionth of the world's population, own 10 pst. of the world fleet. The power of decision to own 10 pst. of the world fleet, has major ring-effects for other Norwegian industry. We have to take care of that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e352	Kjell Opseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e355	State Council Sponheim said that he and the Government were aware of the challenges that representatives Tveiten raised in their question. That's good. State Council Sponheim also said that the current companies that were mentioned in this context were aware of the Government's position. Now it is actually the Government's position that was requested in the representative's question. I did not record any concrete answer to that question, so I repeat: What is the Government's position in relation to what is now happening in much of the Norwegian business community? Historical numbers we're all familiar with. But what happens in the notes requires action, and that's what we demand.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e360	In a small country like ours, the way is very short from talking in general about these things to be able to draw conclusions that go directly to current issues and current businesses. It's hard to be a Minister of Industry and a significant shareholder and have information and at the same time be open and talk about all of these things, because these are very stock-sensitive things. But I can assure you that in the companies where the state already owns, we have a close dialogue, without going over the important line that is there, in keeping with the company's commercial freedom. The desire of the Government is, as we have stated in the ownership message, that the representative Opseth is well aware of, to take care of the diverse and private ownership. Sometimes you have to not throw yourself over the light state solution right away. The representative Opseth called for state ownership when Kværner would sell the shipyards. Now we see that if we can sit still, be awake around this, there will be interesting private owner environments that are ready to buy and city on this in Norway. And that's the best solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e367	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e370	I have a question for the Minister of Health. Since 1950, the Institute of Energy Engineering at Kjeller has been releasing radioactive substances into Nitelva at Lillestrøm. For 1963, this was unconcessional, after 1963, with a concession from the State Radiation Protection Agency. The current emission permit is issued by the State Radiation Protection Agency on 4 December 1992 and expires on 31 December of this year. Today's emissions are probably lower than they were in the 1960s, but we know that parts of the area are contaminated, and the population in the area is likely to be exposed to radiation beyond what it should be. Any further emission permit shall be granted by the Straw Delivery from 1 January 2000. My question to the Minister of Health is: Does the Council of State believe that a new emission permit should require zero emission of radioactive waste?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e379	This is a comprehensive case with many sides. Let me just briefly say that in the case of the old sins of the 1950s and beyond, I have demanded a full explanation from the control body, the State Radiation Protection Agency, of that matter, because I have not perceived it so that the IFE in its public statement on this has answered satisfactorily the questions that have been raised. Secondly, in Nitelva, half a meter below the riverbed, there are deposits of sediment from previous, old emissions, in which the straw liver has now demanded a plan to clean up. Now we also have a warehouse to place such waste in. That plan shall be in place in winter and significant resources shall be allocated to the clearing work. So to the third point, which is the real question of the representative of Rikham, namely the emissions permit that is in force today, which is valid until the end of the year. It is an emission permit that is accompanied by an audit programme. According to the information I have received, emissions today are well below the limits drawn up in the permit. However, the permit shall be renewed by On 1 January, and on the basis of the statements given by the IFE that it is a clear objective to reduce zero emissions, I believe it would be natural for the body that will deal with this, Straw Delivery, to consider tightening up the emissions permit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e388	I thank you for your answer. I agree with the Council of State that the old sins we must clean up, but the important thing is now to try to look forward to. I am also pleased that the Council of State suggests that we should consider imposing a zero emission requirement for radioactive waste. The State radiation protection system will be responsible for examining this application, and they will now have approx. one and a half months. In contact with Strålevernet today, I have been told that they have not yet received an application from the Institute of Energy Technology. That's the actual ratio. Does it worry the Council of State in such a serious matter that such an application is sent so late, and that there is then little time to deal with such an application? And secondly, for similar reactors in Sweden, we know, they've achieved zero emission. Should we not also be able to do the same in Norway when we know that they are doing it in Sweden? Shouldn't we also have clear targets for that type of reactor to have zero emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e399	I agree that this must be a desirable goal. When I don't want to do any more concrete work, it's because it's not the ministry and the health minister who's dealing with the emissions permit, it's the state radiation protection. I have full confidence that they will ensure the proper handling of this application and take care of all the considerations to be taken into account. I am referring to the fact that the Straw Delivery has ongoing information, through the control programme, on how emissions in Nitelva are compared to the concession requirements that apply today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e406	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e409	I have a question for the Minister of Health. When the Christian People's Party and, to the extent, the other government parties were in opposition, they were very critical of increased excesses. After two years with the new government, we now have to note that we have seen a dramatic increase in the excesses. Patients who are going to be rehabilitating at training institutions pay 300–400 kroner a day, and there will be a lot if they are there for three weeks. Elders who are required to have medicines on a blue prescription may in addition pay several hundred kroner in excess of what does not fall within the so-called self-interest. Right-wing is dependent on a system of partiality, if reasonable, and if it does not affect chroniclers and other weak groups. But now it's over all the boots! My question is, how can the Minister of Health defend the presentation of a budget that in this way increases the differences between those who can afford to buy drugs and get better at rehabilitation institutions, and those who don't?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e420	Like the representative, Høegh, I believe that we should have a system of moderate proportions in Norway, while at the same time we have a fair protection of those who have long-term needs for services and medicines on which there is a partiality. In the budget presented in the autumn, I would argue that there is a relatively moderate increase in the proportion of the revenue. There is an increase that is approximately equivalent to the expected price and salary developments. In addition, the Government has undertaken to review the self-employment arrangements of the training/rehabilitation institutions with a view to harmonisation. That work is in progress. In addition, we are in the process of reviewing the whole distribution system in relation to the following problem issue: how can we better protect the large consumers through, for example, a ceiling 2, which can prevent long-term and high-needed people from reaching out to the extent that they need today, while at the same time allowing the large proportion of the population with relatively small needs to pay more? We will return to Stortinget in the State budget for 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e430	Yes, it is well and good that the Minister of Health will investigate both self-interest 2, which the Storting has asked for, and other arrangements, but the problem is not that it is so difficult to investigate. The problem is if you actually want to do something about the props. It's true, as the Health Minister says, there's a relatively small increase in the excesses covered by the roof this year, but there was a grass-roots increase last year. In two years, the excess has increased by 30 pst. Right wants to abolish the so-called reference price system, because it is the patients who have to pay the essentials of the bill. 60 million. kr in increased excesses, which are not shielded by any self-interest, patients have had to pay in the year we are about to finish. I also have to ask about the training institutions: when will the Minister of Health do something more than just investigate? For this is not a matter of resolving. This is a matter of channeling money, so that older people, sick people and chroniclers do not have to pay 300-400 kroner a day.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e439	It's not as simple as the representative Høegh is now making it...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e444	Yes, it is!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e449	– that you can almost change this system with a pen stroke. It's a composite picture. There are excesses at many different levels of government, at many different levels of service and in many different areas. If you're going to have a screening system that really means something other than a fine political mark, you actually have to have something to cover this diversity. What we are doing is analysing all this diversity in cooperation with the Statistical Central Bureau, and we have committed ourselves to returning to the United Kingdom with a commitment in the 2001 budget. So I'm doing more than investigation, I'm preparing a proposal for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e454	Bring it now, and it will help many!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e459	The President refers to the Rules. There's only opportunity to stick to this, and it doesn't allow a new round. I understand that the Council's answer is given, and we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e464	I would like to ask a question to Minister of Industry Sponheim. Coast Norway is now experiencing cancellations and lay-offs, mainly in the oil-related industry and in the yard industry. There's a lot of anxiety. This does not come unexpectedly, at least not for us in the Working Party. This is why we did everything in the revised state budget in our proposal on assignment to Norwegian shipyards – among others. construction of research ships, coastguards, high-speed vessels, ferries and fishing boats. This is to a small extent followed up by the Government before now in connection with the budget proposal. In the cooperation agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government Party, we agreed to increase the licenses for the renewal of fishing boats and to double the renewal rate for ferries. These tasks have not been submitted to the Norwegian authorities. My question is: What strategy do the Council and Government have to influence, so that these missions come to Norwegian yards and secure Norwegian jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e475	I share the concern about the serious situation in many communities and for workers who experience uncertainty. In particular, this is linked to the supplier industry. When we talk about the yard industry, it is important to distinguish between the shipbuilding industry, which is the many shipyards, and the supplier industry, which is a few large ones, which is in a serious situation. That is why I am pleased that the budgetary agreement with the Labour Party has now laid the foundations for 11,000 action places – I think the result of the budget negotiations is. It allows for very good scrambling in the communities that are hardest hit. We are in good dialogue with the Verdal community, we are now in a hectic period and are about to meet the Great Society, etc. to find the tailor's eye around these things. In the case of shipyards, the situation is probably somewhat brighter. There it is per. today orders within NOK 6 billion entered this year. We know that the annual capacity is between 8 and 10 billion dollars. In addition, the orders initiated by the State budget for next year are coming. But then we have an EEA agreement that means that there must be open international tenders for these things, and the Council of State will have significant problems if he here states that we have a special strategy that would lead to Norwegian yards getting the kind of job that is going to be on an honest competition. However, I trust that Norwegian shipyards in this situation, where they need to fill the available capacity, are very competitive, and we know that it will be built for shipping companies that previously have very good experience in getting built ships in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e484	I thank you for your answer. I agree that it looks a little brighter, but it doesn't look very bright, so they should still come to the Norwegian court for a few assignments; that's why we're increasing these permissions. I do not ask the Council of States to propose changes to the EEA Agreement, but I ask about his attitude and thoughts about activity to influence, so that we get a job, and the most possible of the ferries, the fishing boats and the other boats are built in Norwegian shipyards, which, as the Council of State rightly says, are competitive in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e491	There is a better situation for shipbuilding, but we see that the volume of work that has come during this year is unevenly distributed. It is well that one yard in Trøndelag has exceeded half of the contracts that have been concluded, and that means that there are many shipyards in a difficult situation. I therefore have considerable expectations that shipyards with free capacity and with high fixed costs that run nevertheless should be able to be very competitive in the construction of the type of ship that will be triggered by the state budget, ships that are so specialized that we are the best in the world to build them. I also think it'll show that we'll be able to be the best at price. I came straight from an export trip to South Korea and have looked at the yard in South Korea, which alone has capacity up to approx. 60 ships, so it's clear there's a tough reality this industry is facing the future. This means that there must be ships that require significant elements of technology and knowledge, which we can continue to build in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e496	Steinar Bastesen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e500	I have a follow-up question for the Minister of Industry. We're the world's most powerful ship builder, and we can compete with all our partners in the EEA context. When constructing ferries, the State nevertheless assesses the construction of these ferries in Romania or Poland, which are not EEA countries. The state says that when they grant money to build fast-haul vessels, they will be built in Norway. What kind of action will the Government take to build its own vessels in Norway? And can the government imagine connecting yard support, the 9 p.m. grant, to construction in Norway, so that that grant will not be paid if the boat is not built in an EEA country?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e507	I agree with Mr. Bastisen's statement that we are the world's most powerful builder of ships – in some areas, for the most technology-based ships. We may not be in all areas, but we are very competitive in the areas where the yards have specialised to a great extent. I have no knowledge – even though it may not be my responsibility – that the state is building ferries or that the state owns ferries. I live and live in a ferry country myself, President, in the same way as the President does, and it's not the state, but private companies that appear on the pipes of the ferries I like to travel with, and that means that there are shipping companies that make the decisions here. This means that they have to deal with the EEA Agreement and have their cases in response to tenders in the EEA territory. That some of them also choose to have a real price competition by extending the tender to the EEA territory is a right that I think these private companies must have. I would also like to stress that it is not the state that builds fast-rope ships, there are two private shipping companies that are going to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e514	Ranveig Frøiland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e517	In most areas, our shipbuilding industry, which we are talking about right now, is competitive. My follow-up question to the Minister of Industry is going on with ferries. One in the agreement has now said that the ferry building that has been can double over the next few years. Then I am interested in what the minister thinks about building some ferries that go on gas, because in such a situation we know at least that our industry is competitive and can build these ferries. I also know that the Council of State has been on Stord and said that it is important to exploit a little more commercially the gas that we can take ashore. If we built a lot more ferries that go on gas, it would give industry competence – and not least we could have built these ferries in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e524	To that I have to say that I fully share the views of the representative of Frøiland on the potential of gas-powered ferries, and that we are sitting here with a unique technological environment in Norway. Nor do I intend to say in this answer something that makes it possible for me to have trouble with ESA when I leave here, but state that it is possible to put in the development potential and look at the opportunities that make it possible for not everyone to be as good as we are in delivering what the state is actually asking for. I understand that the representative of Frøiland says, and I share the view that it is entirely legal within the EEA to think and do so.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e529	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e532	I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. The main industrial challenge facing the country is that parts of Norwegian business are not replaced by new value creation and new jobs. The well-known analyst Morgan Stanley Dean Witter has found out that Oslo Stock Exchange is Europe's cheapest stock exchange. This means that, among other things: Norwegian enterprises are sold on cheap sales, on the one hand merge or cease their business. In the current year, Stortinget has dealt with both a business report and a ownership message that has come from the Ministry of State without having followed up sufficient instruments to reduce or stop this negative development with the relocation and branchisation of parts of Norwegian business. Is it so that the Government administers a policy of relocation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e541	I have asked this question earlier in this questionnaire and will not repeat the figures that show that developments beyond the 1990s have actually been such that Norwegian enterprises deal more often with enterprises outside the EU than foreign companies do in Norway. This is now part of an international and global development that is also coming inwards Norway. Enterprises specialise in some areas and want to become global actors in these areas. This means that they release other areas, which means that businesses are much more owned across borders. It is essential and important that we have strong, vital and actionable Norwegian companies that are able to participate in this much tougher and tougher regime. I cannot share such a description of reality that Norwegian companies are confused and are not involved in this. On the contrary, we feel that very strong and good Norwegian enterprises are able to participate in this development — not only large enterprises, but also several smaller enterprises. It's just traveling around to those export markets where Norway is big, you'll see what Norwegian companies actually do, which is not always as visible to the domestic tabloid press.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e548	Many of the business policies pursued — and currently pursued — have been targeted at the existing business world, without success. We see practical, real results of that. What we also know is that there are non-residents, for example. U.S. high-tech enterprises, which are interested in establishing themselves in Norway and the Nordic countries because this is developing a new unique business cluster in the IT and telecommunications sectors. These companies that say that the Nordic region is two years ahead of the rest of the world as advanced users may be interested in establishing themselves in Norway, but then they have to have world-class framework conditions. What is the Government’s idea in this area of realising this unique opportunity for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e555	I agree, in principle, with the representative of Hedstrøm. It's very important that we move the focus here. We must not only have a good industrial policy for the existing business world, but also a good industrial policy for the business world that has not yet been born, but that will sustain the well-being and prosperity of our future. An investigation prepared by the Government shows that in 15-20 years we need to double the value creation in mainland industries in order to preserve our well-being. It's a formidable task. Over the course of 15-20 years, we will have enterprises employing 800,000 people — enterprises that are not yet established. This is a big one, and today we don't have a birth rate that's good enough. Therefore, the Government has a strong commitment to an innovative industrial policy. We have managed to reverse a negative trend in industrial research. It is research-based, technology-oriented business that is future for Norway, not least on the basis of our own research environments. That's the big challenge. I also agree with the representative that there could be important headshots from foreign companies to Norway. For example, during my meeting with Nokia in Finland, it appeared that they would like to establish themselves in Norway if they have access to highly skilled labour.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e562	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e568	As usual, there are some changes to the list of questions set out, and in this context the President refers to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 9, from the representative of Helga Rullestad to the Minister for Justice, will be taken up by the representative of Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfeld. Questions 14, 15 and 17 from the representatives of Anneliese Dørum, Ursula Evje and Inge Wohnning to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, respectively, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 16, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research, who has been removed. Question 20, from the representative of Rolf Terje Klungland to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be raised by the representative of Karita Bekkedem Orheim. Question 22, from the representative of Rolf Terje Klungland to the Minister for Health, will be addressed by the representative of Torny Pedersen. Question 27, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed. Question 28, from the representative of Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed. In addition, question 24, from the representative Annelise Höegh to the Minister for Health, was raised by Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e594	«The very tight economy in many municipalities is being reduced by kindergartens when municipalities have to save money. In recent years, municipalities and parents have had to pay more and more of the actual costs because state subsidies have increased little. In the past, the country's objective has been to cover 40 pst. of the operating grant to the kindergartens. Will the Government continue to support this objective?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e601	The government sees it as a public responsibility to ensure that children's playground is a real offer for everyone. The goal is for the public to cover 70 pst. the costs of the sector to keep the parental payment at a reasonable level. Of this, the State shall cover 40 pst. and the municipalities 30 pst. Of course, the government is determined by the objective that the state should cover 40 pst. the costs of the sector. Figures from the Statistical Centre on the allocation of costs in kindergarten show that one is approaching the objective of government funding. In 1997, the country covered more than 37 pst. of the costs of the sector as a whole, 40 pst. for the private and 36 pst. for municipal kindergartens. There's every reason to believe that these pieces have increased further after that. In 1999, State operating grants increased twice, first through harmonisation with cash support rates, and in addition, additional funds were made available through the revised national budget. In total, kindergartens are charged more than DKK 1⁄2 billion. I therefore mean that the state has now almost met the objective of covering 40 pst. of the expenditure in the sector. But of course, the government will follow the cost developments in the sector carefully in the future. We want all kindergartens to have equivalent economic operating conditions, regardless of ownership, and that the parental payment should be at a level that means that everyone can afford room if they want it. Otherwise, I refer you to the upcoming news about kindergartens, where these matters will be discussed in depth. Today, more than half of the kindergartens are private. While the state does not separate in ownership, but gives the same access to all places, there are large variations in municipal resource use. The SSB's figures on the distribution of costs in the nursery sector show that municipalities have fallen by the 1990s. In 1997 the municipalities covered 19 pst. the costs of the nursery sector. This is far from the goal of 30 pst. In private kindergartens, municipalities covered only 7 pst. the cost, which has been halved since 1991. It's also just a little over half of the places in the private sector that get municipal support. It is of concern that municipalities are unable to meet their share of the cost sharing objective, especially in view of the impact on private kindergartens. This decrease in municipal co-financing means that parental payments are increasing. Self-payment rates have increased more than the general price rise in recent years, and the increase has been highest in private kindergartens. Parents now have to cover over 45 pst. of the costs. Private kindergartens also have a small financial capacity to offer classified bets by income, sibling mode or other means to ensure that kindergartens are a good place for anyone who wants to do so. I'll refer you back to the grandma of kindergartens, where the government will discuss these questions in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e618	I thank the Minister for the answer. What worries me the most is that the parental payment has increased a lot, and that the municipalities are now running and laying down kindergartens to save on the kindergarten budgets. Then I have to ask, Will 40 pst. be sufficient to stimulate municipalities to go in to bet on kindergartens? If you want to add to the big news that will be given to the autumn, you will see that the municipalities are about to lay down kindergartens, despite the fact that you are almost 40 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e625	I share the representative's concern about the high parental payment, especially in private kindergartens. The differences between one municipality and another, even from one kindergarten within one municipality to another, are very large. Telling the municipalities about the price level they are going to apply is a very strong step towards their freedom of action. But I share the concern. So to the question that was asked with a reason that the municipalities are driving and laying down kindergartens. We now have to wait and see how many kindergartens are actually being laid down. We know that advisers very often try to propose such measures, but the local government is patching it up again when they adopt their budgets. It happens every year. We also know that many of the family children's gardens are replaced each year because they are more unstable. They usually survive only a few years before families want other arrangements. They are often combined with a fit for their own children. The question if we want to go to 40 pst. in the nursery message that comes to the house, I can of course not answer today. That reply will be received when the message arrives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e634	I thank you so much for your answer. According to a report from the NRK yesterday, the prices of the parental payment vary greatly from municipality to municipality. What worries me now is that it depends on the municipality's economy and political will how much you want to bet on kindergartens. The result is often that parents have to take the greatest economic pressure. As a result, in rich municipalities it may be cheap for parents to have kindergartens, and in poor municipalities it may be very expensive. Are you willing to go in and put a price cap on the parental payment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e643	It is clear that child care in municipalities depends on the municipalities’ economy and on the politicians’ will. That's always the way it is, and that's also how it's going to be in the future. I think it's important that the big politicians and the government don't overrule the municipalities in all things. Municipal freedom must be maintained in this area as well. The fact that there are big differences was nothing new to me yesterday. I guess we have a long time, so I'm in agreement with Saxi's representative. The fact that municipalities with poor advice have a high parental pay rate, and that the rich municipalities have a low parental pay rate, is not a correct picture. There's actually a lot of variation there as well. At least that's my experience. When it comes to the question of whether we want to propose a price cap in the paper, the representative Saxi can actually not get an answer to that today. I really don't think she would have expected it either.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e655	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘What is the Council of State’s position in principle of public engagement and subsidising activities which are in direct competition with similar private activities when this is done in areas traditionally cared for by private businesses and will the Council of State, as part of the Government’s industrial policy, ensure that this does not happen?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e662	It is already in the government’s policy that public activities which are in direct competition with private enterprises should not be subsidized separately. Competition shall be carried out on a level playing field, including in relation to public aid. In general, the EEA Agreement sets a clear framework for the Government’s business support policy. The State aid law and the State aid regulation fully implement the provisions of the EEA Agreement on public aid in Norway. The main purpose of the EEA Agreement is to prohibit any public aid, unless it has been authorised by the EFTA Surveillance Authority. Where aid is to be authorised by the EFTA Surveillance Authority, it must comply with the requirements of the exemption provisions, the main exceptions being aid to small and medium-sized enterprises, aid for research and development, regional aid and aid for environmental measures. The EFTA Surveillance Authority may require Norway to recover unlawfully paid aid. In the case of aid granted to public undertakings, the same strict rules apply in principle to private undertakings. So the EEA Agreement is neutral in relation to ownership. For example, if public enterprises: capital provided under conditions more favourable than normal market economy conditions would be considered unlawful aid under the EEA Agreement. Nor can the government provide aid in the form of sales of public land or properties below market prices. This applies regardless of whether the buyer is a private or public enterprise. The Government has a continuous follow-up to the Norwegian Public Aid Act in this area. This also involves a special follow-up with regard to financial transactions between public and public undertakings in order to ensure that there is no unlawful aid which confers a competitive advantage on public undertakings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e680	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Let me just start by saying that I am happy that at least we have the EEA Agreement in place, which can be a vigilance, not least to the public sector. I also appreciate a relatively offensive response from the Council of State, for here we still have many grey zones in which it is not cleaned up. We have seen that in the campaign that has taken place, the Commune Association has signed an agreement with political parties which means that one preserves today's model in too many areas. There is a strong need for public activities to be carried out now and to safeguard their core areas in the same way that we see today that the large Norwegian groups and businesses need to do if they are to survive in the future. In that case, it is not satisfactory to continue to preserve today’s activities in the public sector, and we see that there is no active role in adjusting, for example, the role of the Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e689	I share the initial view expressed by the representative, namely that the EEA Agreement is a good agreement for Norway and contributes to sound economic conditions. It is in line with previous Norwegian policies in this area and the EEA Agreement only reinforces such a situation. It is also the responsibility of the Minister of Industry of the Government to be a guardian of compliance with these competition rules. This does not mean – as I said in my reply – that the EEA Agreement regulates ownership or otherwise prevents the State or local authority from having its own activity in this area, but it should be on equal terms, which means that the State does not give itself any advantages that private competitors do not have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e696	I am sure that the Council of State has a long list of examples of activities run by the public, but that should really only be reserved for private operations. We are going to start building on Fornebu where the state is going to be an active participant, and in the municipalities we have cinema and gardening operations. I have myself received a reply from the Minister of Administration that one will not clear up a special situation in Wefsn, where the municipality directly competes with a private operator in its own health studio, which threatens the operation of the private business that has to run completely on its own and on its own. I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I thought was offensive. I ask the Council of State to confirm that he will now take the initiative to bring about clearer borders in this area, for there are many thousand people in turn here, and there are billions of dollars in circulation in public activities in Norway that can be managed and operated in a better and more efficient way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e703	This issue is really about two things. One is that there should be a level playing field even where the public, whether state or municipality, has chosen to have its own activity in this area. Here I have been offensive in my answer by expressing that it should be. The Ministry of Economic Affairs will be a very careful watchman to ensure that this happens. And if we don't, the EFTA Surveillance Authority will take care of it. That's the way it has to be. The second part of this, namely a more political issue, is: What should the public compete with private individuals? Here, there is a great deal of tension in the views of the Storing, which is largely grouped by a right-left axis. For my part and on behalf of my party, I have a rather clear principleal view that where the public has a task, it is in areas where there is a significant market failure and where it will not be possible to solve by private individuals, and where there is obvious political importance to take. That's a point of view I still want to base in my further political work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e717	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘Norway is at the bottom of the countries with which it is natural to compare in terms of entrepreneurship. There are far fewer people in Norway who start their own business than people in these countries. It does not seem very attractive to bet for yourself in Norway. This is a danger signal when we know that the need to constantly create new businesses is a very important task. Is it possible to point to explanations for this lack of a sense of establishment, and what should be done to change this picture?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e726	I would like to draw the attention of the representative Andersen to the fact that data from The European Observatory for SMEs in 1997 show that both Sweden and Finland are behind us in the number of newly established enterprises measured against the total farm mass. However, I agree with Andersen's representative that there is a great need to create new businesses and jobs in Norway. I think that over time we have lost some of the foundations that used to be a natural part of our culture, without giving the explanation behind this. It's probably very complex. However, in the Action Plan for Small Enterprises and in the ‘Simplify Norway’ initiative, the government has highlighted some areas of intervention that we believe are essential to stimulate entrepreneurship and growth in Norwegian business. It is now one year since the action plan for small businesses was launched. The last status report shows that we have started the follow-up work well. A separate forum for small businesses, consisting of small business managers and organisational representatives, has been tasked with following and making input into our further efforts. Efforts towards small businesses and entrepreneurs will be stepped up to the next year, for example: in the form of enhanced innovation activity under the auspices of the SND and the Research Council, stimulation of private risk capital and work to reduce the form field. In addition, the Government will focus on awareness raising. Much of the mind-creating work must be done to the next generation of value creators, and here it is already done a lot through the Government’s initiative, ‘entrepreneurship in school’. However, positive attitudes in those parts of general government that are directly or indirectly engaged in business development are also important. Here, the ‘Nutritional municipalities’ project can refer to the dissemination of good results and experience on how the public sector can develop into a positive competitive factor for Norwegian business. Several other municipalities and county councils are now looking at the possibility of developing similar projects under their own direction. I believe that positive attitudes towards running a business, combined with good framework conditions, are essential for many more people to find it attractive to start their own business.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e741	I thank you for the answer, which I see as reasonably positive and interesting. In the summer, the European Business Organisation UNICE presented a report confirming that there was little innovation in Norway compared to the United States, Japan and also in relation to the average for Europe. In my view, this report should raise more awareness and concern here in Norway, because we know that very many of the companies that are going to carry the welfare community further in the future are not yet established. Entrepreneurship and capacity for innovation are the very foundation of our country. If we're going to get a world-class business climate here in Norway, it's a main task to develop positive attitudes to entrepreneurship and to those who want to start for themselves. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State to answer whether it is possible in the Government to envisage following up this study from UNICE in order perhaps to reveal something more about, and a little more detailed, what are the underlying reasons why we in Norway have relatively fewer corporate formations than elsewhere in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e750	I could have asked this additional question myself, and I agree with all the assumptions for it. It is absolutely essential that we in Norway succeed in improving innovation and in having a policy and environment that will give birth to more of the unborn businesses that we obviously need. And we don't have that birth rate today. The reasons why we can't trigger any more are enough complex. I think it's like we have a significant innovation in Norway, but we have a lack of ability to commercialise very much of the innovation that's going on. We're good at technology and knowledge in Norway, but we're not very good at making stores out of all this technology and knowledge, nor at finding markets for it. The American success in this area, which has been quite adventurous in these years, can just be explained by their ability to combine all the exciting innovation that takes place in the research environments with commercialization. And here we have a cultural problem. To give an example, it also means that we have a new instrument, which is now approved by ESA, which is launched in November and which is just about to stimulate research and innovation in institutions to become business owners.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e757	I noticed the Council of State's response, and I will allow myself to give a small example of the public's negative attitude towards self-doing. The Ministry of Industry established in 1992 a new and reinforced anti-contractor clause to outsource opportunities for small individual enterprises to participate in public construction. The attitudes of the anti-contractor clause are that the small, independent individual enterprises are almost undesirable in public projects and that the work should preferably be carried out exclusively by workers with employee status. This is an example of the public's negative attitude towards individual enterprises. We know, of course, that most companies are just starting out in small businesses, like single-man companies, and this anti-contractor clause is not at all a good element in creating positive attitudes to starting on its own. Will the Council consider removing this discriminatory public closure for the small individual enterprises as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e766	I share the basic angle of incidence expressed by the representative here. We're busy with small businesses, and then we're looking so high that we don't get the smallest of the smallest businesses to be the sole proprietorships. It must be the case in this country that it is allowed to live off of their hands and an account as a self-employed person and not just of a pay bag that comes once a month. For a liberal, as I am, it is absolutely essential for a human being that it has good opportunities to be independent of an employer. It's basic and good. So we've gotten a trend that contractors are used for solutions to be competitive on large buildings, for example, that foreign companies can be taken in, etc. We need to clean this up, but there should not be any obstacle to being allowed, not least around the many communities we have, to have sole proprietorships as a form of enterprise, which is a flexible and good system, often in combination with other industrial activities. On this point, I support the representative's basic position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e776	‘Romania was a useful co-player for NATO during the bombings in the Balkans this spring. Now this country loses huge sums every day, because shipping on the river Danube is blocked. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs take the initiative to ensure that Romania does not have to take these losses on its own and that the Danube can be opened up to normal traffic?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e783	Both for Romania and for other countries in the region, the Danube is of great economic importance. NATO air operations resulted in the destruction of a number of bridges over the Danube, with the result that parts of the main course today are closed to ship traffic. The closure has caused significant losses to both Romania and other neighbouring Yugoslavia. In addition, the risk of floods and floods has increased, as a result of the many obstacles in the rivercourse. The international community has a responsibility to help the countries of the region rebuild the post- Kosovo conflict. However, the main responsibility for these problems lies with President Milosevic and his regime. They are responsible for the great human and material destruction during the Kosovo conflict. Today, the Serbian authorities are refusing ships from neighbouring countries access to their channel systems, as an alternative route to traffic on the Danube. Belgrade also shows no willingness to cooperate in the clearing of the river. In addition to training these measures, the Belgrade authorities require international assistance to rebuild damaged bridges. As is known, it is not appropriate for Norway to provide this type of assistance to Serbia as long as the Milosevic regime is in power. This is also a unified attitude among our allies. At the same time, it is unreasonable that the sanctions regime against Yugoslavia should affect neighbouring countries. These include: the risk of major flooding into the spring of a country such as Hungary if damaged bridge bodies are not removed from the estuary until winter. The issue of relief in the sanctions regime is now being discussed in regional forums in south-east Europe and in the EU, including in the context of the Stability Pact for South-East Europe, where the EU and the OSCE have key roles. From the Norwegian side, we actively participate in these discussions. I took the last case up in my conversations with, among other things. Minister for Foreign Affairs Albright and EU foreign policy coordinator Solana during the Middle East Summit in Oslo. We also have a close dialogue with the Serbian opposition on this matter. Norway is ready to support the Danube-side clean-up projects which it appears are feasible to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e800	I thank the Foreign Minister for his optimistic and active attitude and for the answer. Romania is a young democracy that was at home in its development during the war period, and which has a lot to take on, especially when it comes to economic and structural development. Romania also supports the sanctions against Serbia. Therefore, it is a crossroads that this country has to bear such burdens even while its domestic tasks are very demanding. It's like a 40-50-million loss. dollars per year. month. There is a lot of money for a country like Romania, and we know that Milosevic and his regime will not help cover such a loss. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs see any possibility that NATO and the EU can join forces to cover the loss, among other things? Romania lir?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e807	Norway and the other NATO countries are very grateful for the solidarity shown by Romania in the context of the Kosovo conflict, and as a result, the reopening of the ship is a high priority for all of us. I think that is the will of us, and it is probably also made visible in the work done in the context of the Stability Pact to contribute financially to Romania. I have discussed this with the Romanian Minister for Foreign Affairs on a few occasions. This is a more comprehensive problem, and I think it is important to see its regional character. I know that the issues were discussed at the summit in the context of the Central European Free Trade Agreement in Budapest now on 19 and 20 October, and I also know that there is close contact between the EU and the applicant countries in the region on these problems. It is my hope that it will be possible to find some openings that will enable us to help clean up the Danube, and if these possibilities exist, we will help with that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e814	I thank you for your answer. Herald Tribune had an article yesterday, November 2nd, where one was that France and Germany were working for a clean-up and, among other things, for a clean-up. to make a provisional bridge at the second largest city in Serbia, Novi Sad. Their respect for the country that suffered from a loss and risks flooding was decisive for the hold that was expressed in this article. The ten countries along the Danube, which is 2,900 km long, depend on the open waterway. Will the Council of State support such an initiative, as mentioned, from France and Germany, even if there is a problem in the EU and NATO in the discussions on the progress of these clean-up actions, which is very important for the whole region?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e821	I think I can assure the representative that there is a broad consensus within NATO, and also within the EU, that we must do something for neighbouring countries, and also for the Serbian population. I think it is important that the Community position be maintained, and that is why I am pleased with the dialogue we are now seeing within NATO, and also vis-à-vis the countries of the region. We are in contact with the EU on these issues, and we would like to support – as I said in my previous reply – the initiatives that are being taken. I hope and believe that it will be possible to reach a broad agreement on how to do this, precisely on the matter that the representative expresses: the need to actively show support to those countries that may have suffered the most during the Kosovo conflict, namely the countries of the region.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e829	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘According to a survey in Today’s Economy, the delimitation of ownership of fish farming The Ministry of Fisheries has sent out at the hearing would make it difficult for larger Norwegian breeding companies and non-resident owned companies established in Norwegian farming to take over Hydro Seafood ASA, which is now on sale. Does this bring trueness?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e838	I can start by saying that this doesn't mean correctness. On 26 October 1999, the Government, after consulting the Commission, sent proposals for a regulation on the control of changes in the ownership of the farming industry. The proposal is based on Section 6 of the Breeding Act. The consultation proposal proposes that no one, as a general rule, should be able to control more than 15 pst. of the concessions granted for the rearing of salmon and trout. This currently involves a limit of about 115 concessions. In the light of the information I have on direct and indirect ownership of the industry, the largest company in the farming industry and the second largest company in the industry may merge without compromising the proposed restriction. I would also like to inform you that there is access open to dispensation from the 15 pst limit. where specific social or economic considerations so warrant. Until the summer of 1991, the Breeding Act prohibited the holding of majority interests in more than one plant if there were no specific considerations to the contrary. This is to prevent too much concentration of dominant interests from being concentrated in few hands. In the context of the 1991 amendment, it was expressed that the aim was to continue to seek to avoid large collections of concessions in one hand. Since the change in the law, the trend in industry has been in the direction of concentration of ownership towards fewer and larger companies. Hydro Seafood, as the largest breeding company in Norway for salmon and trout, has a majority interest in 87 concessions. Furthermore, there are four companies that hold between 20 and 25 concessions. The concession scheme and other industrial regulation have been an important prerequisite for the profitable growth that has taken place and has made it interesting to invest in the industry. At the same time, the concession scheme gives some an exclusive right to coastal sites – a part of our common resource base – a mechanism that has the effect of limiting the possibility of new actors. Without a limit to the number of concessions that can be held by an owner, there is, in reality, open to a monopoly of the industry. The Government therefore considers that we should have rules that prevent the regulatory system from allowing exclusive rights to the Norwegian coast to be brought together by a few practitioners and that could impede effective competition between salmon producers. The time has therefore come to set a limit under the Breeding Act to prevent large companies from buying even higher than Hydro Seafood has done and becoming so large that they are given a dominant position, which, in the Government's view, will also conflict with the particular social importance of the industry, as long as there is no room for the distribution of new concessions. As my answer shows, the wording in today's business life is not correct, and I can't see that there is a basis for the angle the newspaper has given to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e859	I would like to thank the Council of State for the clarification he has given in his reply. The breeding industry has evolved into a heavy and important industry in both national and regional economic terms. The interest, optimism and willingness to invest are great, which provides a basis for the creation of new jobs. My question to the Minister for Fisheries is: When does the Council of State estimate that there is a basis for the award of new concessions in the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e868	It's true that the questioner is saying that the farming industry is perhaps one of the most important growth industries we have along the Norwegian coast. It is therefore important that we create a basis for a balanced growth that at the same time provides profitability. Let me say this: the industry has been under strict regulation after the salmon agreement with the EU was concluded by the previous government in the summer of 1997. The leasing agreement has actually formed the basis that we have been able to regulate the industry economically, and that is why there is so much interest in investing in the industry today. We have good cooperation with industry in regulating production through feed quotas. And I can tell you that until next year there has been a significant increase in feed quotas. But we keep following up, so that, in time, we can grant new concessions to meet the growth needs of the industry in relation to what is happening in the markets. We're assessing it so that maybe next year we have to see if we don't have to have a new concession round if the industry still has growth in the market, as it has in the last two years. There is a process that will be started in cooperation with the industry, and I think it will also be a process of great political interest.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e880	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The coastal fishing fleet mastering system is a good measure to modernise and adapt this fleet’s capacity. Unfortunately, some vessels fall outside the scheme. It looks like these are vessels that do not have a vessel quota in cod fishing. Is it possible to change the regulation to cover also vessels engaged in other fishing activities and not having a vessel quota for cod?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e889	Initially, I would like to refer to the regulation for the allocation of grants for renewal and capacity adjustment in the Norwegian fishing fleet of 3 May 1999. The scheme contains elements both from the previous scheme of subsidisation for contracting and the scheme of grants for conditioning in the fishing fleet. The purpose of this aid scheme is to combine capacity adjustment with renewal and structural adjustment in the fishing fleet. In this way, a better basis can be created for profitable units in the fleet. We know that large parts of the Norwegian fishing fleet are in the situation that there is a great need for renewal. At the same time, it is important that renewal does not contribute to an increase in fishing capacity that conflicts with the overall fisheries policy objectives of a profitable development of the fishing industry and the sustainable management of our fishing resources. It was allocated 50 million for the current year. kr to this grant scheme. In addition, there were 18 million. kr to condemn the fishing agreement between the State and the Norwegian Fisheries Team. Restricted funds require priorities. In order to have an effect on both fleet renewal and capacity limitation, it has been necessary to limit the system to the categories of vessels where access restrictions on participation in fishing or vessels with concessions have been introduced. This shall ensure that capacity is removed within those groups where the regulatory need is the greatest due to overcapacity. Overcapacity increases the total costs of vessels and undermines the objective of profitability. Under that regulation, in addition to vessels with a vessel quota for cod fishing, grants may be granted to vessels with access to shrimp fishing in the Norwegian economic zone south of 62° N and in the Skagerrak. The grant scheme also includes parts of the North Sea jet fleet and vessels authorised to participate in the coastal group’s fishing for mackerel with seines, nets and lines. Vessels over 13 m having access to fishing for sein north of 62° N and not having access to grants under this Regulation. The amendment of this legislation to allow access to the system for several groups of vessels will be applicable only if one achieves a real reduction in fishing capacity. However, it is not appropriate to extend the system to include groups of vessels which do not fish in restricted fisheries. Finally, I would like to mention that in the budgetary agreement with the Labour Party for next year's budget, an appropriation of 35 million has been set aside. DKK in addition to the original 50 million grant proposal. kr under the fleet renewal and capacity adjustment grant scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e906	I thank the Council of State for the answer. That was a good information he provided on the increase in the grant framework. But there are a couple of groups that I think are neglected and that have access restrictions. It's the sprat fleet, which has some kind of access limit in order to be able to operate sprat fishing. It is also the coastal shrimp fleet, which operates shrimp trawling on the fjords with a good deal of old vessels that they would like to convene and extract from that fishing. I guess that also applies to part of the sprinkling fleet. It is therefore not about increasing capacity in those fisheries, but it is a real reduction we are talking about here. My supplementary question is therefore: is it not possible to obtain a regulation which may also include these vessels?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e915	As I said in my post, priority must be given to limited resources, and the main priority will be to take out capacity within those groups where the regulatory need is greater. In the case of the two groups mentioned, I believe that, in particular, this applies to vessels which also operate in other fisheries, and which may come under other arrangements by taking part in other fisheries. As far as coastal shrimp fishing is concerned, we cannot see any reason to extend the scheme on the basis of the financial resources we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e924	I thank you again for the answer, although it did not clarify, and the answer was negative for the fleet groups I pointed out. There are some sprat boats that I don't think have access to other fisheries covered by the scheme. In the case of the coastal shrimp trawl fleet, a group has been treated with a vote in respect of the allocation of cod rights. In the past, this fleet had some by-catch of cod, but as it was introduced into the shrimp trawl, it was completely lost. And so they have no opportunity to get any historical rights or cod quotas, so I'm asking the Council of State to look at this group again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e934	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to prioritize and use resources to lay down detailed rules for the taxation of benefits for workers who can park free of charge with their employer or use computer games when outsourcing their home PC from the employer?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e941	It follows from the general rule in Section 42 of the Tax Act that benefit gained from employment is taxable profit. This also applies in cases where the benefit is provided in kind, the right to use capital goods, etc. This would significantly discriminate between taxpayers who receive their pay in cash and taxpayers who receive their pay in kind if the rules were to differ at that point. Tax obligations on benefits in kind are therefore, in the interests of fiscal equal treatment of employees regardless of their pay system, the natural starting point and the clear general rule. Several former governments of the Workers' Party have considered that benefits in kind as a starting point should be taxable and made proposals accordingly. In this connection, I show that the government of Jagland most recently in Ot.prp. No 1 for 1997-98 indicated that it is important to maintain the principle of taxation on benefits in kind. In view of the fact that it is possible for the employer and the employee to agree that a large part of the salary should be provided in kind, it is important that the general rule on taxation be followed. However, for some types of minor benefits in kind, it has been considered appropriate, taking into account reasonable and practical legislation, to exempt from the general rule on taxation. Such rules are reflected in the provision of benefits in kind. As new forms of naturalisation are constantly being provided, regular revision and updating of the legislation in this area are necessary. The Ministry of Finance is currently reviewing the area of tax treatment of benefits in kind with a view to such an update. In current legislation, the benefit of private use of computer equipment is borrowed from the employer, except for taxation. The regulation does not contain explicit rules on tax treatment if the loaned computer equipment contains computer games software. However, it follows from the considerations underlying the rules that the employee's use of such software is initially not subject to tax exemptions. However, if a computer game is included as a minor part of a total software package, there will be no reason for the equality authorities to tax the benefit to the taxpayer of the use of the computer game. In the context of the general review of the tax treatment of benefits in kind, the Ministry of Finance will also consider the rules on computer equipment borrowed from the employer. However, it is not appropriate to provide for self-regulatory rules that impose tax obligations on the use of computer games. With regard to the benefit of free parking in the employer’s parking space, no provision in the legislation in kind currently exempts the benefit from taxation. However, according to the practice of equations, such an advantage is not taxed. The justification may include, inter alia: shall be the technical consideration of the equation. This, too, is a field which will be assessed in the context of the general review of the area of taxation of benefits in kind. In particular, this applies to the parking arrangements which involve current and significant operating costs for the employer. Such costs are, as you know, deductible for the employer. I can't say at this point what the result of the review will be in this area. However, the assessment of any tax liability would have as its starting point that where it is in the employer's interest to bring the car to work, for example: for driving to customers and others, no tax shall be levied on the benefit of free parking.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e956	I thank the Minister for the answer. I understand this from the answer to my two questions that it is not appropriate to go into the details of this with the deployment of the PC, among other things. with regard to the computer game I have seen through the press described as an area that it could be relevant to tax. It is now confirmed that it is not relevant to assess it. The Minister of Finance was also involved in the legislation on the taxation of parking arrangements for workers who use their car in the work of an employer. And I have to say that I think the work of entering into and making fine-tuning rules in this area, which you prioritize, will be very difficult and problematic. There are many people, I think most people, who have to use their car to and from work in Norway. If you want to go in and look at what is a parking space with the employer or not, and what should be taxed or not, it becomes very complicated and difficult. And I think you're spending a lot more time on this than on tightening up taxation in other areas of our system of equations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e965	As I said in my answer, there is nothing new that this government has discovered, that it is considering the current taxation of benefits in kind. It would be unreasonable, as I said in my main answer, if the benefits in kind and the payment in kind as compensation for work were to be taxed quite differently. It is true that I confirm that it is not relevant to tax the advantage that you have with computer games that come with PCs that are borrowed from the employer. As far as parking benefits are concerned, it is clear that it can cause serious problems, and therefore I will not conclude completely until the review has been completed. But I think it should be satisfactory from the perspective of the representative Nordtun to find out that it is not in any case in the case where it is in the employer's interest for the employee to bring the car with him, for example. because he is required to visit customers or carry out other tasks in which the employer is interested, he will be subject to taxation. If, on the other hand, it is only in the employee's own interest and it is a matter of great benefits, you might have to consider this in more detail. But we must, among other things, consider whether it is possible to find a borderline between what is to be taxed and what is not to be taxed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e974	I don't think there's any disagreement between me and the Minister of Finance about an ongoing assessment of the benefits in kind. I think all the parties in this House agree that we must have that. But my question really was, what should be a priority in this work? I think that designing a parking code would be inappropriate from the point of view of resource use when designing it. The system must be designed in such a way that workers have an understanding of the rules established. This, plus control of the system, I think is going to be very difficult. My final question is: Is it right from the point of view of the Minister of Finance to give priority to this work, instead of the great work we have on legislation on the registration of commuters? This is something we have repeatedly called for, and as the Minister of Finance has said, we should come back to the national budget. It hasn't come.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e983	Yeah, if that's the right priority? If we agree that we should go through the legislation on taxation of benefits in kind, then we need to use some resources to do so at regular intervals, because new forms of benefits in kind are constantly emerging. The free parking space may not be so new, but it is a well-known case that, especially in press areas, the value of such a parking space may be quite significant. Therefore, I do not believe that it is wrong to assess this in more detail. If it is possible to find practical boundaries is another matter. I agree with Tore Nordtun that we must have legislation that is practical. In addition, when the last question is raised, a referral is now being sent to the hearing. The matter that the representative Nordtun asked for will probably come, but the consultation period will have to run first.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e993	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘North Norway is exempt from VAT on electricity for residential heating, while district heating for residential heating in the same area is subject to VAT. In this case, the government’s objectives on environmentally friendly water heating systems are very difficult to place on the market, and it does not promote the use of district heating in North Norway. This is not a good environmental policy. When will the Council of State address this distortion of competition?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1002	It is true, as the representative Torny Pedersen points out, that there are VAT exemptions for household electricity in the three northernmost countries. The exemption was introduced at the same time as the VAT system from 1970. I am generally of the opinion that State contributions for different purposes should be provided most appropriately from directly available funds, rather than indirectly in the form of tax exemptions. Among other things, exemption schemes are aimed at creating demarcation problems, including the demarcation between the objectives to be given priority. The need for exemption, justified on different grounds, is changed over time. The VAT legislation to ensure the income of the country will not reflect such needs and is therefore not suitable for good purposes in addition to the law, for example environmental protection. A goal of achieving different good objectives through the VAT system would make the legislation less robust. In addition, I refer to the mention of the VAT system and the need for changes to it, in the Storing Communication on the national budget for 2000. Changes in the VAT system are assessed, inter alia, by: to extend the charging basis to several services. This review also shows that, as a general rule, it is better to provide direct and targeted support for priority areas than to use specific schemes through the VAT system. I therefore do not think it appropriate to extend the current VAT exemption for electricity in the three northern states to include district heating heating in the same area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1011	I thank you for your answer. As is the case, it has been very important to get through with the VAT exemption on residential heating in North Norway. It helps to reduce power prices. We know today that when we were all connected to the stamp system, one might say, the electricity prices in North Norway – not just in North Norway, but in the districts – actually became a little bit more difficult. And we have pretty high power prices today. But in addition to the fact that the VAT exemption works like it does for electricity, I believe it is important for North Norway to also start using bioenergy, with recycling in total, in order for us to be in the process of saving energy, hydropower. I therefore think it is great that we have alternative energy grant schemes. But I want to ask whether the Council of State thinks that's the best way for North Norway right now, because right now we have some problems getting started with alternative energy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1020	To go straight to the question, the answer is yes. I believe that it is more targeted and appropriate to provide direct grants for purposes that you want to pursue than indirectly to provide them with a tax relief, for example. VAT relief. In the Ministry of Finance, we are constantly under pressure to try to take care of all other reasons than that required by the VAT Act – because there are many good purposes that should have been achieved! However, if the legislation is to be robust and practical, we cannot allow it to become a sweat cheese of VAT legislation. That is why we must insist that the legislation should remain unchanged as far as possible, and rather we need to meet the need to stimulate, for example. for the use of new energy sources in the case of direct grants.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1027	I thank you again for the answer. With regard to the new plant of bioenergy in the Saltdalen in Northern Ireland, which one is now thinking of starting up after New Year, a project in relation to two housing houses to try to find out the cheapest way to heat the waterborne, I would like to have a response from the Council if it is possible for them to apply for a grant, and get it, in order to run this project. Also in Mo i Rana they are running a project through Mo Industripark. In fact, they have a project in relation to old people's homes, and they have found out that they are going to install panel ovens because the VAT rate was so expensive, but they have not decided completely. Is it possible for them to obtain help if they apply for a grant?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1036	Now that question is really addressed to the wrong government council, because the grant schemes in question are not my responsibility. It is probably the oil and energy department that is responsible here. However, for information, significant increases in the 2000 appropriations have been proposed, so at least it is worth a try, without me thus predicting what the outcome of such an application might be.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1044	This question, from the representative of Helga Rullestad to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by the representative of Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfeld.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1047	It is actually I who have asked the question, but for formal reasons it says Helga Rullestad's name. ‘I have been informed that most Norwegian couples are rejected at the Norwegian Sorenprinters’ Office when they ask to be married on a Saturday. This is a difference in handling compared to those who ask for a church wedding. Will the Council of State take the initiative that couples who want to marry can follow the Norwegian tradition of marrying on Saturday, regardless of whether they want a church or a civil marriage?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1056	There are many couples who want to be married on Saturdays. However, the courts are not required to offer marriages on Saturdays, and it is therefore up to each court to assess such an offer. Most of the villagers in the larger cities and some sorencies offer Saturday vigilance as a fixed arrangement. In addition to this, Saturday vigilance is due to the volunteering of the judges at the individual office. It's per. Today, it is not appropriate to oblige the courts to offer on-the-spot fraud. However, in the light of the strong desire for Saturday rotation, the Ministry will recommend to the courts to assess the possibility of such an offer in their district. The number of weddings and crews varies from place to place, and this will therefore not be the case with an equally broad offer across the country. The Ministry will invite the courts to find local solutions adapted to local circumstances. The aim is for the public to receive, as a minimum, an offer of Saturday betrayal every Saturday of the year, either by the local court or by a court in reasonable proximity. I would also like to mention that in NOW 1999:22, the Courts at first instance, it is proposed that the conduct of the wedding ceremony itself should also be carried out by others, for example. municipal officials. The investigation is under consultation, with a deadline of 31 December 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1067	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I thought was positive. It's about equality regardless of belief and outlook. Now it depends on where you live, whether they are willing to go to the janitor's office, if you know someone with wedding skills who is willing to go through you, etc. I've been a little upset on behalf of young people who want to get married, who want to follow Norwegian tradition. I think it's good that more people get married, and we have to organize for it. And I understand that the wedding is an important part of the celebration, that it's not the same thing to get married on Friday and then have the party on Saturday. I think it's okay with a first-time call, and I'll wait to move on until we see if this works, and maybe come back. I'm quite busy with this likeness in terms of faith and vision of life, in terms of knowledge and friendship, and in relation to geography, even though I understand that one cannot have the most extreme things happening. I just want to hear if the council agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1078	The representative Ausdal Starrfelt and I share the approach, namely that we are facing a very solemn act, and that people must have a real choice. That's also why I expressed myself as I did in the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1083	This is just joy. I would like to ask an additional question when it comes to this with new ones that can get marriage skills, for example. municipal servants. I know that the Human-Ethical Association has applied for such competence. I'm positive that they should be able to get it, but I'm also busy that it's not enough alone, so people shouldn't be sent to a private organization to get married. And I'm a little interested in both whether the Council of States is positive that the Human-Ethical Federation can acquire such competence, and whether he thinks it's not sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1088	I haven't thought about the question before now, but on a principle basis, I have to be open to it, because we give marriage rights to different religious communities, and humanety is a variation within this field in Norway. But I have probably been concerned primarily in my answer with getting a practical arrangement that is best for those involved, so that you get respect for the action, as the representative mentioned in his question. I will also take with me what is involved in the question at last, in my further work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1099	I would like to ask the following questions to the Council of State Dørum: ‘Every day, Norwegian police arrest foreigners with unknown or false identity. 274 is revealed this year. False identity is mainly acquired through well-organised criminals, who make up to $55,000 per smuggle. ‘Employers’ also make good use of illegal immigrants. The police believe that the Nordics are being seen as a market for illegal residence. What will the Council of State do with the criminal responses to ‘employers’ in the country that are exposed to having illegal immigrants as labour?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1108	It is true that the police detect many foreigners with false identity. Most of these, however, have come to the country as asylum seekers, and not to work black. Norwegian employers are rarely involved in trafficking in human beings or illegal immigration, but in particular small businesses and individuals employ non-residents without a legal residence. One cannot, however, say that illegal work represents a serious crime problem in Norway. To that, there are enough conditions for transparent. The number of reports for the use of illegal labour has varied, but has shown a positive trend in recent years. In 1997, 168 cases of illegal work were reported, while in the first half of this year only 21 cases were notified. A contributing cause of the high figure in 1997 is probably due to ‘Action black work’, where, for example, the construction industry was lurked. The upper criminal framework for the use or dissemination of illegal work is up to two years in prison. In the light of recent developments, I see no need to take any initiative to increase the criminal framework. In the case of organised human trafficking, in particular by asylum seekers, we are facing a much more serious problem. These included: Against this background, the 1997 Storting decided to raise the upper penalty framework for organised trafficking in human beings for the purpose of winning, from two to five years in prison.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1119	I have to thank the Council of State for the answer, but I'm not satisfied with what he says, because he really bypasses what I'm asking. The numbers I have referred to are collected from the police alien sections, and in a number of cases, the illegal residents have lived and worked here for years before they have been exposed and sent out of the country. And there are not asylum seekers on the run I'm talking about, but there are foreigners who live and work in hiding from Norwegian authorities. That's the problem. The police have no idea how many strangers are hiding in Norway today without the authority's knowledge. There is no exit control for persons who have received a visit or business visa to the country. My question is: does the Council of State for Justice want to do something in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1128	The question can be translated as follows: Does the Minister of Justice think it acceptable to commit an illegal act? The answer, of course, is no. What, then, is needed to combat it? Firstly, we know that we will have an exit check with the Schengen implementation. Second, of course, we're going to knock down any case we know about, but we're actually relying on good, law-abiding citizens to report this to the police. So I want to say from this pulpit that anyone who knows that the employer engages non-residents in undeclared work should do their civic duty and tell the Norwegian police. Fighting crime must be socially sound. And you know this, you should say from – then the police have something to act on. When the police have something to act on, they will of course act. We must always assume that this country is made up of law-abiding citizens, who are interested in fighting crime. If the citizens join forces, the work of the police will also be all the easier.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1135	The councils are getting closer to what I'm after. Again, I would like to point out and ask for the penalties for employers who engage in foreign labour that are illegal here. The Nordic region is clearly a market for foreigners who try all the methods to start a new life – it must also be agreed by the Council of State. One of the reasons why more people are trying to get to Norway is, in most cases, that government's liberal attitudes towards foreigners who are trying to stay as an asylum or on a humanitarian basis. Persons living underground are still seeking contact with NOAS, the Norwegian asylum seeker organisation. NOAS provides advice as far as they can, while not encouraging anyone to live in hiding from the authorities. But I would like to ask a question to the Council of State in this context: what should be the duty of this type of organisation in terms of reporting obligations on foreign residents living in hiding and working illegally and black in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1144	There is freedom of organisation in Norway. This means that all organisations are subject to the same rights and obligations as all citizens in Norwegian society. This means that every citizen, whether or not the citizen is a member of an organisation, has an obligation to comply with Norwegian law, and to follow up the rights and obligations arising therefrom. This applies wherever this citizen is engaged: in a voluntary organisation, in a job, as an employer, as an employee or in the ordinary social life. That's what the Norwegian legal basis rests on, and that's what we have to think about. And I'm going to base that on. It goes without saying that no one deserves to be found illegal in Norway. No one's earned that anyone's wondering. The most important and powerful way you can fight it is that people who know about this, also tell the authorities who can clean up the situation, and make sure to stop criminal activity.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1154	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘Solution conditions in Norwegian prisons are currently not organised to deal with nurturing prisoners. This is unsustainable both for the prisoners concerned and for those in prison. How does the Council of State feel that this problem can be solved, and what will he do?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1163	It is a fundamental principle in Norway that persons who are convicted do not lose their ordinary rights and duties as citizens of society during the criminal proceedings. In 1998, responsibility for health services to prison inmates was transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and prison health services are now directly regulated by the Local Health Act. The main objective of the reform was to ensure that prisoners can receive a health service equivalent to that provided to the general population. With regard to the principle of liability, which was most recently assessed in the context of the criminal justice notification, I do not believe that there is a need for any change. Both the Minister of Health and I are concerned that prison inmates have a good health service. A sick patient is treated by prison health services or sent to a hospital if necessary. If the prison director and the prison health service consider the prisoner to be incapacitated, acquittal interruption is provided under Section 33 of the Prison Act for a shorter or longer period of time. I recently received a letter from the Norwegian Prisons and Free Care Association, where they addressed problems related to nursing inmates, and I would like to say the same here as in my reply to the prison staff. There may seem to be a need for a strengthened offer to nursing inmates, and this is something the Ministry of Justice is looking into with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. It seems to go against that we will get an increasing number of nursing inmates, and there is reason to believe that this problem will continue. Among the solutions that should be considered are: whether we are able to use municipal home care to a greater extent in some establishments with low safety levels and whether some facilities should be set up in closed facilities to enable health authorities to enter into a day-to-day supply of care on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1172	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am aware of the involvement of Norwegian Prisons and Free Care Associations in the matter, and what I think is special here, is not least the incriminating situation of the inmates by the fact that ordinary civil servants in prisons have to deal with services that are normally assigned to health professionals. And the second is, of course, the problem for employees who do not have education in that field and who have to take on such tasks. I think the Council of State sort of takes a little light on the problem, because the conditions we have been described by Ila, at the latest in the newspaper in the last few weeks, describe unsustainable conditions. Ila is not the only place with this problem. I would like to ask the Council of State: what is the extent of this problem? I have the impression that someone in this country is simply seeking a pardon for health reasons. What does he intend to do in the short term? This has to be done in the short term.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1183	I can't at this moment quantify the problem, but I've committed myself to getting the first insight into it personally by going through what I'll call the reconciliation chain, namely the relationship between the prison system and the institutions outside the prison system or the criminal services that both deal with inmates when they're inside, and that have to do with inmates when they're going out. That's what we call administrative cooperation. I then want to self-confidently satisfy myself that we do not have grey zones between labour authorities, education authorities, health authorities and the prison system. The most effective way a state council can do this is actually to go through this chain on its own, and I'm going to do that. That's what I'm going to do within the types of reconciliation regimes we have, from the strings to the mild ones, and I'm going to make sure about this. I have just taken the initiative that was mentioned to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health a few months ago to make sure that we are producing some good examples of how this can be done at best, because we know that administrative practices at best in Norway are producing good results. When we don't get it done, it creates problems. I perceive that this is also part of the representative's business. The bigger questions beyond this, which lie on people with more severe disorders, lie among other things. in the State budget, on the activity building of Ila.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1190	I think the government council was now a little clearer, as he also says he will go into this personally to study the issue. I think it's important that someone here establishes the responsibility, and that's where I think we agree very much. That's what the message we were working on last year also said, that we shouldn't make any changes, and nobody wants any changes to it. The worst thing that can happen is if you now get a fight between health authorities and prison authorities – we have to avoid that to a large extent. I am aware that there are many aspects of this that make it difficult, among other things. security aspects and other factors that may make it difficult to transfer prisoners to ordinary municipal or county municipal services. But one thing is the short term. It is clear that, in the long term, solutions need to be found. Before 1987, we had both local and nationwide offers for somatic nursing inmates. We don't have that today. What do you think in the long term here of permanent arrangements? It is clear that although it is primarily for the Ministry of Health, the Government has overall responsibility. Is a single prison solution, nationwide or regional offer, or a combination of these?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1199	The representative and I establish a common understanding of the responsibility and principles. We also base a common understanding of what Stortinget did with the criminal health report. I have said that the short-term thing is to make sure that we don't get grey zones in administrative cooperation. In order to gain a deeper insight into the issue – in addition to what is in the activity building that comes at Ila, and in addition to the resource department that comes at Trondheim – I have taken the initiative to have my department organise a symposium as soon as possible, where we will look at what we call people who are being broken under atoning. It's just to get an overview of what we're not now catching up to. And in order to give a long-term answer to that, we have to dare to be confronted with the fact that while we want people to make up for themselves, it happens that people in this process are actually being subjected to so much trouble – whether they had it with them or they get it along the way – that we have to look at it. And the only way to do that is to do the exact same thing as the Ministry of Justice did when we had a criminal symposium, which led to a broad review of the criminal case chain. I am prepared to do the same with regard to the principle that lies in the representative Rasmussen's question to me, so I am sure that we think both in the short term and in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1209	I have probably a question to the Council of State Dørum: ‘The Ministry of Justice has, according to the Evening Post, tried the police and UDI’s request to expel two Russian citizens with serious convictions of violence, torpedo activity and drug law offences. The Minister of Justice himself has asked the police in Finnmark to keep an eye on ‘possible Russian criminals’, even when Russians only commit crimes. Can the Council of State defend this type of review of a department for which the Council of State is responsible, and why does the Department not contact the police before making the decision of the police?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1218	Police are preparing an expulsion case when there is a conviction for criminal offences or serious violations of the Foreign Affairs Act. According to standard administrative practice, the case is then forwarded to the Directorate for Foreign Affairs, which takes decisions at first instance. Any appeal against expulsion decisions is then dealt with by the Ministry of Justice as an appeal body for a single decision in the foreign field. A foreigner with a residence or work permit in Norway may be sentenced to imprisonment for a period of more than one year. Foreigners with a residence permit may be expelled by the imposition of penalties for circumstances which under Norwegian law may result in a prison sentence for three years or more, or for matters relating to infringements of the provisions of the penal code relating to drug offences. Whether expulsion is to be done depends on an individual discretionary assessment. Deportation shall not be decided if, taking into account the seriousness of the relationship and the connection of the foreigner to the State, the expulsion would be disproportionate to the foreigner himself or to the immediate family members. The discretionary assessment also takes into account signals from the Storting that criminal matters such as drugs and violence should weigh heavily. As you know, I'm very concerned about fighting crime, whether it's Norwegians or foreigners who're behind it. However, this does not mean that we cannot make an individual assessment of each expulsion case, which is a rule laid down by the Storting. I can observe that the department has only had one of the two matters to which the representative Stang refers for consideration. The second case depends on the UDI. Because of the obligation of professional secrecy, I cannot further clarify the matter. When the police obtain any new information that may be relevant, this information shall be sent to the handling body. I would also like to point out that the fact that an expulsion decision is being converted does not mean that the foreigner is, in the future, protected from the fact that a new expulsion case is being brought against him in accordance with the decision of the department for other or new criminal matters.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1229	I understand that the Council of State cannot go into the details of the matter, but it is important to consider the principles, and that is what I am trying to touch on. I understand that there is an emphasis on individual treatment here, but when you see the result, I have to say I'm getting scared. Police are working daily under pressure to follow the Ministry's initiative. Women who sell sex are expelled from Norway because they are disturbing the community. Russians who are taken in per mille control are expelled or expelled. Recently, a Russian woman was expelled from the market in Alta. She did not meet at the border of the agreed time, and was instead taken for Naziry in Tana. The police sentence is expulsion from Norway for five years. In some cases, Russians are expelled and are not allowed to return to Norway. However, torpedoing, violence and drug sales lead to residence in the country, and it is paradoxical here. This is the criminal policy practised in the country today. In relation to wrongdoing, in my opinion, there cannot be any mitigating circumstances for committing serious crimes. It seems like the Council of State has a different view than the one I'm expressing here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1241	The Council of State does not base assumptions in the press on its administrative practices. The representative may have his starting point because of what I'm saying, I mean that. He may have as his starting point that Norwegian law is being enforced against criminals, including the rights and obligations they have. He could have it as a starting point, and he could have as a starting point that it also works like this in Finnmark. That's how I control, and that's what I'm going to keep going. So the representative has to assume that that's how I act. Of course, I am fully aware of the complex crime problem in Finnmark. That's one of the reasons why we, for example, at the time when we discovered that some Russians wanted to be hired for Norwegian daily allowances, we were just in favour of deportation as a practice, and we consider that we should ensure expulsion until the fine is settled. It's for such reasons that we reach, for example, sees people abuse the institution of asylum and come back a short time after they have been rejected, that they are being handled at the border. There is a very close relationship between the police, the foreign agencies and the ministry in the fight against crime in Finland. I'll take that into account. I assume that all the principles of Norwegian law will be followed. To assume something else is to be completely wrong about the policies I stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1250	One can easily get the impression that the council denies the relationship I'm referring to, because it's been in a newspaper. That newspaper is very credible in my opinion. I have also checked out about these conditions, and what has stood there is then to say 100 pst. I've been dealing with what's right. Since the verdicts were pronounced, both have appealed against the expulsions to the Ministry of Justice. One has now received a residence permit in Norway, while the other is waiting for a similar decision. Despite very serious criminal relations, which I have also realized the Minister of Justice is concerned about, you are appreciated with your residence permit. At the same time, the police are ordered by the Ministry of Justice to expel Russian women who are nodding at the shops. The decisions of the Ministry seem not only frustrating to the police, but also to Norwegian citizens who want law and order and who are concerned with the security of the country. Is the Council of State sharing this frustration expressed by the police, and is he concerned about the bad signals given to the population elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1257	I have not made any newspaper information a question of credibility or not. I have said that the Norwegian administration must be based on a comprehensive picture, based on all information and based on Norwegian legislation. I can't believe there should be any frustration because of the way we act in Finnmark. On the contrary, it should be great joy because all the authorities are coming together to fight crime, and have done so from the very beginning. It has been done in close cooperation between police, foreign authorities and local authorities. That's what has characterized the Government's way of dealing with crime, and it's going to continue. The insight that I get along the way, I will use continuously. In the case of the two cases, the one case is settled. The second case is still pending in the UDI and has not been brought to the Ministry of Justice. Of course, the matter will be dealt with when it comes there, on the basis of the legal rules that apply, and on the basis of the principles that we otherwise stand for. Of course, if the representative thinks we have wrong legal rules, it is entirely possible to propose amendments, as the representative's party has done sometimes, but that is another matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1267	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘I look at the last child protection case in the municipality of Karlsøy and ask the Council of State what he can and will do to prevent the police from using force and power to bring out children in line with the decisions of child protection, in the eyes of other children?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1274	The Ministry has obtained a report from the police on the assistance provided on 26 October this year in the light of the decision taken by the Child Protection Service on the same day to ask the police for assistance under the Children's Protection Services Act § 6-8, cf. § 4-6, second paragraph. The reason for the request was that the child was not returned to the mother after he had been married to the father on 8 October this year. As early as 18 February of this year, Nord-Trom's right of jurisdiction had already given notice of enforcement of the previous judgment that the child should have a permanent residence with the mother until the final decision on proceedings for permanent residence. The court asked in a letter of 15 March d.o.b. the lenient, or the lenient, for the enforcement of the judgment. I have been informed that the Child Protection Service on 22 October made an attempt to pick up the child on Karlsøy, but it was not allowed to happen because of his father's threatening behavior. This is why the Child Welfare Service found it necessary to seek police assistance to implement the Decision. As stated, the decision of the Child Protection Agency was taken on 26 October alone for the benefit of the child. Neither the police nor the police officer may review the decisions of the court or child protection. But as far as implementation is concerned, the police or the police officer has a freer position. According to the police report, it was child protection that had set the time and place for the implementation of the decision, taking into account both the child and the implementation of the return. Children’s protection and civilized police came to the school swimming pool about the same time, where both the child and the child’s father were staying. In principle, the police decide when and how the aid operation is to be carried out. The police instruction states that when carrying out the mission, the police may use the necessary and proportionate measures, taking into account the nature of the mission and the otherwise, where otherwise this is in accordance with law or custom. I'm the first to admit that this is a very bad case. Whether it could have been solved in another way, I won't judge. It must be clear, however, that the police must be very restrained in providing child protection assistance for the repatriation of a child who is in school or who is otherwise involved in school activities. However, I must add that all interested parties have a responsibility for the respect of legal decisions and should act in a manner that does not lead to additional burdens for an innocent child. I also add that I have been sent a written question from the representative Jon Olav Alstad on the same matter, to which I will come back. Since the decision-making authority is initially with the child protection authorities, I would also like to address the question of an appropriate follow-up with my colleague, the Minister for Children and Family Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1294	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am glad that my question has helped the Council of State address this question with the Minister for Child and Family Affairs, who is responsible for child protection. However, as the Council of State says in its reply, the police have a responsibility to decide when and how to carry out the assistance operation. The fact that the individual situation cannot be addressed here, I understand, but there should be guidelines to ensure that the police exercise such services on behalf of other authorities and exercise them so that as much damage as possible occurs. Here it was not only the one child involved who was offended, but there were also children who behaved there and then. It must be possible to prevent children who are not involved from being subjected to such outrageous measures, and respect for the individual children involved must be shown. Will the Council of State see to it that the police take such consideration to a greater extent and not just carry out the act in such a way that it is perceived as a misuse of power?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1299	It is my general impression that the police are seeking to be as careful as possible with regard to children. It is also the case that the police and others who are asked to follow up legal decisions can often find themselves in a difficult situation when the child becomes a throw-off between adults. Then there arises a situation that I described as ‘bad’ in this case. I do not want to judge it, because I feel that I have to look into it with my colleague, the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, and will, after doing so, consider whether something further is to be done about the matter. When I am careful, it is because I have been told the matter described as I have stated in my reply to the representative, and I have to repeat what I said in my first answer, that all parties – all parties – must help to resolve it in difficult situations. It may be, if all parties do not, that the authorities will face a very difficult situation. Ultimately, the authorities do not have that much choice if there is a legal basis first. But it's clear that you work together, you avoid such situations, and it's up to everyone to do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1306	I thank again the Council of State for the answer, and I'm totally in agreement that such matters are very bad. But those who are involved in them are usually not the ones that are the background for evil. Therefore, it is even more important that we, as public authorities, be able to take care of the child and his best in that context. I quote the Barneombode, who pronounced himself to the Evening Post: ‘We have several issues in which child protection and police are allies that have resulted in power demonstrations’. The children's room requests the provision of "driving rules". By contacting the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, I hope that the Barneombode will also be involved in these matters, so that one can have driving harnesses that take care of the child's best in such matters.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1316	Without going further into the specific individual matter, which I will not be able to comment on in more detail also because there is a written question, I would say that it is precisely with a general starting point that I am acting so that the best of the child is taken care of by that, as I said in my first answer, I will discuss the matter further with my government colleague. It's true in these things that if you can gain experience that means you can do it better, you have to do it. I do not want this comment to be perceived as judging in this case, for I do not have enough detailed insight into it to express myself. But I will pursue it further, including: on the basis of the views of the representative, and because we have a duty on such issues to be extremely thorough in evaluating and seeing what we can learn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1341	These questions have been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1347	This question, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister of Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister of Church, Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1350	I will be asked the Minister of Justice, who answers the following questions on behalf of the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘Norway is one of the few countries in Europe which do not have their own craftsman training in the preservation of old buildings. In view of the cultural and national historical peculiarities often expressed by older construction practices and styles, the lack of this type of training provision seems regrettable. Specially trained professionals in the conservation of old buildings are barely available today. How does the Council of State assess the need for an education offer in this area, and what action, if any, will it take?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1359	Building protection is an important part of our common national heritage and covers many areas of work that have been handled in various ways in the training: In further training, the mural subject, the painter's subject, the gypsum subject and the carpenter's subject are subjects under the training law. Those who pass the tests will receive a certificate of virginity. In all these subjects, old techniques and traditions in the field are part of the training. Training in the timber trade, e.g. contains a theory to provide the carpenters with an understanding and respect for their building culture, where older forms of construction, style development, local construction – in short, they inherited the cultural traditions of the subject – are important. In addition, the logging trail shall have knowledge of rules for the protection of buildings and shall be able to rehabilitate older buildings according to current requirements. This ensures that our carpenters have a common foundation in the subject of their cultural heritage, which can in turn stimulate individuals to specialise and further develop in the old techniques. The students in technical colleges, the line for construction, are trained according to building protection regulations. Higher education institutions also offer courses in building protection. The high school in the South-Trundellag, for example, which has a hub function for engineering training in the construction sector, offers teachers in the secondary school a 10-weight course – a 1⁄2-year-old unit – in building protection. The highlight wants to offer this course to several target groups from autumn 2000. I have recently received a number of reports on the running of building protection, and representatives of the Ministry have attended and at the Terra Nova Conference in Lillehammer in January of this year, where various questions relating to building protection have been discussed. On the basis of these recordings, I set up a working group this summer with representatives from the Riksantikvaren, further schools – Valle Continued School and Hjerleid Further School – The Institute of Technology, Nidaros Cathedral’s restoration project and the Training Office for the Crafts. The working group’s mandate is to consider how the protection and restoration of buildings can be ensured as an addition to professional or youth letters. The setting of the group shall be delivered to the department before the end of the year. On the basis of this setting, I want to consider what to do. I hope this answer is satisfactory in relation to the question from the representative Torbjørn Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1382	I thank you for the answer I received. Of course, there are opportunities for education and learning within the State Council mentioned. But Norway is actually the only country in Europe that has no higher education in preserving old buildings. Today we have approx. 2 000 saved buildings and an estimated 1/2 million protected buildings that will sooner or later need maintenance in this country, and we need competent professionals. The reason why many of those buildings have not received the rehabilitation and perhaps the professional repair that is needed is that there has been a lack of higher education within this category. There should be no doubt in such a perspective that one in Norway should set in motion a line for higher education for the preservation of older buildings. I understand that this working group will look at it, and I therefore feel satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1397	This question has been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1403	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Transport: «In the light of general pollution and road safety, heavy roads other than densely populated areas and urban centres are being paved. It is interesting in this context that Rv 120 should continue to be passed through the Small Stream Centre, especially since the second trajectory option is made possible. Will the Council of State take concrete action to ensure that Lillestrøm is treated in the same way as other cities in view of future traffic disruption?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1412	The new Rv 159 was opened in 1998 and is bypassing the current and Lillestrøm. The planning of the traffic and street use plan for the Lillestrøm centre has been in progress for more than a decade in cooperation between the municipality of Skedsmo and the Statens vägvesen Akershus. Regulatory plans have been adopted by the municipality of Skedsmo, the last in 1999. Row 120 is part of the centre ring around the city nucleus and is part of the above plane. Rv 120 also has the function of accessing the new Lillestrom terminal. Therefore, it is not quite correct for the representative of the Storing Ursula Evje to claim in his question that Rv 120 should continue to be passed through the Lillestrøm centre. The new traffic solutions Rv 159 and Rv 120 largely eliminate the transit traffic in the Lillestrøm centre. Planning and construction of the national road network past and in Lillestrøm is normally carried out in accordance with the rules of the Law on Planning and Building. I cannot see that there is reason to claim that Lillestrom is being treated differently from other cities in terms of future urban development.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1425	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to point out that this planning – with the development of the centre – has been going on since the mid-1960s. I would like to refer to various documents, including: ‘Problem zones’ by the Directorate of Roads — and a blue book, also produced by the Directorate of Roads — are given enormous emphasis on the environment in developing such roads, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister, in this context, how he finds the concept of ‘the MPG route’ compatible with what is happening in the case of national road roundabouts in a city centre in a planning situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1430	The President assumes that it is the Minister of Transport a question and not the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1433	I'm sorry, but I might be allowed to promote...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1438	No, we'll stop there. Council of State Dag Jostein Fjærvoll will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1441	I understand that there are two elements to the question. I therefore consider it important to stress that the planning has followed the legislation of the Planning and Building Act. Skedsmo municipality and Statens vägvesen Akershus have jointly managed the planning of future street use and traffic patterns in Lillestrøm centre. The aim has been to exploit the environmental impact of traffic relief by facilitating the best possible conditions for walking and cycling and for the centre activity. Furthermore, it has been an objective to strengthen Lillestrøm as a regional trading centre. As for what is done on the MPG side in terms of planning, I would like to say the following: Environmental issues, including cultural protection, are becoming increasingly important in dealing with planning issues. Environmental competence is under way in the state road system. Different courses and training can be mentioned in this context. In addition, there is ongoing work on improving the impact assessment methodology in order to better elucidate conflicts with the environment, including cultural memories and the cultural environment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1448	To the Minister of Transport: I am glad that something is still going on in terms of culture. In 1993, a booklet from the State Road Administration on "Problems" was published, and it says: ‘The construction of new roads must not contribute to the creation of new problem zones.’ And that's exactly what's happened in this context. I must again advise the Minister for Transport to be kind and look at this planning process. I know it very well. I don't expect him to know it as well, but I'll ask him to be kind and look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1458	It is probably true that the Minister of Transport does not know all the details of the process as far back as the 1960s. I take with me the wish that the representative has now made, and would like to go further into the process itself, but it seems to me today that all the participants involved have been in the process. If it can be done better in the future, and that there might be something to learn from it, of course, I won't explain away.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1466	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Akershus County Council has introduced youth cards for bus, train and runway use. The card now costs NOK 375 per month. The annual costs of the county are estimated to be approximately Forty million. kr. The aim is to stimulate young people to travel collectively. Card users who want to use the sport of Rome have received a surcharge of 250 kroner determined by the NSB. This undermines the county policy to make more people travel collectively. Will the Council of State ensure that the NSB pursues a price policy that supports the environmental performance of the county?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1475	For the treatment of St.prp. No 90 for 1991-92 and Innst. S. No 1 for 1992-93, the Stortinget has assumed that the expansion of the Gardermoban is to be financed by the user. The investments in the NSB Gardermobanen AS, including the construction of the highway, are financed by loans and are to be covered by ticket receipts and traffic charges. As a consequence, NSB BA has to pay for the use of the Gardermoban. NSB and Stor-Oslo Local traffic, abbreviated SL, have a tariff cooperation for Akershus. The main principle of the agreement between NSB and SL is that customers of Akershus shall have tariffs as determined by SL. To the extent that differences exist between the tariffs of SL and NSB, financial compensation from the county to the NSB is determined for the deviation through annual negotiations between NSB and SL. The Youth Card introduced by Akershus County Municipality is part of this Agreement. The sport of Rome is within the tariff range of SL and the NSB and SL have discussed how the fee is to be charged to SL customers. The parties have agreed that customers in the SL tariff range will pay an addition of NOK 7 per cent. travel through the sport of Rome, while the supplement for monthly and youth cards is 250 kroner. The fee is charged as a supplement to all prices. Any change in the tariff conditions associated with the use of the Gardermoban, together with related issues of financial compensation to the NSB, should therefore be addressed through the tariff cooperation established between the NSB and the SL. In case Akershus County wants to maintain the price of the Youth Card unchanged also for the trains using the Rome sport, the county must cover the fare charge. It is natural in that case that Akershu County Municipality takes an initiative towards NSB BA.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1486	I have to say it straight out: this was a disappointing answer. During this reply, there was no political signal from the Minister of Transport on public transport and encouraging young people to travel collectively. It was a description of some of the relationships that went on at Rome, as most of us know. We know today that this is government-funded, and it's not going to pay interest on the loan, etc. I'm also familiar with NSB adding NOK 7 and NOK 250. However, there is nothing to suggest that you should have the same endorsement on the Youth Card – which Akershu County Municipality has initially spent a relatively large amount of money on, namely 40 million. kr, in order to make young people travel collectively. I would then like to ask a very concrete political question to the Minister for Transport: is it important for the Minister for Transport to encourage young people to travel collectively, to make young people a collective user, and does he believe that price policy is an instrument in this regard?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1495	The Minister for Transport fully agrees with the questioner that it is a goal to stimulate young people to travel collectively. It is important to stimulate it early in life, also because it has consequences and provides experience for recent years. That's why I understand the commitment that the query has in this context. I'm essentially dividing this engagement. That's why I opened so clearly that maybe there should be a dialogue between Stor-Oslo local traffic and NSB to look at the distribution again. There is no automatic saying that the supplement on the Youth Card will necessarily be NOK 250, it can be distributed in another way if Akershu County Council and NSB agreed on this. But then someone should take an initiative in terms of a different distribution. At the same time, the Minister of Transport has to base the Stortingen's assumption of user funding for the Gardermoban and the sports of Rome.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1500	A small additional question: does the Minister for Transport agree that today's loans can never be used to finance the Gardermoban, that there must be other solutions? It is the first question to which it is important that he answers fairly concretely. If he means it, the state has to enter somehow. Does the Minister for Transport think it is important to give a signal to the NSB that a price policy that undermines the environmental performance of the county council, at least as far as he can, does he not recommend the NSB? If the State Council of the negotiations which may now have to be settled between the county council and the NSB, with its extended arm into this system, will inform the NSB that a commitment of 66 pst is being made. on a youth card is unfair and a wrong signal to give to young people whom we want to get to travel collectively?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1507	Let me just admit, here and now, as I've done before, that with the borrowing pressures associated with the Rome and the Gardermoban, it seems to be difficult to get the Stortinge's assumption of profitable operation and user financing to ever get to the goal fully. This is to be submitted to Stortinget for treatment in the spring after we have a whole year of operation behind us. Then we're going to propose an opening balance in this context. In my view, the state must somehow enter. How, I can't sketch today, because I'd like to promote it as a total cause for the Storting. I also agree with the questioner that we should not undermine environmental efforts. We are not going to undermine the youth's willingness to use collective funds, but I am asking for an understanding that it is reasonable that the parties negotiating the agreements on where the burden should be, on which cards, which tickets osb., are given the opportunity to do this first, before I have a bastant opinion on what the solution should be.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1517	This question, from the representative of Rolf Terje Klungland to the Minister for Social Affairs, is raised by the representative of Karita Bekkedem Orheim.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1520	On behalf of the representative Rolf Terje Klungland, I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘Part-time pregnant women fall under the ‘housewife’s rule’ in social security legislation when assessing disability. This means that they get their disability determined by whether or not they can do housework, such as laundry and cooking, or not. For men in the corresponding situation, this rule does not apply. What will the Council of State do to change this clearly discriminatory system?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1529	Married or cohabiting women who have had part-time work should, according to current arrangements, be assessed both in relation to their professional life and against work in the home when applying for an invalidity pension. The reason for such a combined assessment is that these women are partly privately depended on. As a result, they are more likely to be rejected and less disadvantaged than if they had been considered to be economically active. Single women are always assessed in terms of their professional lives, regardless of whether they have been in paid employment or not. Similarly, married women with spouses with income less than two times the basic amount are always assessed against professional life, regardless of whether they have been in paid employment or not. However, if this combined assessment leads to a graduated pension and part-time work is of a certain extent, the disability rate is increased by 20 pst. The legislation is in principle gender-neutral, but can be interpreted as discrimination against women because it applies largely only to women who have part-time work. When a man who has had part-time work for some reason applies for a disability pension, it is rarely included in the assessment of whether he can do regular housework. The government therefore announces in St.meld. No 50 for 1998-99, the Equalising Communication, that we will assess the lifting of the current system where job creation in the home is involved in the underestimation. In order for part-time work to be assessed only in relation to working life, part-time work must be of such a size that it gives entitlement to sickness benefits. This change will improve the safety of married or co-operative women working part-time against loss of income in the event of permanent illness.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1538	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. There can be no doubt that it is not gender-neutral when women who are part-time workers are always asked how much homework they can do. Men never get this kind of question. When a man's disability is determined, it is assessed according to his work situation, and he is not asked whether he is able to hit a nail in the wall at home, or whether he is able to change the deck on the car. I believe that it is discriminatory as long as the man does not give any consideration to his home work situation. As the former head of social security in Kvinesdal stated: "A man who gets disabled will largely end up with 100 percent disability pension, a woman in our example will end up with 50 to 70 percent. So they can be exactly as ill, but get completely different disability pensions. So finally, I interpret the Council's response as positive and hope that she will return to Stortinget with the necessary legislative change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1550	I am pleased with the support of the representative of Mr Bekkællem Orheim in this matter. I would like to refer to page 267 of the anti-aliasing message, which includes: is as a conclusion in point 9.5.1.2: ‘Government aims at abolishing the current system in which job creation in the home is involved in the disability assessment’. And the further conclusion is consistent with what I'm notifying you here. This question raised the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party in connection with the treatment of new popular protection laws. Then the Labour Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party desired a closer assessment. So now the situation is that the matter is being handled in Stortinget in connection with the Equalization Notice. As soon as we get a formal signal, I'll promise that I'll follow up with a bill change proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1562	I would like to repeat that the Council of State's answer was very positive, but I would like to ask the Council of State an additional question: does she not agree with me that if a woman is married, cohabiting or lonely, this should not have any meaning in determining the default, so that this also goes into the amendment of the law?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1567	Let me add to the last question just stress that it's exactly equal treatment I want. That's why I have done this in the anti-aliasing message. I am concerned that when considering a disability pension, there should be equal treatment of an application between women and in the relationship between women and men. Now it's the last thing here that has initiated a certain practice, and that it's important to change. The Workers' Party and the Centre's Parties have now stated in writing that they will cooperate here on the follow-up to the Smoothing Message. At this point, at least the conclusion here would be clear.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1576	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘Before the new alcohol law was introduced, the municipalities set the charge for the sale and donation of alcoholic beverages without being at the central minimum rate imposed. In the districts, there are many small cafés and shops with marginal profits. These often feel compelled to cancel their appropriations after the levy has been raised, and are offered at a lower rate than those which are more centrally located. Will the Council of State do anything to avoid such adverse effects of the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1585	The size changed the alcohol laws in 1997. When the fee applies, the rules have been changed so that the fee represents a fixed crown amount per. translated litres of alcohol. This is followed by an increase in the amount of the fee as turnover takes place. The principals who have the largest turnover will pay the highest fee. Checks if the size of the fee is specified in the regulations. The fee shall cover costs relating to the management by the municipality of requests for permission to sell or to donate alcoholic beverages and, in addition, control costs. The minimum fee of NOK 1000 for halls and NOK 3000 for donations payable independently of turnover is fixed to cover these costs. The minimum fee was first proposed for 500 kroner for sale and 1000 kroner for donation. During the regulatory hearing, many municipalities thought that the minimum fee was too low to cover the cost of privilege management and control. Therefore, the minimum fee was fixed at NOK 1000 for the hall and NOK 3000 for the donation. I look at the evaluation of the legislative changes that were made, as important, and have given this task to the State Institute for Alcohol and Drug Research, SIFA, with a deadline to the end of next year. In this way, SIFA will, among other things, please refer to the minimum fee. If it turns out that the conversion leads to consequences that are not inconvenient for specific groups, I will consider changing the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1594	I thank you for your answer. I have received the opposite signal regarding the minimum rate that is now thought to be too high. As an alcohol policy instrument, this does not matter in my opinion, but for small businesses it is very important that they have the widest possible range of services. By constantly reducing the range of services in the districts, we are getting a reduction in the customer base and subsequent closures. In connection with that law, a few more courses and subsequent exams were also required to sell and give alcohol. This also entails new costs that seem to be the most burdensome where profits are already small. Could it not have been possible to assess changes here as well, so that small companies selling some bottles of beer can follow other courses and exams than large companies that donate more alcoholic beverages?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1601	When it comes to the tests that are required for those who donate alcohol, it is a test that has actually been carried out on the initiative of the industry itself. The desired self to clean up in relation to certain aspects of the industry. Or maybe it's a question that could have been the subject of an own main question in the Question Time, and that has also been raised earlier by big business representatives. For my part, I don't have plans to change it. There is a test that has recently been introduced. When it comes to fees, I want to come back with an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1608	I thank you for your answer. It is regrettable that this cannot be re-assessed, because ever new impositions with subsequent increased costs will help to bring down more and more companies in pig-grown strokes, which in the next round leads to deportation. As we know, the manning situation is also not good in such small enterprises, and when everyone has to go through this course, it will incur unreasonable costs. Does not the Council of State feel that it is important that the municipality, which sees the immediate effects of such impositions coming, could have gained more autonomy here?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1615	Let me go back to the allegations here, both about forcing appropriations to be cancelled and about a poorer offer because of costs, and practical problems related to it. So we had a hearing before this regulation was implemented, and it was the municipalities themselves who gave advice in relation to how the fee was to be set. I have understood that the Labour Party and the Centre Party are some of the things that we need to have a restrictive alcohol policy, and that, in sum, we also have rules that are fairly similar from the municipality to the municipality. But when it comes to the bets that the questioner raised here, I'm going to come back with an evaluation of them, because I've got the same signals from several small companies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1625	This question, from the representative of Rolf Terje Klungland to the Minister for Health, is raised by the representative of Torny Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1628	On behalf of the representative Rolf Terje Klungland, I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Commune-Norway is struggling with a lack of nurse today. In the past, assistants with medical courses were allowed to distribute medications from dosettes. The county doctor in West Agder has reinforced this after the assistants have taken the care worker's profession. Once they have become skilled workers, they are no longer allowed to handle these rates. Does the Council of State consider this to be a reasonable use of the care workers in the municipalities, and what will the Council of State do to resolve this ‘prophesy struggle’?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1637	I am familiar with studies that show that the misuse of medicinal products is a problem both in healthcare institutions and in primary health care. In primary health services, there is often a high shortage of personnel with the necessary skills, and this in turn leads to extensive delegation of tasks to personnel with limited knowledge of medicines. I have been informed that the State Health Authority is constantly receiving questions from health care and county doctors on how to ensure the quality of this type of delegation, on how to make best use of resources in a situation of stress and on what kind of training must be used before delegating with a safe quality. Section 17 of the Medical Act provides that a doctor has the right to use other health professionals as a helper, if the doctor assesses it properly according to his qualifications, the nature of the tasks involved, the instructions given and the controls carried out, etc. The term ‘health professionals’ has been used in the medical law, but it is explicitly stated in the preparatory work of the law that a doctor can also use other than authorised health professionals as assistants, since the qualifications and training of the assistant are important here for the proper functioning of the medical business. A doctor is thus free to choose to delegate tasks related to the management of medicinal products to a carer. Caring is classified as an authorised health professional in the recently adopted law on health professionals. It follows from the Local Health Service Regulation of 18 November 1978 that medicinal product management is a task to be carried out only exceptionally by non-publicly authorised nurse/protector. However, the regulation cannot restrict the general delegation of power granted to the physician under the medical law. It is clarified that the distribution of medicinal products also involves observation of efficacy/adverse reaction and any complications, and that this is a task which requires the necessary professional competence. In other words, the prerequisite for the distribution of medicinal products to help caregivers, caregivers or care assistants is that those who assist a doctor have received the necessary training to perform the tasks properly. However, a continuous course in the handling of medicinal products does not automatically confer the right to participate in medicinal products management. In the community health service, there is a wide variation in the tasks a doctor’s assistant receives. It is only nurses and caregivers who, with a background in education, can be used for the management of medicinal products without individual training and personal delegation. This is the result of paragraph 8 of Section 8 of the abovementioned regulation. 4-6. It follows from the requirement that the local health service of other personnel should establish written policies and provide training and instruction to those to distribute medicinal products. This shall be adapted to their qualifications and tasks. Caregivers may thus, following appropriate training, be given personal powers to distribute medicinal products. The Ministry has provided funding for the launch of a project with a view to drawing up an action plan on ‘Safer drug use, with a specific focus on primary health care’. The action plan aims at increasing safety, achieving better optimal use of medicinal products, testing new measures and evaluating them in terms of medical and health consequences. The action plan will also be seen in a close context with adopted initiatives in the care of the elderly and in the psychiatry, the permanent reform and the action plan for health and social workers. I am concerned that the handling of medicinal products is being carried out in a proper manner. Both carers and caregivers, as a doctor’s assistant, may receive the necessary training to carry out these tasks. Individual municipalities are the closest to providing such training.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1661	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm partly satisfied with it, but not quite. I still think that there is a bit left until we can benefit from the health professionals that we have. With the huge lack of health professionals that we have, I think it must be possible to get flexible solutions in safe assurance that sick people will receive the medicine they are going to have. I think it's a little weird that there's legislation that kind of works just on paper. We know that the City Council can delegate around. We also know that both carers and assistants have to do this job, because at the different times there are not enough nurses to do it. I think it must be right to use the nurses for the nurse to do, and that they must not run around with pills in cans. Does the Council of State think that it is the proper use of the nurses that they should do this, in addition to the many other tasks they have? I look forward to having the action plan that the Council of State said, so that we can achieve a whole in this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1670	I agree with the representative Pedersen that we need to benefit from the health professionals we have, in the most flexible way possible. It is such that both carers and assistants can distribute medicines when they have the necessary knowledge and competence to do so, and when it is done under the delegated responsibility of the doctor. There is a system that I believe allows for flexibility on the one hand, but at the same time takes into account what is even more fundamental than flexibility, namely the soundness of service. We know that mismedication is a problem in the Norwegian healthcare system, and we do not solve it in a more delicate way with the legislation we have. In my view, we will solve this by increasing our competence and by making use of the possibilities provided by the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1677	I agree with the Council of State that it is very important that we acquire competence. And in the case of medications, we have the system that goes on the drug distribution course. Can it be expanded so that more people get this course? Can the local doctor provide even greater flexibility with regard to the use of existing staff? I know it's very important that it's under control, it's a very important area of responsibility. However, when it comes to putting in dosage sets, there are two -- there should be a nurse and an inspector -- that add to these dosage sets, and then it should be done that there is a fault in the distribution. So I want to ask the Council of State, is it possible that more people can get this course?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1684	As I said in my first answer, it is entirely possible for the municipality to provide such training to groups of health professionals other than those who have a right to administer medicine based on their education, and who then have to do so by the doctor's delegated authority. There's no constraint in that sense. But I want to highlight a certain distance to the opinion that I felt on the part of the representative Pedersen, that this administration of medicine is a simple task that can be easily taken on. It's an opinion I can't share. In my opinion, this is a central task we're talking about here, for which the nurses are specially trained. I think we're all well served to balance the consideration of simplicity with regard to soundness of mind. And then it's the properness that's supposed to be supreme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1694	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Leading cancer experts say to the Evening Post on 28 October 1999 that not all serious cancers in Norway are receiving optimal treatment because hospitals do not have enough resources to use the best and most effective drugs in their cancer treatment. What will the Council of State do with this serious problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1703	Let me first say that it is important that cancer is ensured the best treatment our hospitals can provide. That's why we're now taking an uplift for this patient group through national cancer plans and equipment investments in Norwegian hospitals. We also see results from several cancer patients being treated in our hospitals. The situation in Norwegian hospitals is not such that cancer is generally prevented from receiving treatment with new drugs because the reimbursements per treated patient are based on more reasonable medications. Hospitals are partly financed by framework grants from the county, partly from reimbursements per treated patient and partly from earmarked grants. The funding system based on reimbursement per treated patient — the input-driven funding — reimburses treatment for cancer patients based on an average cost per treatment. Such an average DRG reimbursement for the patient group means that some treatments are overfinanced, while others are underfunded. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is responsible for continuously monitoring cost developments and reimbursements to different patient groups, including cancer patients. Drug cancer treatment was identified as an area where there is a need for improved registration and funding before the introduction of intervention-driven funding in 1997. The evidence on what different forms of treatment involved was not good enough, and this was also related to the cost of drug use. This was due, inter alia, to: that patient weights and treatment forms differ in the regional hospitals and in the other hospitals treating cancer patients. A working group was set up in the spring of 1997 with representatives from the professional community to find a solution to the challenge of introducing effort-driven funding on 1 July 1997. The working group promoted a solution where registration and funding were based on treatment courses. The proposal for registration practices was consulted and tested in 1997 and 1998 at all regional and state hospitals. However, experience in this area is shared and the Ministry has not found it appropriate to implement this solution for all hospitals in the country. The Ministry therefore took the initiative in the autumn of 1998 for a new working party to propose an adjusted solution in April this year, but this solution does not meet the minimum requirements that must be met in order to be a sound financing system. The Ministry is therefore now aiming to obtain the earliest possible solution in the year 2000 where reimbursement for the day-to-day treatment of cancer patients is more differentiated than at present. This will result in a higher refund for highly expensive drug treatment, while some treatments will receive lower reimbursement. The professional communities are briefed that during the autumn they will be invited to a meeting to assess whether this is a solution that can be put into use as early as in 2000. That's my goal. In parallel with finding a solution for the next year, improving the registration of cancer patients in the longer term. The objective is an additional price differentiation than that which can be implemented as early as next year. It is important that such a solution fits every hospital in the country, which has so far been very difficult to obtain with the documentation we have on what kind of treatment is being given. Such work must take place in close cooperation with the Norwegian professional communities. All Nordic countries are now using registration based on the DRG system. In the case of cancer patients too, important cooperation is in progress in order to arrive at a medically-professionally meaningful registration and classification of patient treatment. This will have to be the basis for reimbursements per treated patient.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1719	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer and am pleased to record that the matter is being dealt with in the department. I hope it will not take so long that some patients are simply late for the new arrangement. There has been a cross-political agreement in this house on the cancer plan of SEK 2.1 billion that was adopted at Stortinget. When we can read in the evening post what a superior in a regional hospital says, you can get scared. It says: ‘The result may be that some patients die prematurely, while others are offered more old-fashioned treatment, which is less effective and results in more side effects and more discomfort.’ This concerned the price and cost issue. As late as spring 1998, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed that hospitals be given the right to prescribe cancer medicine on blue prescription, for example. My question is, has the Minister of Health considered this proposal from the three parties mentioned?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1733	I am familiar with the minority proposal that the representative Alvheim now refers to when dealing with the Stortingen National Cancer Plan. Now it is the case that the purchase of medicines for hospital use as a whole is charged to the hospital budget without any funding from the public interest. I find it little relevant to distinguish medications into some treatments from this general system. If the form of treatment or medication changes so that this leads to radical changes in the level of costs, I believe the solution must be what we are now working on, namely to adjust the reimbursements received by the hospital from the state. And there is, as mentioned, such a solution we are now working on in close cooperation with the professional environments to which the representative Alvheim referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1738	I thank the Minister of Health again for the answer. We need to be aware that the medical treatment we are talking about here in the field of cancer is not experimental treatment, but a well documented and recognised treatment, not only in our own country, but throughout the world. It is therefore important that Norwegian patients can also participate in this treatment scheme. I am pleased that the emphasis is now placed on syncing this with the DRG system, and I think it was a very interesting idea on the part of the Minister of Health. I hope that this will succeed, and that there will also be such a rapid development in this area that new medicines and medications can come in months, and then Norwegian patients must also be given priority in this respect in relation to foreign patients.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1748	This question, from the representative Annelise Höegh to the Minister for Health, will be raised by the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1751	On behalf of Annelise Höegh, I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The lack of money in hospitals prevents serious cancer from being treated with new medicines that are better but also more expensive. The Social Committee already asked the Government in 1995 to find an acceptable reimbursement scheme for the highly expensive cellular drugs, and the Right, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left proposed in the spring of 1998 to give hospitals the right to prescribe medical cancer treatment on blue prescription. When will the Council of State present a proposal for a solution?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1760	I refer to my reply to Mr Alvheim on the financing of expensive cancer drugs. Reimbursement per year treated cancer patient is based on the average cost per person. treatment. This, like for other patient groups, means that some treatments are being overfinanced, while others are being underfunded. Drug cancer treatment was identified as an area where there is a need for improved registration and funding before the introduction of intervention-driven funding in 1997. Thus, in the spring of 1997, a working group of representatives from the professional community was set up to find a solution to the challenge of introducing effort-driven funding on 1 July 1997. The working group promoted a solution where registration and funding were based on treatment courses. The proposal for registration practices was consulted and tested at all regional and state hospitals in 1997 and 1998. However, experience in this area is shared and the Ministry has not found it appropriate to implement this solution to apply to all hospitals in the country. That is why, in the autumn of 1998, we took the initiative of a new working group to promote a proposal for a revised solution in spring 1999. However, this solution does not meet the minimum requirements that must be met in order to be a sound financial instrument. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is now working with the aim of obtaining, as early as possible in 2000, a solution where reimbursement for the day-to-day treatment of cancer patients is more differentiated than at present. Professional environments will participate in this cooperation. The Ministry has also initiated a work which, in the longer term, will lead to better medical registration and further price differentiation of reimbursements per year. treated patients. The representative then refers Sjøli to a minority proposal on the use of the bladder prescription system in the treatment of the National Cancer Plan by the Storting. I refer to what I said in my additional reply to the representative Alvheim about this. In my opinion, it would be difficult to separate individual treatments from the general principle that the purchase of medicines in their entirety would be charged to the hospital budget and not to the public interest. If the form of treatment or medication is changed to lead to radical changes in the level of costs, the solution must be to adjust the reimbursement arrangements for hospitals. That's for what we're now working on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1771	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. I am pleased that in his reply to the representative, Mr Alvheim, he made it clear that cancer patients should receive the best treatment. I am also pleased that the Department is working closely on these issues, and that next year it will be a solution. But I have to say that I think this takes a long time. It worries me. This prevents serious cancer from receiving curative and life - prolonging treatment with new active drugs. That is why the cancer experts are also calling for an alarm. There's no news either. Since 1995, the Stortinget has called for an acceptable reimbursement scheme for expensive cellular drugs. I don't think this is so difficult if you want to, and realize that it costs money. It is unworthy and unacceptable for cancer patients not to receive the best treatment. I would like to ask the Minister of Health if he will consider making this prescription scheme work until a solution is found with regard to the reimbursement scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1789	Let me stress that it should not be, and that it is not, that cancer is generally prevented from being treated with new medicines because the reimbursement per person. In general, treated patients are based on more reasonable medications. It is the hospitals that, through their total funding, are responsible for providing a good and proper treatment to the individual patient. You can't ignore that. Nor is it true that there has been a willingness to find a better solution. Why should we have initiated all this work that we have now described? But we've actually had problems finding a good solution. We now believe that we can find a good solution within the DRG system, and then I see in the months that are left until this is in place, no reason to withdraw the blue recipe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1799	«Information has been provided that the Institute of Energy Technology at Kjeller has for a number of years emitted radioactive waste to Sogna and Nitelva. The population in the area is anxious for the damage they may have suffered. Will the Council of State take the initiative to examine the situation in order to help the population in the area feel safe in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1806	Today, the Institute of Energy Technology, IFE, is authorised to release limited amounts of radioactive substances into the environment in connection with its activities at Kjeller. The authorisation was granted in December 1992 and expired on 31 December of this year. The permit limits the maximum rates permitted by the emissions. The background to the authorisation is an application from IFE where, inter alia: have been reported on the radiation doses due to emissions to the environment. An integral part of the permit is a surveillance programme to report to the State Radiation Protection Agency. One of the conditions is also that the State radiation protection system is to be informed in the event of changes in the assumptions for the calculation of radiation doses. The straw supplier expects first to receive a new application for an emission permit from IFE. The straw supplier aims at an open examination of the application, including, inter alia: interested parties will be consulted. The IFE own monitoring reports report annual measurement results of radioactive substances in the environment. In addition, the November 1997 report reported data from a more detailed study of pollution in deeper layers of sediment near Nitelva. This report shows that high concentrations of plutonium have been measured in the sediments below the river bed. On 7 October 1999, the straw liver participated in the IFE sampling of sediment in Nitelva. The straw delivery was then informed for the first time that the contaminated sediments are dry parts of the year. The straw supplier has stated that the levels of pollution reported are of a magnitude that suggests that the contaminated sediments should not remain where they are now located. Against this background, 15 October 1999 the State's Radiation Protection Agency asked IFE to: to draw up a report containing all available information as regards activity concentrations and the prevalence of the contaminated area to prepare a proposal for measures to eliminate the pollution. The proposal shall also assess possible negative environmental effects in the short term as well as possible additional radiation doses for personnel implementing the work. The deadline for this report is 1 February 2000. In addition, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, in its letter of 28 October 1999, asked the Straw liver to provide a detailed account of the management of radioactive emissions in Norway from the founding of the Institute of Nuclear Energy in 1948 until now. In particular, an explanation of how the scheme was in the 1950s and 1960s has been requested. The Ministry has also requested a full overview of all previous and current emissions of liquid radioactive waste from IFE to Nitelva and its surroundings. Furthermore, the straw liver has been asked to assess whether the sediment cover has caused or poses a health hazard to the population in the area and what measures the straw liver may consider should be taken. The straw supplier shall also assess whether there is a breach of the IFE’s current emissions permit. In the light of the presentation of the Radiation Protection System, the Ministry will assess whether specific measures are to be taken. I have set a deadline for the presentation from Straw liver to 10 November 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1830	I thank the Council of State for a positive response and for having started a process to clarify what has happened and how the situation is. In the past, it has been, and it is well the case today, that the IFE itself has carried out the controls required by the concession and reported to the State's radiation protection system. Now when we look at the situation today, that for example. The straw supplier has stated that the levels of pollution reported are of a magnitude that suggests that the contaminated sediments should not remain where they are now located, it may not be so strange that the population does not have full confidence in the activities and control of the establishment as it is today. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that one of the controls now being carried out could also include people from the local environment and from the critical organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1839	When I referred to the Radiation Protection Assessment at the point where Anneliese Dørum addresses its additional questions, it was related to the sampling that the Straw Liver participated in IFE on 7 October 1999 and that relates to the sediments that are around. One and a half feet below the riverbed. On the basis of the findings, IFE has requested a recovery plan with a deadline of 1 February 2000. Now we also have a place to store this kind of material. So I'm counting on it to be cleaned up. I'm generally a fan of openness around all of these relationships. It is important for the people's confidence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1846	I thank the Council of State for the answer. IFE is likely to apply for a new emissions permit, and my next question to the Council of State is whether it will enter in order for zero emissions to be required if they are to obtain such an emission permit. I hope that the Council of State will be able to respond with confirmation. Then it's about the people who've been in the area during growth. The Health Manager of the municipality of Skedsmo estimates to carry out a survey of people who were children at Kjeller in the 1950s, and to find possible damage from radioactive emissions from IFE. But a research project is required to be able to do this, and it will not be a municipal power alone. Will the Council of State contribute to the launching of a research project that will assess any damage to these people?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1855	With regard to the examination of the application for a new emission permit from next year, it is the State Radiation Protection Agency which is to process and adopt it. I have stated in the spontaneous question hour earlier today that it, not least because IFE itself says that it should be a goal to get down to zero, would be natural for the straw liver to assess such a requirement in that regard. But I cannot start the procedure here, it must go its way through the competent authorities. Regarding the issue of the consequences of possible activity in the 1950s, I have just asked, because I was not satisfied with the way IFE answered – or did not respond – those questions, a full explanation from the State Radiation Protection Control Agency. When that statement is available, I will consider the question now raised by the representative of Dørum related to the health study.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1867	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘From many counties messages suggest a crisis in public dental services. In Sogn and Fjordane, for example, 20 pst. of the dental positions were absent. The retirement age is approaching for those who are still enduring in the positions. Do the Councils have thoughts and measures to maintain a quality service in the public dental sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1876	It is important to ensure a public dental service that promotes high quality. The Ministry follows developments in the dental market closely, and considers it necessary to take several types of measures to improve dental cover in the public sector. Measures are needed to increase access and to contribute to a geographically better distribution of dental practitioners to public dental services. The 1999 State budget therefore allocated 3.8 million. kr for human resources measures and the proposed increase in the budget proposal for 2000. The government’s long-term strategy to ensure stability in dental care is to increase access to dentists. An investigation into dental training in Tromsø has been sent to the hearing, with a deadline of 15 November. After summing up the answers to the hearing, I will discuss further treatment with the Minister of Church, Education and Research and, if appropriate, return to Stortinget in an appropriate way. In the short term, it is necessary to recruit dental practitioners from abroad. The Ministry, in cooperation with the labour market authorities, has launched a project for the recruitment of German dental practitioners undergoing a three-month Norwegian language course with passed pre-employment examination. Sogn and Fjordane County Council attended a recruitment meeting in Cologne in October 1999 with positive results. Another measure by the Ministry to increase access to Norwegian-authorised dental practitioners is the implementation of a simplified training scheme for dental practitioners from outside the EEA territory. In cooperation with the universities of Bergen and Oslo, the foreign dentists complete one year of additional training. Such training was previously only possible over a period of three years. In order to contribute to a better geographical distribution of dental practitioners to the public dentistry, the Ministry of the State Budget for 2000 has proposed increased funding for incentives. The Ministry, in cooperation with the Norwegian Dental Association and the Municipalities’ Central Association, has identified the possibility of setting up a national temporary employment scheme. Geographical imbalance and the imbalance between the public and private sectors have identified the need for a temporary agency system aimed at exploiting free capacity and increasing market flexibility. The aim is to provide assistance to the county councils that have had a high level of vacations, and to provide an opportunity to plan for long-term, stable solutions. It is intended that the temporary workers' scheme will enter into force from the end of the year. A new study loan write-down scheme has also been proposed for newly-trained dental practitioners who choose to work in those parts of the country that are hardest hit by the dental deficiency. Incentive grants that have been earmarked for the three Nordic counties in 1999 will also be assessed in relation to other counties for 2000. As you know, the terms and conditions of employment are a matter for negotiation between the employers’ and employees’ organisations. The central association of municipalities and the Norwegian Dental Association are also concerned with the difficult public sector situation. The new specific agreement between the parties provides for a new type of commission investigation and a separate stability supplement to stimulate new recruitment and greater stability in the public sector in the districts. State action does not aim to replace but to complement employers’ recruitment and stabilisation efforts. As this answer shows, there is a great deal going on, partly in the direction of the Ministry and partly in the direction of the parties, and I believe that active efforts, cooperation and dialogue will help ensure that the Public Dental Service in District Norway remains an interesting and attractive place to work for future dentists.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1893	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which in many ways was rich in action. We agree that quality depends on good search for and conduct of the study. Proper university capacity will be affected in the response. The balance between private and public dentistry, which was also mentioned, is also very important. Wages and salaries are an important factor here. Attractiveness is, of course, a composite picture, but pay is very important. The level of income in private dental practice, with which this service is to compete, has recently been highlighted in a joint analysis based on both odontological competence and high-school commercial competence. The conclusion shows the need for better pay for public staff dental practitioners. This can be complemented by increased opportunities for input-based remuneration and good opportunities for renting offices to private practices. Do the Council of State fully understand these conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1902	At these times, many groups are trying to get the Minister of Health to make binding statements on future salary settlements. It's not the Minister of Health's job, and that's why I'm not going to do it about this important group. However, I note that the Norwegian Dental Association and the Municipal Councils’ Central Association have already addressed this in the light of the lack of recruitment and coverage in the public dental service. I refer to the measures already agreed between the parties, which I take as an expression that these parties are concerned with the issue that Mr Hoddevik is raising here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1907	I also thank you for this answer. I had not expected a final answer to the question, but the challenges we have to get through. I would like to touch on a small additional theme that might not fit with the vicarb handle that was mentioned. It is a fact that in District Norway there are poorly paid watch systems; there are moral guards who intervene in the leisure time of the respective workers, without any particular appreciation. Does the Minister of Health also have any view that this could be an element that is significant for the recruitment of jobs in District Norway, also in competition with private practice, as it is often in central areas?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1914	In general, I believe that measures that can help make it easier and more attractive to be a dentist in the districts are important to improve recruitment and stability – not least the last. But it is still the case that pay and working conditions are the responsibility of the parties. It's a responsibility I have the impression that the parties are taking, and I don't think it would be particularly helpful if I were to issue statements in any area that concerns tariff policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1922	This question, from the representative of Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1925	I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs, on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, the following questions: ‘A person in Hedmark was fined in the harvest for taking in two maternal deer calves so that they would not die, with the intention of letting them back into the wild when they were able to manage themselves. Does the council share the man's view, or will she still have a strict law that may not preserve such events for the good of the animal?"
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1934	I assume that the matter to which the representative of Bredvold is aiming is a case in which a person was assigned a speech because he held two detainees in captivity. The proposal was not adopted, and the case went to the General Court, where he was released on 21 October of this year. The judgment is not yet enforceable. The Ministry of the Environment also receives a complaint from the same person concerning the refusal to have the two deer in captivity. Therefore, I do not want to comment on the specific matter, but I can explain in general what rules apply in relation to handling the damaged or lost game. The disposal of sick or injured game is governed by two laws — the law of the wild and the law of the protection of animals. The Animal Protection Act regulates the obligations and rights of individuals who have access to damaged or helpless animals. The Game Act provides for no one to keep wild in captivity. This provision does not preclude a person authorised by the Animal Protection Act, and without a specific authorisation, from taking care of game in order to assist animals in an acute phase. Detailed rules have been laid down for short-term handling of game for rehabilitation in a separate regulation. Here it is stated that short-term care of sick or injured game for rehabilitation is permitted ‘if the game can be returned to its natural environment and that the care is carried out in consultation with a veterinarian. Notification of such care shall be given without delay to the State's animal health surveillance by the district veterinarian and the municipality.» I believe that today's legislation provides a good basis for helping sick or injured animals, while taking into account that game has its natural condition in the wild and can easily suffer in captivity.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1947	I thank the Council of State for the answer, where the Council of State does not want to comment on a specific matter. This is not my wish on the question either, but I wanted to hear how the Council of State would generally deal with such matters in the future. Can the Council of State imagine working for a gradual decoration of the legislation, or at least working for a more liberal interpretation of existing legislation, so that wild animals with no way out than death can be kept for a period of time by people with good intentions and objectives, without being reported for such conditions? It is precisely in the specific case that the legislation can work too smoothly and square when it comes to using common sense.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1954	I think that in my previous answer I also did well for the evaluations that are currently in the law, the good basis that has been laid for helping sick or injured animals, even the duties of individuals who get hurt or helpless animals, under animal protection law, while at the same time taking care that wild animals have their natural support in nature and can easily come to suffer in captivity. I understand that the representative Bredvold wants a softening in relation to what I was doing here, and I can take his point of view back to the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1959	I don't disagree that wild animals that are fresh have the best in nature. This is about sick animals that, without human help, may have nothing but death to wait for. In its first answer, the Council of State said that such animals that are being taken care of could easily suffer in captivity. I would like the Council of State to elaborate on the subject of ‘incarceration’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1966	It falls more naturally to me because of the responsibility I have, to express myself about the care and care of people who need follow-up. When it comes to this term ‘to suffer in captivity’, I would also like to take it with me for a possible follow-up by the Minister for the Environment. Let it be quite clear that today we have, both in relation to animal protection laws and to the rules of the law of the wild, which are also to take care of damaged animals. And then there's a question about the time that such a situation should take up, and on what basis. It's done in the order from which I've already referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1978	This question, addressed to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1981	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘In the preparation of different nature reserve protection plans and plans in line with the revised 1993 Land Plan for Natural Parks, the plans operate with preliminary external planning limits, which are usually not made public. Does the Council of State consider that this way of proceeding is in line with the Storting's assumptions?»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1990	Initially, I would like to make it clear that the proceedings initiated by the environmental protection authorities since 1993, when the notification of a new country plan for national parks and other major protected areas was dealt with by the Stortinget, have followed the guidelines laid down by Section 18 of the Nature Conservation Act and its circulars. As part of the proceedings, the Ministry asked the counties, in a letter dated 22 December 1992, to propose progress plans for the examination of the individual case. On this basis, in 1993 the Directorate for Nature Management sent out a letter to all the counties asking for preliminary work limits to be drawn up for the country's protection proposals. In an incubation, this letter was exempted from public disclosure, as the Ministry of the Environment, in a letter to the Norwegian Fish Breeding Association in May of this year, has pointed out. The Minister for the Environment has explained the matter in letters of 3 May, 20 May and 15 June of this year to the Presidency of the United Kingdom on the basis of questions 260, 279 and 325 from the representative of Bastesen. On the other hand, it is not correct, as the representative Bastisen claims, that the provisional external planning limits are usually not published. It is precisely the intention of the borders that they should be known to all parties, so that other sectoral interests do not take action in the areas to the detriment of the protection interests during the planning period. Let me stress that the Government is very concerned that the protection plan work is to be covered by transparent, democratic processes that ensure the widest possible local involvement, including with regard to the establishment of provisional work limits. This should be made even more visible in the new circular on the rules of procedure under the Nature Conservation Act.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e1999	When the revised protection plan was adopted in 1993, a protection of 10-12 p.a., approx. 900,000 deches. Today, it's worth 3.5 million. dekar. We have a development that's running smoothly, and it's only a matter of time when the department has to come to Stortinget and ask for even more extended powers. By comparison, we have cultivated landscapes in this country at 4 pst. So we're on wild roads. With regard to this with external planning boundaries, I can trust the Council of State that I had to make three enquiries to the County Environmental Protection Department in Bodø to get the external planning boundaries, which were drawn with thousands, and which are expanded as necessary and after the free imagination of the consultants.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e2006	In my previous answer, I mentioned a circular that the Ministry of the Environment is currently working on, which relates to the rules of procedure under the law on nature protection, and which is intended to take care of even better than today's open and democratic processes that ensure broadest possible local involvement. This circular will be completed in good time before Christmas. This will strengthen the participation of municipalities and county councils in the planning process, as well as the right of landowners and other legal practitioners to participate in the planning process.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e2011	As I explained instead, we have had a development there approx. 3.5 million. Dekar is already at peace. In addition, the preliminary outer plane boundaries they're sitting and drawing with a thousand. I have to say again: I strongly doubt that this is in line with Storting's assumptions when the revised Land Plan for Natural Parks was adopted in 1993, where the prerequisite was to protect 10-12 pst. of the country and approx. Ninety thousand decks. What are we talking about here? It's almost a tidal process in relation to Storting's assumptions, and I don't think the Stortinge put it into the plans. Then the question is, is this according to the guidelines?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e2018	I understand that the representative Bastesen is also busy with the scope of protection, and not only, as he has mentioned in his question, the way in which the case is handled, i.e. whether the external planning limits are currently publicly known. I have answered the question, I have done well for the Minister for the Environment his commitment to securing further openness and democratic processes in the context of the plan. I appreciate the fact that the representative Bastesen, like the government, is concerned with openness and democracy. I'll take his point of view back.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e2023	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished workmanship.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-03.ana.ud2156e2032	There is no record available.
