ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e29	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of the members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e36	The Workers' Party may join the Government's negotiating arrangements before the new round of the World Trade Organisation. I would also like to refer to the debate we had in the United Kingdom on 17 June this year, and note that the areas discussed there are included in the Minister of Foreign Affairs' last statement, which highlights the importance of value creation in Norwegian business and the importance of ensuring the situation of developing countries and further developing the trading system in a way that takes into account qualitative aspects, such as the environment, labour protection and cultural diversity. The Labour Party agrees with these main objectives. Globalisation of the economy creates a need for new driving rules between countries and regions, in order to achieve a level playing field. It is particularly important to prevent firms from establishing themselves in some places because of low cost and poor working conditions. In other words, we must ensure fair trade and not just free trade. Therefore, world trade must not favour countries that gain competitive advantage in breach of professional and social rights or in exploiting resources and the environment. But we need more inter-country contact. History has shown us that isolation is the way to poverty. The new global economy is strengthened by technological developments. Knowledge, together with trade and the functioning of the public sector, is therefore the way to economic progress. Technologically, globalisation also means that goods and services can be produced anywhere, with resources from anywhere, located anywhere, to a quality we find anywhere, to be sold anywhere. The starting point of the Labour Party is that globalised world trade must be based on a regulation that ensures a common set of international driving rules. International obligating agreements are better than international anarchy. We also prefer multilateral trade agreements rather than bilateral ones, which have often been agreements between former colonial powers and their colonies. These have, with respect, hardly been particularly beneficial for neither qualitative aspects nor for ensuring the environment and natural resources of developing countries. We support the Government's approach to a broad and comprehensive round of negotiations. When proposals have been made by Norway in the fields of agriculture, services, access to the market for industrial products, including fish and fish products, fishing subsidies, the environment, competition and the financing of technical assistance to developing countries, we can agree to that. I have some profound comments on some points: We need an overall national strategy to safeguard Norwegian interests in Norwegian exports, including: of fishery products, which are currently stopped by regional cooperation structures in several parts of the world. As far as the EU is concerned, we know that the EEA Agreement does not guarantee equal rights for the Norwegian fishing industry. This may be changed by the WTO. Norwegian fishing industry is an important factor in rural policy and in ensuring living communities.We need a balance between offensive and defensive requirements. Therefore, the multifunctional role of agriculture needs to be emphasised, i.e.: that agriculture, in addition to food production, shall also contribute to ensuring housing, cultural landscapes and rural policies. This is in line with the qualitative requirements. It requires a national space for action in the formulation of agricultural policy. At the same time, Article 20 of the World Trade Organisation's Agreement on Agriculture is clearly committed to a long-term objective of gradual reductions in aid and safeguard measures. I have also noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs stresses in his statement: ‘The parties must be expected to go beyond existing commitments in the negotiations.’ The developing countries need to be guaranteed specific measures, both in the form of skills development, investment aid and customs freedom for their products. The biggest global challenge in the future is to lift the least developed countries out of poverty through social and economic development. At the beginning of the next thousand years, it is unacceptable that so many people still lack elementary goods such as education, health and drinking water, and that 2/3 of these are women. This is our responsibility, but it is also the responsibility of the leadership of some of these countries. There is a broad consensus that social and economic development in the poorest countries requires value creation in the form of profitable and efficient production in crafts, industry and agriculture, as well as a good governance and improved institutional conditions. The government has presented a strategy for industrial development in the south, which will be presented to the Stortinge hopefully in the spring. These include: Mozambique, Sri Lanka and Uganda flashed out as pilot countries. In the past, we have achieved relatively large effects from so-called microcredit, an investment scheme for crafts and small businesses, which particularly benefits women and family businesses. But then we must also ensure that the international community opens its markets to the products that come from investments that we have actually contributed to. And when I'm talking about products from MUL countries, I'm talking about a wide range. So it's not just about agricultural products. And for the record, Botswana is not a MUL country. I am pleased that the Government joins in the EU's proposal to grant duty-free market access for almost all products from the very poorest countries. We have underlined this since the last presentation in May. Internationally, this could lead to the further development of current preferential arrangements, which could improve market access to key markets for the poorest developing countries. I am also pleased that the Norwegian side has taken the initiative to prioritize technical assistance work in the WTO and that we support the plans for an independent legal centre to assist the poorest countries in dealing with trade disputes in the WTO. It is difficult to talk about political driving rules in international trade without including as important issues as investment and capital movements. In fact, this is also necessary in order to ensure a level playing field between different countries and to prevent social dumping and environmental damage and to regulate the establishment of large groups across borders. Derogations must be made here for natural resources and essential parts of the public sector, inter alia. in the field of culture and well-being. The emphasising of professional rights and labour standards is an indispensable requirement for the movement of workers. Free trade must also involve the freedom of production of goods. Free trade is important, but labour standards must be the starting point – otherwise we do not get fair trade. Since 1996, Norway has been working to ensure that the WTO should set up its own working group to discuss work standards issues, in order to ensure that the WTO Secretariat is obliged to continue its work on the subject even after the ministerial meeting. I agree with the Government that this time we have to go further than in Singapore, where it was established that WTO members commit themselves to respect basic working standards. The United States has proposed a working group, while the EU proposes that trade, globalisation and labour issues should be discussed in a joint forum between the ILO and the WTO. The most important thing is that professional rights are part of the WTO's activities. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is talking about cooperating with ‘similar countries’. The United States may not be the right partner to cooperate with developing countries on employee issues. Had it been a thought to seek solutions in advance, for example: with countries such as South Africa and India? The effect of being associated with «similar» can easily be seen as protectionism. I raise this question and ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on it. Moreover, the Nordic countries dialogue with developing countries on this issue is very important. The Government is committed to strengthening WTO legislation to provide transparency in public investment, including: to strengthen control over who receives tenders and contracts in the public sector. It is important that this does not result in large groups being given control of government acquisitions of national budgets. Finally, I would like to welcome China to the WTO and, furthermore, to refer to Mr Knudsen's intervention in the June debate: ‘The focus on ethical and human rights issues in the perspective of globalisation is on two key strategies that will have an impact: development of a common binding international regulation...development of quality requirements and ethical standards within each actor’ – enterprises, governments and organisations
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e109	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e112	Right can agree with most of what Marit Nybakk now said on behalf of the Workers' Party. At one point, however, we have to ask her a question. She both opened and closed the post stressing the point of professional rights as part of the negotiating mandate in the WTO round. I simply have to ask Marit Nybakk why the Labour Party is so hard on addressing what is one of the most controversial and political conflict-filled issues, while the Labour Party also knows that any trade measures – i.e. sanctions – will be of the least effective means of raising labour standards. The Labour Party must also know that all developing countries, i.e. two-thirds of the Trade Organisation, disagree on this, and they fear that there is a part of Western protectionism that results. The Labour Party must also know that a whole business life in Europe disagrees with this. This does not mean that the Right does not believe that these are important questions – on the contrary, we fully agree with the Labour Party. Nevertheless, the question is why not the Labour Party also insists that this is a primary responsibility for the ILO, as the WTO's first ministerial meeting in Singapore concluded in 1996. Or is it so – because I noticed that Marit Nybakk now drew up the alternative proposal to set up a working group between the ILO and the WTO – that the Labour Party too now realises that it can carry all the wrong place to press this into the WTO mandate?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e117	I'm not sure if the children of the developing world are so hard on us not to stress social standards and employee rights. For the sake of employee interests, not least in developing countries, it is important that we stand here. But I would like to add that we need to have dialogue with developing countries, and that is also why I was concerned in my speech that we might have contact with some countries that are tone-indicating in the so-called 77-country group, which is no longer 77. Otherwise, I would like to stress once again what I said about «free trade» also has to be «fair trade» and that perhaps business should be the first to realize it and recognize it. In particular, Norwegian businesses are not served by multinational groups establishing and trading in areas where they can engage in social dumping, child labour and, in part, slave labour. That is why it is important that we have an international network linked to the WTO that guarantees professional rights. If I have been misunderstood, I would like to stress as strongly as I can that we believe that this is a matter which the WTO should work on, not in cooperation between the ILO and the WTO, but it should be a permanent task for the WTO, either in the form of a working group, which we have been discussing for a long time, or whether we are going into a different system. But in any case, it has to be linked to the WTO Secretariat, because we want a situation where negotiations will take place for quite a long time to come, and this is where the issue of employee rights and social standards in international trade and investment belongs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e124	Some headlines in the Newspaper and the Nations respectively have created some uncertainty about the Workers' Party's position on the so-called MUL imports – imports from the poorest developing countries. One of the observations must be understood to mean that the Workers' Party now wants to remove the so-called safety mechanism previously supported by the Workers' Party. However, a look up in the nations on 18 November may indicate that this issue is at least an open question. So I want to give Marit Nybakk this opportunity to clarify what is the Workers' Party's position on this issue and to clarify whether the Workers' Party is moving away from the previous attitude it has had to this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e129	First, let me underline once again that developing developing developing developing developing developing developing countries to eradicate poverty requires economic growth, industrial development and agricultural development. I expect that Jacobsen and I will agree. As for what is referred to as the MUL — and as I noted that the Nations are called the MUL Customs — they consist of 26 of the world's poorest countries, including the United States and Japan. lack of water, education and health are indicative. For the sake of order, I would remind you that Botswana, Namibia and Zimbabwe do not belong to the MUL countries. So the meat imports from Botswana have nothing to do with this. We have therefore been committed to the development of the south's industry and must also ensure market access for products from MUL countries. The Workers' Party is fully associated with the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement on this point. This means that we end up with the EU's proposal on customs freedom for almost all products from the least developed countries. It must not be mixed with what Jacobsen calls security mechanisms for the quantity of products in Norway, because it is a completely different discussion and has nothing to do in the WTO.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e138	The last replication that took place here was very interesting. Because it is quite obvious that if we are to manage to lift the poorest countries out of poverty, free trade is one of the most important things for those who are called MUL countries. It is true that Botswana and Namibia are not part of what Jacobsen brought up, but at the same time we have a significant import of beef from these two countries, where there is today a security mechanism that strikes after a certain number of tons. It might have been interesting to hear whether Marit Nybakk and the Workers' Party believe that it is time that that quota increases, so that Namibia and Botswana – where beef and veal sport is one of the most significant export revenues to the country – are also given rise to a greater degree of duty-free imports of meat into Norway and also into other countries. Otherwise, it is not difficult to agree with much of what Nybakk says in his post, and one reason for that is that Marit Nybakk is very little problematic about what is problematic in the WTO. One can get the impression that this is going to happen almost on the rails, and that Norway has the same interest as all other countries, and that is not true. Let me just take one field to be concrete, so that Marit Nybakk will have the opportunity to answer, and that's the question of investment. No one doubts, or disagrees, that many countries need investment. So it's not the investment itself that's the problem. The fact that the Western world invests more money, not least in the poorest countries, will undoubtedly appear to them to be positive. What was problematic in the previous agreement, which did not go through the OECD, was, of course, the dispute resolution mechanism that lay there – that one had a security network for the investor, but not for the country or countries in which the investment was made. It was also problematic that the concept of investment was so broad that it also applied to the public sector, nature, culture and whatever else. Then it would have been interesting to hear Marit Nybakk's view of the following: Investment is one thing, but does Marit Nybakk think that the outline contained in the MAI agreement, which was previously rejected, should still be rejected, and that we are now talking about an investment agreement of a completely different nature, which provides a balance between the nation state and the investor?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e149	First, the issue of quotas for beef outside the MUL area. It's probably strictly not a theme now, but there's no change here, either from our side or from the other as far as I know. Otherwise, it might be a little interesting to know that you're not close to meeting that quota when it comes to importing just meat from Botswana, Namibia and Zimbabwe. In the case of investments, there is not now a new MAI agreement. And as I consider an investment agreement, there is a need for international driving rules to regulate investments and capital movements. In fact, I believe that if we are to prevent social dumping, if we are to have almost equal conditions between the different countries, including developing countries, we must invest as part of the WTO negotiations and the WTO agreement. It doesn't in any way mean that we're in favour of a new MAI agreement. I also said in my speech that it is important that we, not least in the interests of developing countries, protect significant natural resources, but also parts of the public sector linked to, among other things. welfare and culture. And I agree that this has to be a state-to-invest balance. I am absolutely sure that if we do not go to the step of investing in the WTO, they will approx. 200 bilateral agreements between countries and former colonies continue, at least not benefiting developing countries. Otherwise it might be interesting to know that approx. 20 u countries have requested bilateral agreements with Norway if they do not enter into investment agreements as part of the WTO negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e160	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e164	The party to progress is a member of the freest economy, both nationally and internationally. A liberal economy at national level means limiting the power of the state and ensuring the independence and freedom of the individual, while at the same time deploying resources where they provide the greatest economic return for the benefit of society as a whole. A liberal economy at international level helps to strengthen the position of smaller countries and makes it more difficult for large countries to use their greater economic and political weight to promote their commercial interests. A liberal world trade is the best tool in creating growth in developing countries. By exploiting their natural resources and cheap labour in the production of goods and services and by ensuring that they are not confined to protectionist barriers, developing countries will naturally be able to achieve economic growth based on their own skills. Against this background, the Progress Party has seen GATT and the WTO as a positive contribution to freedom and prosperity. But the Progress Party also agrees that business, both nationally and internationally, must comply with general framework conditions or driving rules – a word that was used here – laid down by laws or international treaties. In the case of the Progress Party, it is essential that such regulations are general in nature, so as to minimise the possibility of making specific prohibitions and individual exemptions based on administrative discretion. In other words, we want national and international governance that is as predictable and regular as possible. Based on this general liberal view, the Progress Party, as I have said, has always seen positive aspects of GATT and the WTO. These Treaties have just been aimed at the freest trade and have combatted discrimination by including the best-practice clause and the requirement for national treatment. I have noticed that the Foreign Minister, in his presentation, sees it as a primary objective to further develop the trading system, so that it takes better account of the situation of developing countries and of what he calls a new denomination word ‘quality aspects of trade’. These relate to the environment, food safety, health, consumer and district considerations and the preservation of cultural diversity. The Minister for Foreign Affairs should have discussed in more detail how such ‘qualitative aspects’, as he referred to here, can come into strong conflict with free trade and the interests of developing countries. In this way, I do not think the Foreign Minister's statement provided the basis for a good debate in this House, but that was not the intention either. A foreign minister's statement should preferably prevent a debate from taking place. It goes without saying that if each country insists on the widest possible self-sufficiency of food, it will restrict trade and prevent countries with good conditions for farming from exporting their products. This is particularly harmful for poor countries that are competitive primarily in agricultural products. Strict environmental requirements can also be used more or less as a means of preventing imports from poorer countries that can produce cheaply due, inter alia, to: cheap labour. The same applies to the health requirement. Rich countries have the opportunity to impose far greater health requirements than poor countries that need to give different priorities. Regional policy considerations may lead to restrictions on imports and subsidisation, so that domestic production is cheaper than imported products. Regional policy considerations can lead to countries that are rich, e.g. due to oil revenues, the price of goods and services in their districts may be subsidized so that countries that cannot afford to pay such production aid will not be able to sell their products – leading to an increase in the unemployment rate. Care for cultural diversity is also a luxury problem and will easily lead to subsidies that will prevent imports from countries that cannot afford it. At all, I think that this debate, to which it is added from the Norwegian side, is a kind of cultural imperialism with very serious consequences for the poor countries. It is also necessary to impose on them a kind of mixture of Norwegian social democracy at its best declaratory level and Norwegian agricultural policy and the ideals of the rural co-operation, and, of course, Norwegian trade union movement. This will force developing countries into and, of course, the result will be that they will become less competitive. They have not undergone such historical developments and, of course, do not have the prerequisites for prioritising them in this way. So we're going to force them into this, and behind these demands are interest groups in our countries that are trying to protect their interests and privileges. To pay off this, you're running some kind of u-help that's to a large extent turning around in the blind, because up here in the north you have very small assumptions for depositing money so that they give reasonable good returns in cultures and countries that are so distant from us. In Norway’s situation, fish and oil are vital. Oil is free-trade and fortunately for Norway. In the case of fish, however, we are very interested in lower customs duties on processed products, not least in the EU. We should therefore strongly support lower customs duties on processed fish in the negotiations, even if we face resistance in the EU. However, such a position by Norway would lose credibility if we maintained our protectionist agricultural policy by means of regional policy measures, production subsidies and high rates of customs duty. I just want to make it clear that I think Norway's future as a nation is much more related to the sea and fish and fish processing than to agriculture. Agriculture is a lost cause in the long run. It is currently being mentioned that in the years to come, Norway will be dependent on importing foreign cultural labour to carry out future tasks, including: in the health sector. We're going to have some kind of foreign-cultural proletariat here in the country to take care of the old. It would be far better to free subsidised jobs in agriculture than to import foreign culture in order to deal with our low-wage professions. At the same time, we would save Norwegian taxpayers huge sums, and we could give poor countries a hand bill. Norwegian agriculture, for its part, would then be forced to concentrate on areas where it is competitive due to quality. So far, it has been a main task for Norwegian agriculture to limit exports, because if they export, they have lost money. It's completely backwards. Afterwards, it should be a task to increase exports, but without subsidies. But it requires a total transformation in the way of thinking. I see that I have some time left, and then I just want to make a comment on what was said about increasing the import quota for meat. I just want to say that I have examined this. The allowance for which there is actually opening is not being used, it is not being used. I have also asked what it can get off. I have been told that it has succeeded in Norwegian agriculture to allow African meat to get into such trouble that Norwegian consumers are not willing to buy it. If someone has another explanation, I'm interested to hear it. However, the quantity allowed to be imported from a sales office in London is not purchased in Norway. I think that's actually because agriculture has made this meat discredit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e190	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e193	It is always interesting to listen to the liberalist Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, and especially I listen with interest when he also appears on the pulpit as the warmest protector of the poor country. He points to a real problem, namely that poor countries, which are striving to manage their economy – where trade is an important part of these efforts – are not able to implement environmental legislation, which is based on labour standards or a requirement to stop child labour. At the same time, we see that globalised world trade with strong liberalisation, a world trade which has increased in volume many times in a short period of time, will not be sustainable if it does not complement normal trade rules and what goes on economic conditions, with conditions that take account of the environment, respect for labour standards and important issues relating to children's rights. Here we are in a dilemma that Fridtjof Frank Gundersen in his post hopped elegantly over. I would like to challenge him with the following questions: Is it so to understand that the Progress Party, or the representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen – to stick to him, for it is the safest thing I have ever observed – is positively prepared to implement both environmental legislation and the consideration of labour standards in the general WTO legislation, but would you like an exception for the countries for which he now spoke so warmly?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e198	The danger is that we are acting as a kind of teacher towards these developing countries. We have an economic surplus to think about the environment, we think about children, and we think about different kinds of considerations, consumer considerations and the kind that we put a lot of emphasis on. The representative came up with professional rights. We're concerned about that in our little problem world, and now we're also going to be teachers in developing countries, which are concerned with more existential problems. That was the conflict I pointed to, and that it's very easy to use these arguments as surrogate arguments when you really want protection and protectionism. Getting to the bottom of this when there are strong press groups with millions of dollars at their disposal to market their malignancy and their double communication, is what's the problem. You've been so easy to fool yourself into this self-righteousness -- that's how it really is. But this is, of course, transparent by the developing world, who realizes that in many cases this is a shell to protect ourselves, will feel good, will not work overtime, etc. So here's the problem. I would rather say that what was suggested by Mr. Steensneed to make less demands for developing countries in a number of areas than for ourselves, I think is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e203	It is always a pleasure to listen to Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, and one of the reasons for this is that he normally presents the pure doctrine – free-thinking and unspoiled, but in principle. Now it also happens that you experience that parties and groups that stand a lot closer to me than Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, present the unsatisfying theory. So the unpleasant question always comes when you're going to take this theory down and apply it to reality: is it still true? For Gundersen, there is a clear right in that market economy has proved to be a condition for significant development; there is significant economic progress in a market economy country today. He is also right that a freer world trade is favourable from the point of view of the Third World. But then it's he taking one step where it goes into pure theory that can't be applied to reality, and that's when he off it draws the conclusion that some kind of unlimited liberalism is favorable. Then we must apply this theory to those countries that have really made economic progress in recent years. And then there can be no doubt that it is the East Asian model of development that has proved to be the sovereign best of today's models of development that exist in the world in bringing poverty to an end. South Korea was as rich as Ghana 30-40 years ago. Today South Korea is 13 times richer than Ghana per. the population. What South Korea did was use the state's resources to build a shipbuilding industry that is currently competitive on the world market, but could never have been in the start-up phase, and it was protecting its own domestic market to build a car industry, which has gradually become competitive on the world market, but could never have been so without the help of the state. Then my question to Fridtjof Frank Gundersen is: should we now deprive Africans and all the other countries, or for that part of Taiwan, of the opportunity to do the same thing as South Korea? After all, Taiwan is the country that the whole party's big crowd travels on pilgrimages to about a year, according to the directory of how big business representatives travel. Taiwan has done the same thing as South Korea: used the country as an instrument to become competitive in an international economy. Why should we refuse everyone else to do this that has proved so successful?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e214	I think it leads a little too far to debate the extent to which competition in each country leads to economic growth and well-being. I just want to say that South Korea and other Asian countries with great economic prosperity would never have made such progress without a strong liberalisation of world trade. If they hadn't sold their cars to Europe and America, if they had been blocked by a protectionist policy in world trade, they would never have evolved. When it comes to exactly what policy to pursue at national level, I find it a little difficult to get into a parallel exchange, but I think most countries' experiences, at least as they are expressed in the International Monetary Fund and the OECD, are that a liberal economy with framework conditions and driving rules, which are as predictable and inevitable as possible, are an economic advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e221	Fridtjof Frank Gundersen is exceptionally clear – or at least his message is clear. We agree on the role and function of the WTO, and we see the content and meaning of it, but the professional rights take Gundersen a little away from it in this context. The Gundersen is an ardent person for free competition and balanced competition, and the professional rights are part of this worldwide. Social dumping would be a distortion of competition which Gundersen may not seem appropriate or good either in the short or long term. It is true that in the poorest countries, workers do not have tradition and culture to talk to their employers about working conditions. They have no culture to talk to employers at all. This will take time, and we're not facing anything that's going to happen like a revolution; it won't happen overnight. But it is a question of whether the representative, not also Mr Gundersen, sees it reasonable that the professional rights are part of the total work of world trade and world production, and that this must enter into the WTO mandate at a normal pace and in the long term to have it as part of the whole. Although people in the poorest countries today do not stand on the barricades for their professional rights – of course they do not, they have other problems to solve first – it would be reasonable and reasonable for the part of the world that has profits and experience to assist in this work. And here I think the investors and the producers themselves should take a thank-you. I think it would be beneficial, and I think that would make sense.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e228	Yes, the replicator used a very beautiful word, he said "help." So we're going to help the workers in the poor countries to develop professional rights on a pattern from Western Europe and, to some extent, the United States, even if they have a different religion, and even if it's not part of their culture. And so they haven't figured this out themselves. It's okay that we help, because we've always sent munitions down to these countries, but that it should be set as a condition for them to export their goods is something else. It's coercion, it's cultural imperialism that helps keep them in poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e235	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e238	In its presentation to the Stortinget on 16 November, the Minister for Foreign Affairs drew up two main objectives for the forthcoming rounds of negotiations at the WTO Ministerial Conference in Seattle: 1. to facilitate continued growth in value creation in Norwegian business 2. to further develop the global trading system in order to better take account of the situation of developing countries; In addition, consideration was given to qualitative aspects of trade, such as the environment, food safety, health, consumer and district considerations and cultural diversity. This point, I think, could have stood as a separate point on my own, because there may be a conflict of interest between different considerations that cannot be reconciled in a single strategy, and then there are often questions about flexibility and willingness to compromise in order to reach agreement. WTO negotiations seem to be richly endowed with such cross-cutting concerns and conflicts of interest, and I will take some of these to heart. The work of negotiating a agreed agenda for the new round of negotiations will be demanding. All countries will naturally position themselves for the best possible result based on national interests. It happened in the Uruguay Round, which was to last four years, but took seven, it may well happen again in this round, which is scheduled to end in 2002. But already there has been an increasing polarization between countries, as the Foreign Minister also explained — sometimes the United States on the one hand, with increasing support from, among others. different agricultural products-exporting countries, and on the other hand the EU, together with, inter alia, Japan and Norway. In other cases, attempts have been made to identify developing countries in one group against the other. That is not true either, because the groupings change according to the theme and the nature of the conflict of interest. It is clear that many of the conflicts are due to the clear interests of the countries themselves. The US wants a short list of negotiating themes related to further free trade in industrial products, reductions in agricultural subsidies and more globalised world trade, while the EU requires a broader agenda to ensure common competition rules in a more globalised world trade, focusing on the environment, food security and consumer concerns. The US, on the other hand, is pressing to open up new markets to its significant production of genetically modified agricultural products and hormone-treated cattle. However, the United States and the EU are united in introducing minimum standards on working environment and safety and will put an end to child labour. This naturally raises a suspicion among poor countries that the rich countries will both try to keep developing countries away from the markets and to push labour costs in poor countries, where very low labour costs are the most important competitive advantage. It was this representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen took up. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs explained, Norway is trying to balance different considerations. Norway supports zero duty on imports from the poorest countries, as it appears in the Norwegian preferential system for the poor GSP countries. We have also taken the initiative to give greater weight to the technical assistance work in the WTO, and support the plans to set up an independent legal centre that can provide the poorest developing countries with the necessary help to safeguard the interests of these countries when disputes arise in the WTO. It is therefore too easy to claim, as some interest groups claim, that Norway and the developing countries are opposed in the forthcoming WTO negotiations. There will be some significant conflicts of interest between countries with different needs for the implementation of new world trade legislation. It can also lead us into a conflict of interest with developing countries in demarcated areas. However, for Norway, it is important to balance the consideration of better driving rules for more liberalised world trade against environmental concerns, sustainable development and the necessary consideration of developing countries’ specific needs. I am particularly pleased that this was strongly underlined in the Foreign Minister's statement. The Development and Environment Forum has established its own working group on the WTO. They fear that Norway will largely take more account of its own export interests than of the environment and social welfare. After hearing the Minister for Foreign Affairs' statement, there should not be any basis for such an impression to be attached. But, of course, it's a difficult balance. It must be legitimate, both in terms of its own needs, but also important for fair competition between countries participating in multilateral trade cooperation, that the regulatory framework is clear, strong and implemented in the widest possible range. For Norway, this is essential for our small economy not to be overtaken by other, more powerful trading nations. Equally important must be stable, predictable world trade rules for developing countries. At the same time, however, understanding needs to be created in order for developing countries to have better access to the large markets in the industrialized countries. Reduced customs duties on agricultural products, clothing and textiles are necessary if trade is to contribute to increased economic growth in these countries. Of course, here we will be faced with significant dilemmas in relation to the need to protect own production which is of great strategic importance in the context of sustainable agriculture and employment in less-favoured areas, to mention something. Here, however, Norway must follow up the expectations of developing countries on the basis of the political priorities and declarations we have given on solidarity with the poorest countries, where aid to trade will be the most effective contribution to economic growth that we can give them. Only then can we understand the need to introduce rules which must also bind developing countries and which protect the environment, ensure important labour standards and provide children with the possibility of leisure and schooling in accordance with the provisions of the Children's Convention. The security mechanisms that will be introduced into the new legislation should be sufficient to ensure that our own vital objectives are not harmed by this further development of the trading system. These are matters on which the Christian People's Party attaches crucial importance in the forthcoming rounds of negotiations and in the talks and discussions to be held at the Seattle Ministerial Conference. In addition, it is not difficult to understand the frustration of developing countries over the lack of implementation of the Uruguay Round decisions, which would have given these countries important benefits. It must therefore be a priority task to clean this up in parallel with entering new rounds into the WTO. In my opinion, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has in an excellent way summed up the challenges to be discussed by the Ministerial Conference at its meeting in Seattle. He has also explained the Norwegian priorities on the basis of the two main objectives that have been formulated and to which I have previously referred. The Christian People's Party supports the main points of view that have been set out. ‘A lot is at stake,’ said the Foreign Minister in his statement. If all countries stand steep at their primary positions, one obviously cannot succeed. In that case, it will be a serious setback. In my opinion, the developing countries will not do that either. This too should be part of a Norwegian perspective on the challenges ahead of the Seattle negotiations and the subsequent rounds.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e266	The presentation by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the forthcoming WTO negotiations is clear on a number of points, but still revealing on others. Nevertheless, realism has, to some extent, penetrated the Government. It's supposed to have that honey. My first comment concerns the so-called integrated agenda of the WTO negotiations. The fact that the Government now openly acknowledges the existence of this agenda is important. The abolition of export subsidies and other support schemes for agriculture are crucial elements in this context. Article 20 of the WTO Agreement on Agriculture states that we have an obligation to progressively reduce support and protection measures, while taking into account non-commercial aspects. There is little doubt, as the Foreign Minister also stated, that the parties to this round of negotiations must be expected to go beyond the existing commitments. There is also little doubt that this could be difficult, as the Foreign Minister so modestly expressed it. However, the right cannot see that the government has taken the consequences of this recognition. If we fail to agree on a negotiating mandate, the so-called integrated WTO agenda will come into force. This will have a major impact on Norwegian agriculture. A question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs will therefore be: What has Norway actually contributed to ensuring a broad round of negotiations in the WTO? It seems obvious from a tactical point of view that insisting on defensive special interests is less effective for other more offensive interests. The right questions whether the Government has so far managed this in a satisfactory way and for Norway in a comprehensive and balanced way. It is obvious why Norway should go in for a wide round. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, we have offensive interests in, among other things. exports of fish, workshop industry, shipping, technology and clothing and textiles. To insist so strongly on defensive interests means to gather coal in its own head, to use an imagery language. Norway needs to show a considerable willingness to negotiate in order to understand and to make it clear that on the one hand we require customs protection for agriculture and, on the other hand, we require market access for fishery products. If the ‘national logic’ works right at this point, the outside world may not see it the same way. In this regard, the Government recalls that it is now high time to investigate and prepare for the impact on Norwegian agriculture of the continuation of the WTO's so-called integrated agenda, which in any case will be important in the forthcoming round of negotiations. The right also records that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is following up the Adult Box Declaration of Principles on Social and Environmental Policy and Health and Consumer Consideration. However, we would warn against making environmental considerations a key strategy in the WTO negotiations, which could marginalise us further. Perhaps we should ask a self-searching question if Norway is really a major driver in this area. Otherwise, we record that the government has moderated its own perception of what it is going to be put on. Lars Sponheim wrote in the Evening Post on 16 November this year that the WTO should not be primarily an organisation seeking solutions to environmental problems. It's not hard to join this. Environmental standards are probably part of several forums, for example: UN. This does not mean that the Right does not see that there are links between trade and the environment that can be better explored. The only question is whether the WTO is the right forum for this. We know that similar attempts in GATT can hardly be called successful. GATT dealt with the environmental problem as early as 1971, but the Committee on the Environment was not running until the late 1990s. Its work was further prevented by the great distance to, among other things. environmental protection fighters. The issue of the balancing of differences between industrialised countries and MUL countries is also addressed in the report. The right notes that the Government has taken up the call for a closer look at the EU position on duty-free market access for products from the MUL countries. Here, however, it is necessary to ask questions on how to propose duty-free market access on the one hand and not to bind customs duties on the other. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs elaborate on this? The right will, for its part, encourage the Government to move forward one step in this matter, and to support the proposal on the WTO table by the Director-General to bind zero-tolls for the MUL countries. It would be thought that this would be in line with the government's, or at least some of the government's, political ambitions in the area of aid. The question of labour standards is devoted to the presentation by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. We see no reason to make this a specific topic in the WTO negotiations, and therefore recommend that the Government support the EU's proposal for a joint WTO-ILO forum. On the issue of a dedicated working group on biotechnology, we support the Government's proposal not to address this in the WTO context. The Minister of Foreign Affairs says that the Government is ‘in agreement’ with the fact that investments can be included as a topic in the negotiations. But the right is calling for a more offensive attitude here. The fact that the Storting last time the question was up, greatly contributed to doing the government ‘understood’ with this, is so its case. But the matter is more important than that. There is an urgent need for a comprehensive contract work in the field of investment. In the past, the right has shown that there are currently more than 1,800 agreements at different bilateral and multilateral levels governing investment. This youth of agreements makes it difficult to regulate this so important area of world trade. We all know that investment affects global trade and our everyday lives. This is precisely why we should work towards the development of a comprehensive regulatory framework in this area, also taking into account the situation of developing countries. On the right, Norway is a small country with an open economy. For this reason, multilateral trade legislation is of major importance to Norway. We also recognise that Norway has a number of offensive interests of significant importance for Norwegian business in the forthcoming negotiations. Therefore, it may be essential that the Government has a balanced and coherent strategy for our interests, and not just a defensive defence for national peculiarities. The challenge to the central government must therefore be to remove any doubt as to its ability and willingness to care for vital Norwegian business and other interests when the Seattle meeting enters into mandate negotiations. We must not have a situation in which the three government parties try – in order to use the words of another person in this house – to ‘shut the pyramids’ in front of or during the negotiations because you simply get into internal clutter with each other. This would also be doing agriculture a bear service.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e310	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e313	The representative Frost Sterri continues to stress, as she did in a reply to the undersigned earlier, that she sees no reason to make the issue of employee rights and social standards – for that matter neither the environment – a matter in the WTO. She refers, inter alia, to: to the EU, and then I find reason to say that European Commissioner Pascal Lamy said about the following in a speech in Strasbourg on 6 October, that the WTO needs to develop its areas of social interest, such as the environment, culture, health and issues related to food, consumers, etc., in the same way as competition and investment. He adds that these areas can no longer be seen isolated from trade issues. This means that the EU recognises that real competition is needed in the world, to ensure that world trade does not favour countries that gain competitive advantage by breaching professional or social rights or by exploiting resources and the environment, it must be introduced as part of the negotiations of the World Trade Organisation, linked to both trade and investment. Does this mean that the Right in Norway is actually completely outside this discussion? And is it really the case that the representative Frost Sterri also does not see that Norwegian business has everything to do with us having minimum standards and basic employee rights even in countries with which we compete?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e320	In order to address the issue raised by Marit Nybakk about the EU, there is a substantial difference between the proposal that labour standards should be a negotiating theme in the WTO and the proposal made by the EU to set up a joint WTO-ILO working group. It's important to get involved, and I assume that in fact the Labour Party also believes the same thing, that it's the ILO that has a primary responsibility in this area. And the difference is that if you set up a WTO working group, it is clear that it will not just be – I said – a discussion club, a club where you discuss this. At some point, the results of such a working group must be brought into the negotiations. On the other hand, if this can take place in a working group of these organisations, a step forward will hopefully also be taken. I think it is important to remember, and it also includes the issue of environmental standards, that it is not the WTO that should define standards in the various areas. In the field of the environment, it is the United Nations that is doing that, so here I do not think we disagree on the importance of various issues being brought into the WTO. You just have to make sure that it's the right tasks that are brought into the right organisations, otherwise I think you're going to help this whole debate about the negotiating mandate for the next round of the WTO itself can break down simply because this is too much to be put in, and there's so much disagreement. In addition, when you want to enter tasks under the WTO round for which other world organisations are responsible, you should use them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e327	I guess we're not talking here about who should define environmental standards or, for that matter, employee rights and social standards. We talk about whether environmental considerations, environmental standards, employee rights, bans on child labour, consideration of natural resources, etc. shall be entered as part of the WTO round of negotiations in order to ensure real competition and to prevent large companies from establishing themselves in land and areas where they can engage in social dumping and child labour and to clean up natural resources, as we have seen in parts of our globe. I understand that Siri Frost Sterri now believes that perhaps the environment should still be included. As far as employee rights are concerned, I would like to ask whether the Right in the Storting will not stand behind the Government when it agrees that employee standards should be linked to the WTO Secretariat – because that is the point. Then we can discuss whether it is the American proposal or a variant of the EU proposal that we are going to put on here. The government opens up for both. However, the starting point – and the main question – must be that the WTO Secretariat and the WTO as an organisation continue to work on employee issues, social dumping, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e336	I note with interest that the Workers' Party is – I had almost said – on good track in this case, and nothing is better than that. That was also the purpose of the line I had to Marit Nybakk's posts earlier today. For our part, we believe that the Government should support the EU's proposals for this to be done jointly between the WTO and the ILO. And from the last Marit Nybakk now said, she also admits that here the government should not be very hard on this becoming part of the mandate for the next round of negotiations in the WTO. I think that's wise, because you can risk the whole thing going to collapse. And, as I said, it's important to be clear that this is going to collapse, you don't agree on a mandate for the negotiations, but this will mean that the embedded agenda will continue. And that means much more concentration on agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e341	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e344	With an outlying economy, Norway is dependent on an international rule-based trading system. And although there may be reason to focus a critical light on parts of the WTO process, it is not appropriate for Norway to be on the side of the ninth round of GATT/WTO negotiations starting in Seattle this month. As one of 135 countries, it is also obvious that Norway’s influence in WTO negotiations is somewhat limited and that it is therefore important to link alliances with other countries and groups of countries in order to influence the outcome of the forthcoming negotiations. The objective of work in the WTO in general, and for the new round of negotiations in particular, must be to put the international trading system in a context in which the organisation of growth and value creation is balanced against the situation of developing countries and the qualitative aspects of trade related to the environment, food security, employment, health, consumer and district interests and cultural diversity. In the context of international legislation, the national State must be allowed to develop and maintain national solutions which it considers necessary for social reasons. The central party does not want a regulatory framework that defines almost all national laws and regulations relating to social, health, environmental, cultural and geographical conditions as the WTO competence – at the expense of the national State. The centre party is therefore pleased that the Government is in favour of the forthcoming negotiations being put into such a broad context. ‘Globalisation must be given a human face’, to quote U.S. President Bill Clinton at the recent Istanbul Summit. In the Declaration of Adults, the Centres said that they would ‘work to further develop and improve the WTO Agreement, in order to take more account of social, health and consumer concerns’. The pre-post-fects before the forthcoming round of negotiations show that this is both an ambitious and demanding strategy. An important challenge for Norway is that most developing countries are opposed to a rule development that can better address, among other things, the concerns of the developing countries. environment, labour standards and human rights. However, while one must understand that some developing countries perceive a more stringent regulatory framework in these areas as a so-called green protectionism that could weaken the competitiveness of poor countries, it is important that Norway has a long-term perspective, including: key environmental principles such as ‘pre-war’ and ‘pollutants pay’ can gradually be accepted as fundamental principles for the WTO as well. Negotiations on the so-called intellectual property rights will also include patents. Patenting of biological inventions is also a controversial area of interest. Here Norway must seek alliances with countries that go against patents in life. In the WTO statement given in May of this year, the Government stated that one would seek to avoid investments becoming a negotiating theme in the forthcoming WTO negotiations. It is still unclear whether investments will be included in the negotiations. As the Minister of Foreign Affairs stated in the statement on the basis of which this debate was held, the Government agrees that investment could be included as a topic in the negotiations. In this case, there will be a different approach — and it is important — to this issue than envisaged in the MAI negotiations. In this context, it may be useful to recall that a number of investment agreements already exist involving Norway both bilaterally and multilaterally. If investment becomes a topic in the negotiations, it is important that Norway contributes to a sound and balanced text of the agreement which can provide effective protection against investors who exploit developing countries and which contains provisions on environment, labour standards, social standards and the like. Norway, like most other WTO countries, places a wide range of interests and values that we want to maintain in the context of the negotiations. Norway has both offensive and defensive interests to attend to. The debate on WTO negotiations has focused on the two primary industries, fisheries and agriculture, as representatives of the ‘offensive’ and the ‘defensive’ interests respectively. Of course, it must be possible to maintain both offensive and defensive interests in WTO negotiations without compromising these industries. Norway is not the only country that has opted for such a negotiating strategy. It is important to establish that trade in food products must be subject to legislation other than other goods and services. It is enough to recall the scandals that have shaken the trade in agricultural products in recent years. In addition, each country must have the right and obligation to produce basic food for its own population and to use the precautionary principle to ensure environmental and food quality. Although Article 20 of the 1994 WTO Agreement on Agriculture outlines as a long-term objective significant gradual reductions in agricultural aid and import protection, the same Article also clearly states that «non-trade groups» shall be taken into account. Government wants ‘to ensure national action spaces for the formulation of agricultural policy, with the means deemed necessary for continued active agricultural production throughout the country’. This is the quote from the statement. Therefore, emphasis is also placed on non-commercial aspects — the ‘multifunctional’ or versatile nature of agriculture. This is a continuation of the Brundtland Government’s strategy from the previous round of negotiations. In a separate explanation of vote, the Government at that time underlined: ‘the importance we attach to the non-commercial or non-economic factors. These are important elements of our agricultural policy and include not only food security but also elements such as the environment, district policy and social considerations. In the wider context, they are of vital importance to us». I assume that the Workers' Party still stands for this basic attitude. The situation for developing countries, and primarily the poorest developing countries, will become an important topic during the forthcoming WTO round. The statement warns that Norway is ready to contribute to improving market access for the poorest developing countries in important markets. The centre part shares this perception. This is, moreover, a question that comes up for debate in the context of the examination of the statement on development policy on 2 December.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e386	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e389	The Workers' Party fully supports the Government's negotiating arrangements and positions. Does the Center Party do that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e394	The government that is to negotiate in connection with the WTO is a government in which the Central Party is involved. That is why the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e400	I see the last speaker as a representative of the so-called primary industries – one was active, and another was passive. I think he went very easily over that there is a contrast negotiated between these two industries. It is quite obvious, as I mentioned in my speech, that in the future the biggest industries for Norway are fish and crustaceans, and these can be processed to great values, which the raw materials do not have. It is therefore essential for us to establish trade rules that allow us to take full advantage of the raw materials, so that the finished products are not closed out by means of high customs duties. On the other hand, we want to protect our agriculture with the highest possible customs duties, with the claim that agriculture is so special, while fish are not so special. It's not that easy to justify. Johan J. Jakobsen tried to justify this by referring to some scandals that have occurred in Europe in relation to agricultural products. But I think it must be a problem in the negotiations here and otherwise in the argument to argue that agriculture is something special, so there we have to protect ourselves as much as possible, while in the case of fish, we want duty-free exports of finished products. I think it must be difficult to combine these points of view if you set the least consistency.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e407	We're probably in on a theme now that the Center Party and the Advance Party are rather disagreeable, and it's okay to document it in a line change on a question that's very important, namely how we work. shall develop world trade in these areas. I said in my post that Norway has chosen an offensive negotiating line, an offensive negotiating strategy, in terms of fish, while one has chosen a defensive line in terms of agriculture. And Norway is not alone in doing that. There are several countries that have such strategies, so this is not as peculiar to the Center Party as Fridtjof Frank Gundersen actually expressed. We are fully aware of the need to facilitate increased exports, and we share the view that, from a longer time perspective, export values have far greater opportunities in fish and crustaceans than in agriculture. However, there is a majority in this room who believe that agriculture in Norway has a number of additional tasks in addition to producing food. It is a point of view that has a broad coverage, and it was in this connection that I referred to the so-called last-round explanation of vote of the Gro Harlem Brundtland government, where it was just emphasised that it was of vital importance for Norway to be able to maintain an agricultural sector that could contribute to the settlement and safe food production. I'm sorry to have to say that, but I think it's a little sad if it's that the Progress Party at all doesn't see any value in having a living agriculture that can help keep the settlement up and into activity around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e418	You shouldn't have opened many issues of the Nations newspaper to see that there is a significant tension in the Government related to many of the issues that are being debated today. It is clear that Johan J. Jakobsen says that one is behind the government’s mandate – everything else would have been alarming – but if one sees the nation on a regular day of the week, it is filled with speeches about what must best be perceived as a very sharp criticism of the government’s position and, of course, what may happen in the WTO. I'm not going to roll over it, because it's perfectly legitimate to have different views on it, and much of the scepticism that parts of the Center Party have in parts of what's going on in the WTO, we share in SV. Because what's happening now is that you celebrate many of the most controversial questions under the carpet, and say that you might come back to it and talk in big headlines. And that's what such debates would like to be. What I could have intended to challenge Mr Jakobsen's representative, since he is so confident about the government's negotiating mandate, is that the WTO requires unanimity. That means you have the opportunity at some point when you think something becomes too bad, to put your foot down – say here, but no longer. If you look at what might be the most controversial in the WTO, it can be grouped into two main groups. One is what we have legitimate national interest in, and the other is interests that will essentially affect countries other than our own. Agriculture, on which Johan J. Jakobsen spent a lot of time, is the kind of question that one has a legitimate national interest in protecting, while having a legitimate interest in the widest possible market access for fish in all other markets. There are also other issues that do not so much affect us. This could be done, for example, by: on public procurement issues, where the EEA Agreement already does not affect us to the same extent as many developing countries that were given full liberalisation of public procurement, would no longer be able to enjoy the same protection as we ourselves have enjoyed in all years, until the EEA Agreement was a reality. Therefore, my question to the representative Jacobsen is: In what areas is Jacobsen aware that the government might say here, but no longer, this is so important for us and for the nation, or this is so important for the developing world that we do not want to go further?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e429	As usual, the representative Djupedal was not particularly specific when he mentioned the so-called disagreement that he believes is expressed daily, among other things. in the Nations newspaper. I'd like to get back to it, but then the assumption is that the level of precision is slightly higher than the Øystein Djupedal now expressed. It is clear that there are many issues in the WTO case on which a critical light may be given. I also said that in the clear text of my article. I said that although there is reason to put a critical light on parts of the WTO concept, Norway, with its extroverted economy, is totally dependent on us having an international code of trade, and then we, as one of the 135 countries involved in these negotiations, must try to make the best of the situation and take care of national and global interests as well as possible. Then Øystein Djupedal will have answers on what areas it might be relevant for Norway to put down its feet, as he said. I have been involved in negotiations for almost 30 years here in the house – traded horse for almost 30 years, as Thorbjørn Jagland said in another connection – and I have to say that it is a very bad negotiating strategy to signal in advance that on that and that area we intend to put down our feet. It's a bad negotiating strategy, but I'm going to make one exception. If there is one area where I feel that it is natural for the Government to adopt a very restrictive position, it is in the area of patenting biological material, which also has a different name, namely patents on life. It is an area in which I assume and expect the Government to have a high profile and a restrictive position in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e438	The cord change is therefore changed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e441	One of the conditions in the Stortinget that everyone gets the most comments about when we're out there with people is that there's so few in the main hall. What I've experienced today is something new that I haven't experienced before, that it's fuller in the department than it is in the storeroom. I took a count a moment ago – then there were 22 bureaucrats and 19 large-scale representatives. If we move the members of the Government to the ministerial curve, the majority of them are even larger. And I think that actually reflects something real, that's how wide this is. In particular, all the departments must be present because almost all the departments have issues that will come to the WTO table, and we are going to go into something that is going to be very important. Of course, Norway has limited influence, and of course, it is not possible for the Storting to make a detailed negotiating mandate for a government that needs to continuously assess what is happening, and which inputs come from other countries, but just as fully: with all these reservations it is very difficult to imagine something that will have a particularly greater influence on Norway and international developments in the coming years, than the course that is now taking place in Seattle. There will be further development of the rules of the game for a whole new world. It's an open world in a whole new sense, where news, goods, financial services are global in a way they never were before. It's a world with only one superpower, and it's a world with only one economy, where the price of the few countries that are either voluntary or involuntary outside this world economy is so enormously negative that no one can want anything similar. Nor is there any reason to meet this globalisation with the fear and black paint that some people do. Let's not forget that the life expectancy of the human being born in Asia this year is 20 years higher than the life expectancy of the human being born in Asia in 1960. When we get this global economy, we're talking about a tremendous improvement in human living standards all over the globe. But it's not enough to say that. It is also true that 1 billion people are outside this global standard of living increase, and it is also true that the differences in the world are increasing at a dangerous pace, and that it can provide the basis for new conflicts. In other words, we must face globalisation openly and with attempts to create rules, but at the same time focus on the difficulties. Norway is a small country. The interests we want to manage – whether it's our own national or it's interests on behalf of the poor world – are best served by an organised code, because organizing the world better sets the framework for the most powerful. And it's not that if we didn't have the World Trade Organisation, then we would say socialist or left-wing or Norwegian or social democratic ideals without further government. It would be more power for the most powerful, that is essentially the United States. But it is also the case that within the WTO the power of multinational companies and their lobbying capabilities and the power of a country that is formidable to the United States, and it is important to do what we can to help form a counter-power in a WTO negotiation context. SV wants Norway to take care of the interests of the poorest. Then it is important to remember that ‘un-country’ is no longer a concept of real meaning. The term ‘third world’ is also not a concept of meaning, and the reason for this is that the differences between these countries, including internally in the countries we rubrise as developing countries, are so colossal that we cannot put them in one bag. But if someone asks what has been the most successful development model in the last ten years – and then I am back to the exchange of lines with Fridtjof Frank Gundersen earlier today – there can be no doubt that there is one development model that has brought more economic progress for more people than anyone else: that is what we can roughly call the East Asian development model. That is why, in my view, it is very important not to create a WTO regulatory framework that prevents new countries from practicing the things that have made such formidable progress in countries such as Korea, Taiwan, China, Thailand, and a number of other countries in East Asia. What has made progress in these countries is precisely the combination of an open, outward-looking market-based economy, but with a strong and effective state that also has a number of instruments to favour its own business at the crucial start-up stage. For one thing is to compete once competitive companies have developed, something else is the first phase in which these are actually to develop. It is at this stage that the poorest countries are today, where small measures can easily be taken out in the start-up phase of powerful interests elsewhere. Not long ago there was a debate in South Korea that I think puts it all in perspective. It was a formidable national concern when the proportion of Korean cars in the South Korean car market was falling from 97 to 95 pst. It caused considerable debate in Korean media, with the danger that Korea could then be out in competition on its own market. And everyone understands that when Korean cars have more than 95 pst. on the Korean car market, it is due to the fact that the Korean State has had the means to secure this market during the construction phase of its own industry. And there I am in the main recommendations SV want to give to the Government in front of this round of negotiations: it must be actively worked to safeguard the interests of the poor countries in the sense that not those countries that are currently totally undeveloped are being prevented from following in the development tracks that have now proved to be a major development. I'm not saying that one country can copy another, that's never the case. But there's something that has been shown to work. This must not prevent new countries from doing so. Some examples of this: In the case of public procurement, it is correct and positive when the Government recommends that they be transparent, because among other things: Many poor countries are very corrupt, and public procurement is, in fact, brother-in-law or child-based, as they were, for example. in Indonesia under Suharto. However, it is not right to create a government procurement regime that will make third-world countries lose the opportunity to favour their own businesses in public procurement. In many of the so-called poor countries, the state plays a much greater role in the economy than it does in our rich and developed part of the world. Although their economy is very small, it will have very damaging consequences if they lose the opportunity to make the purchases to the state locally. The same applies to investment contracts. What is now available is much less extensive than what was in MAI, and there are many features that are not as negative as what they were there. It is also important to ensure an international regime allowing companies and countries to venture to invest in countries such as Russia or the Africans. However, it is not necessary to create an international investment regime that makes poor and weak countries stand without the means to control multinational companies. That's exactly what you had in East Asia. The state was so strong that when you got foreign investment, which you got on a dramatic scale, you had a country that could guide them towards national priorities and develop their own business. Remember, China alone received NOK 230 billion in foreign investment last year. But even though China is a country with many weaknesses, they have a state that can help lead this in the right direction. Then I think it is positive, if I understood Marit Nybakk and the Workers' Party correctly, that it is recommended that Norway should not now associate itself with some Western countries and not necessarily just with Western trade union movements in order to establish social standards in developing countries. A country like India has hundreds of millions of people who are going to be below any limit of social standards, no matter how low it has to be put through an international code. That means that we need to engage in a dialogue with a country like India, and I would recommend – as I also understood it was Marit Nybakk's scheme – to contact such a country as early as possible, in order to find a regime that will help to develop the poorest in India, Pakistan or Bangladesh, and not create a confrontation with countries like India, Pakistan and Bangladesh, because we will never manage to do child labour through sanctions and boycott – just through development. There is no child labour in Taiwan or in Korea today after countries have developed so strongly. So SV has made some proposals, and I want to ask the Foreign Minister for his views on these. Johan J. Jakobsen was very clear that although increased international trade contributes to economic progress in many places, the environmental costs are high. We have not found any sustainable way of making the whole world as rich as we are, and there is danger associated with the patent directive and intellectual property rights. Johan J. Jakobsen was very clear in the direction that the Government will fight actively and hard against patents being incorporated into the new WTO system. I would ask that the Minister of Foreign Affairs confirm that there will be an equal degree of commitment to what he has provided. I would like to end by saying that for SV, it is of course absolutely essential that Norway, as far as it can be done at all, allies with the very poorest, the least developed countries, and supports their demands. I would also like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on that. Finally, I address the proposals that SV has made during this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e469	The representative Erik Solheim has taken up the suggestions he has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e474	I listened with great interest to Erik Solheim's posts, and I was very much in agreement with much of what he said. Among other things, he stressed that we are best served with an organized code. But he emphasised, of course, that it is important here that Western countries do not develop schemes at the expense of the poorest countries. When he also commented on the question of whether investments should be included as part of the negotiating mandate, I do not understand him. He almost argues that this might now be a good idea. I expect that Erik Solheim will immediately agree with me that perhaps the main error in what happened to the MAI negotiations was that it happened under the auspices of the OECD. It is obvious that the WTO must be a much more appropriate forum, just to ensure that developing countries are involved in the development of legislation that can create driving rules in this area as well. Erik Solheim said that there were many positive features of what was now happening. I do not understand that he also proposes that investments should not be included as part of the negotiating mandate. Or is it that Erik Solheim is promoting some suggestions that he is in favour of, and other suggestions are he required by the group to promote, while he is really arguing against them?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e479	I want to thank Siri Frost Sterri, for if I can give it the message to the SV that I humbly accept all the instructions that the party puts on my shoulders, it will arouse great enthusiasm in the sequences. If I can then also be confirmed by Siri Frost Sterri that it is that when the party imposes something on me, I always do that, then I am grateful for it. Øystein Djupedal is the one who's been involved most in this on the SV side, and we're openly saying that what's now in place is far better than the MAI agreement. There is no doubt about a number of points, but it is not the same as we believe that investment should now go into this. And the reason for that is the great bias in power, which lies in many of the questions that relate to just this. You make rules that seem to be neutral, but that really give power to one and not to the other. These include: on the possibility of penalties. If the two parties are, on the one hand, a nation-state wishing to control and direct investment in its country in the right direction, and on the other hand, for example. a multinational company wishing to invest there, the sanctions regimes that are being implemented will only give one party opportunities, not the other. It is the most important scepticism we must constantly have in the WTO, namely that, yes, it is very important to have international legislation, because international legislation protects the weak more than anarchy. But no, in the WTO there is no balance in power either. The power of Guinea-Bissau is not the same as that of the United States, to take it completely banal. Probably even the sum of the power of all of Africa is not the same as the power of the United States. And that's taking this into account, going in and trying to contribute a little bit from the Norwegian side to cancel out the huge difference of power, which is one of our main issues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e488	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e491	First, I want to establish the closest conventional starting point that everyone has had, namely that ensuring better rules with regard to trade between nations, ensuring non-discrimination through international rules, is positive, not least for Norway which has a very large part of its economy related to international trade. Furthermore, on behalf of the Left, I would like to express our support for the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and for the positions adopted there. However, it is rare that something is only positive, that there will not be at the same time problems and potential disadvantages associated with one and the same situation. It is therefore important to have an informed debate in which different environments and interest groups have good opportunities for informed participation in the debate. It is also of great importance for us to make decisions and make assessments in relation to the negotiations. And in particular, it will provide a basis for preventing misunderstandings and misconceptions about what the negotiations are all about. On the left, we are therefore pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has repeatedly pointed out that Norway will be active in supporting greater transparency in the negotiations. In several contexts, the Left has referred to the need for greater publicity relating to international issues and to external relations, at the latest in this morning’s debate relating to the fundamental law-making of the principle of disclosure, where it was precisely a point for the Left to stress that the fundamental principle of disclosure would also give a weight and an indication of this in relation to highlighting publicity also in international negotiating situations. I also point out that the position of the Committee on Freedom of Speech places a significant emphasis on precisely the fact that a number of questions have been drawn up from a national arena and from an international arena, which creates major problems for an informed debate if, at the same time, this results in large parts of the information related to the issues being excluded from the public. In its extension, there is also reason to stress that there is a democratic problem in the fact that a number of issues are being moved from the nation state to the international arena. It is therefore important for the Government to focus on actively informing during the negotiations, and also to address the conflicts that could exist between different Norwegian interests and between Norwegian interests and other interests that we also had to be concerned about supporting and agreeing with, and that it is also concerned with informing the Storting. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that, in a situation of negotiation, there could always be conflicts of interest in the negotiations themselves and that there could not always be full transparency about all positions. That's some of the voltage field you'll be in. Furthermore, it is a point to point out that, in order to ensure the development of international trade and free trade in developing countries and not to create new power groups, so that the progress that the nation will have is not reserved for a smaller group, it is important that the development of democracies in the poorest countries also takes place hand in hand with increased free trade. There will be an important factor in ensuring that the development of a country benefits as much as possible. In the course of this extension, it may also be a point to recognise that in the context of the WTO round negotiations, there could be larger international groups, multinationals, which could have a significant influence and press activity in relation to the negotiating situation. So over to some of the more substantive aspects of the negotiations. It is first a point to stress that involving environmental issues is important. A number of important environmental policy conditions must be in place to allow liberalisation to lead to ecological sustainable development. Therefore, an important objective in the future is that the WTO takes into account the obligations laid down in international environmental agreements and key environmental principles that lead to and that the polluter should pay. The WTO cannot solve the world's environmental problems. We have to rely on effective international environmental agreements. However, it is important to clarify the relationship between WTO legislation and the use of trade measures in environmental agreements. The trading system must provide the necessary flexibility and predictability for the use of trade measures in environmental protection agreements. In this context, there is also reason to highlight what has been said in the statement on eco-labelling. I am therefore having a little difficulty fully seeing the point made by Siri Frost Sterri, namely that there is a contradiction, between on the one hand saying that environmental issues are important in relation to the WTO negotiations, and, on the other hand, having a clear relationship in itself that environmental issues cannot be resolved through the WTO and through the agreement that it was primarily supposed to achieve. Like Johan J. Jakobsen, I would also like to highlight the issue of patents on life, and I would like to quote from the Foreign Minister's statement: ‘We stress that the mandate for TRIPS negotiations should not restrict existing access to exemptions from the patenting of animals, plants and their manufacturing methods. Furthermore, we want to work towards better consistency between the TRIPS Agreement and the objectives of the Convention on Biological Diversity.’ This is an important question for the Left, and we are therefore well pleased with what is in the presentation. But we also want to stress that this is a central issue that needs to be followed up during the negotiations, and that at this point there is agreement between the Norwegian position and what is at least important for most developing countries. Similarly, I would also like to point out what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has highlighted in relation to the issue of biodiversity. It is important for Norway that services be included in WTO negotiations as far as possible. The development is well that in many ways there is a merger of services and goods, so that trade in goods alone is no longer as topical as in the past. There will often be questions about being able to sell a service in connection with selling a good. As regards investment, too, it is natural to suggest that these should be part of the WTO negotiations, and I might stress in particular that it is important to ensure security not only for the investor but also for the country in which investment is made. Both should be part of this. In the case of more direct Norwegian interests, it is also important to highlight the situation related to fish and agriculture, where our positions can be seen to be in contrast with one another. We want as much free trade as possible in processed fish products, while, in the light of Norwegian agriculture, we have an interest in significant exceptions in relation to free trade in agricultural products. I also refer you here to the Minister for Foreign Affairs' statement and agree with what has been said there. Similarly, we must also be concerned that issues related to professional rights of others, social issues such as: child labour, comes into relation to WTO negotiations and free trade, without me seeing any reason to go into particular detail on how to deal with it in that case. It is also important that we are concerned about developing countries' interests. But as Erik Solheim, among others pointed out, there is not one interest in developing countries. Finally, I would like to highlight what is a clear point in the statement: its more international trade is linked to legislation, the more important it is also to have the ability to use this legislation and to safeguard its interests under it. What is almost the nature of developing free legal aid for weak nations is an important point to pursue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e536	Let me first say that I am pleased with the broad support given to the Government so far in the debate for its negotiating arrangements. There is less than one week left until the launch of the WTO Ministerial Conference in Seattle. We are faced with what may be the most difficult negotiations in the history of GATT and the WTO. In Geneva, the preparation process now seems to be locked, which I will come back to. A number of the issues on the agenda are controversial and engage the media, organisations and public opinion, as we have noticed today. Negotiations are not just about the liberalisation of trade. They also address several of the global challenges we face today and are affected by international trade. I would like to begin by stressing the importance that we attach to the forthcoming WTO negotiations by the Government. The Norwegian economy is dependent on a strong and regulatory multilateral trading system. Several of today's speakers have underlined it. The system must ensure that world trade is not governed by arbitrariness and the law of the strongest. A well-functioning trading system is particularly beneficial for small countries. Therefore, strengthening the regulatory framework in several areas is in Norway’s interest. Since the start of the preparatory process, Norway has emphasised that a broad round of negotiations is an important prerequisite for ensuring a balanced outcome of negotiations. A broad round of negotiations is also important in order to safeguard the breadth of Norwegian interests. I can assure the representative Frost Sterri that we have identified a wide range of offensive business interests. In addition, we have clear interests related to the development of legislation that ensures the preservation of qualitative aspects of trade, such as health, the environment and consumer considerations. In my view, it is through a broad round that all 135 WTO member countries and 31 candidate countries will be able to safeguard their national interests. Decisions by unanimity are by no means an easy process in this forum. In practice, this means that no one — even the United States, the EU or Japan — can have full impact in all areas. The WTO has been the subject of increasing attention in its opinion, both internationally and in Norway. This development leads to greater transparency requirements for the trading system. It's positive. This is primarily a responsibility for each Member State. However, the WTO as an organisation must also contribute in the same direction. In Seattle, the organisation will face key challenges that Member States have to deal with. These include: to better integrate developing countries into world trade, in particular the poorest of them. There are no quick solutions here. This is a gradual process in which, through transitional arrangements, better market access and technical assistance help to enable these countries to participate actively in international trade. The recent breakthrough in the American-Chinese negotiations on the conditions for Chinese WTO membership is welcome news. For 13 years, China has been negotiating membership. Now it may seem as if this is in sight. However, we must not forget that a number of other WTO members, including Norway, still have to conclude their bilateral negotiations with China on the membership conditions. In addition, the necessary accession procedures must be implemented. This means that China can join the WTO at the earliest in the summer of next year. As an applicant country, China will nevertheless participate in the forthcoming round of negotiations. Russia has also made progress in its accession negotiations, but the time for Russia's accession is further ahead. Both the forthcoming round and the WTO as a whole will become more global and comprehensive with the participation of the candidate countries. Since last week’s presentation, there have been no breakthroughs in any of the major and important problem areas. As I mentioned at the outset, the situation in Geneva is completely locked down. It has been decided to conclude the draft Ministerial Declaration, which was intended to form the basis for the Seattle discussions. It is therefore likely that no agreed working document will be available at the beginning of the Ministerial Conference. The gap between key actors remains far too wide, in particular in the field of agriculture and in terms of developing countries’ demands for better implementation of existing agreements. This gives cause for concern. We are facing long and difficult discussions before we have a unified mandate for the forthcoming agricultural negotiations. To this extent, the draft mandate contained elements that go far beyond Article 20 of the Agreement on Agriculture. Together with neighbouring countries, we have promoted alternative texts that comply with Article 20. For developing countries, the implementation of existing agreements and legislation is a key issue. They call for the correction of what they experience as bias in a number of Uruguay Round provisions. For many developing countries, this is a key issue to be adequately addressed in the declaration. Another question that has been raised by some speakers is the question of zero duty. The representative, Frost Sterri, referred to the EU's proposals, as I said in my statement that we support from the Norwegian side. However, this does not mean any change in relation to the Norwegian GSP scheme. That's why we wanted to go a little further and look at the proposal of the Director-General that is now contained in the Ministerial Declaration, to bind zero tolls. We have said this, of course, must be weighed against the Norwegian producer interests. A prerequisite for our further assessment of this is to also have certain security mechanisms, but we are willing to go beyond the EU. Environmental considerations appear to be acceptable as a so-called horizontal principle, i.e. to be applied for in all areas of negotiation. Since it seems to be accepted by the other actors, I assume that the representative Frost Sterri can also accept it. Market access for industrial products, including fish and fishery products and the services sector, is also included in all draft mandates. If this text remains, it will reflect Norwegian interests satisfactorily. In a number of other areas such as competition policy, electronic commerce, simplification of trade procedures, public procurement, anti-dumping, etc. there are texts on the table that we support from the Norwegian side. However, it is still far from certain that a decision will be taken on a round covering these areas. The Geneva process confirms that consideration of basic labour standards is a controversial issue. There will probably be tough discussions here in Seattle. We will, on the Norwegian side, support the US initiative on a WTO working group, subsidiaryly the EU proposal for a single ILO/WTO forum, if it turns out that this proposal is widely supported. To answer Nybakk's question, we have had a number of discussions both with other countries in the country and with developing countries, including South Africa and India, to gain an understanding of our views and to create a compromise. Until now, this has not been possible. With the resistance this issue faces, it is clear that this will be a very difficult topic at the Ministerial Conference. We are facing a number of unresolved problems when the Ministerial Conference opens in Seattle in a few days. It will require flexibility from all the 135 WTO Member States to adopt a declaration that adequately responds to the challenges facing the multilateral trading system today. The representative of Solheim, on behalf of the Socialist Left, has tabled five proposals. I don't think I have time to go into all the suggestions now, but if I'm allowed to come back, I can go through them in detail. But I can assure the representative and Stortinget that we are actively working on all these questions. With regard to the issue of patents in life, which the representative specifically raised, I am pleased with the representative of Hoves' reference to my statement. It is right to point out that we want the ‘TRIPS negotiations not to restrict existing access to exemption from patenting of animals, plants and ways of producing them’. On the issue of biodiversity, we believe that the Convention on Biological Diversity is already negotiating to regulate trade in genetically modified organisms. On our side, we have a strong desire that these negotiations lead to a positive outcome, and we have, as I also mentioned in the statement, raised that these issues should not be addressed within the framework of the WTO. Another important issue that has been raised by others is investment. It's important to stress here that it's not the same type of investment that you had in the MAI negotiations. This is only about direct investment, and as the representative, Mr Djupedal, has been involved in dispute resolution mechanisms, it is about dispute resolution mechanisms only between States, not between investors and states.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e585	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e588	Let me start by saying that I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on two points. One is that this won't be easy. The second is full support for the Foreign Minister’s approach to zero imports, including his thinking of going beyond the EU’s proposals, i.e. what is the Director-General of the WTO proposal. Then we have addressed this several times here today with the need for international driving rules in a globalised economy, also to safeguard social minimum standards, employee rights, prevent social dumping, etc. The foreign minister has responded to this, and he has also been very clear in his presentation. This is not only about promoting soft values and higher quality of life, but also about real competition so as not to be established on the basis of social dumping. It is commendable that Norway and the Nordic countries have had the contacts they have had with prominent developing countries. I would like to repeat what I said in my speech – which was supported by Erik Solheim, the representative of the Minister for Foreign Affairs – that it is not that simple in relation to the developing countries. You can understand their fear that we're using this as protectionism. It is not that easy to be alone with the United States and the EU. One can try to find solutions in advance, more systematically as part of the scheme, such as: Norway has entered the WTO round, with other countries. Now the Minister of Foreign Affairs also mentioned India. There are countries where you can try to find minimum solutions in the first place, and then work further towards a WTO working group.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e597	The representative, Mr Nybakk and I fully agree, and I believe that we too agree with the method. The problem is that we have not received the positive feedback on the method that the representative Nybakk and I have tried to pursue. I agree with the representative Nybakk that it is difficult for us to be so close to the United States. The reason for the alliance with the United States is of course that we agreed in principle with the United States, but because we have felt that this alliance was a little difficult, we have discussed these issues with Canada, and we have discussed them with a number of EU countries, to find compromises or states from which we can work further. We have also had contact with a number of developing countries. This isn't something we start off with right now, we've been on for a long time. The representative of Nybakk will be aware that this matter has been discussed in this room several times, and it has also been discussed outside this room. So this is something we've been working on for a long time. India and South Africa have been two countries with which we have tried to work together, but so far no developing countries – unfortunately, I have to admit – have supported our efforts to improve dialogue on labour standards in the WTO, and a number of industrialised countries are also opposed to this. That is why we may well see that the EU's compromise proposals on a working group between the ILO and the WTO can be a possible way to go. We will continue to work on this within the ILO, where it is a matter and we agree on this, but we have thought, as the representative Nybakk believes, that the WTO should also engage in this. It is possible that the proposal that is now on the EU side can be a compromise, even if it is uncertain for the time being.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e606	In the statement to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, it says at the very end: ‘Our main objective, however, is to work actively for a comprehensive round of negotiations that takes care of the entire spectrum of Norwegian interests, both offensive and defensive.’ That was the starting point for me in my article earlier today specifically asking what the Government has contributed so far. Then it is not worth answering as the foreign minister does: yes, they have done a lot, because they have identified a number of offensive areas for Norway. Yeah, I guess that's what I'm thinking. It's just supposed to be missing. But that was not the question. How has Norway contributed constructively in Geneva in all these preparations that are now being made for the Seattle meeting? How have input been made and supported other proposals and texts in areas that may also be of interest to Norway? The impression that I am left with so far, by dealing with the media, is that the area in which Norway has really made a difference is the agricultural area, where it may seem that Norway is more isolated than ever, because most other countries, including countries where the Minister of Foreign Affairs claims that Norway is playing with it, namely the EU and Switzerland, are in the process of transforming agriculture and do not have the challenges we really face. That was really the question, and there I would also like to make a concrete point: What has Norway now actively contributed to investing in the negotiating mandate? I would like to remind you that it was actually a very large majority who wanted the Government to play an active role here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e621	The representative Solheim referred earlier to the diplomat lodge and all the bureaucrats there, and with so few participants in the press lodge either, I'm going to be careful with what I say about the media. With all due respect for the media representatives here: I assume that the representative Frost Sterri is not just sticking to the media when she is going to get to know what Norway is doing in international negotiations. We are practicing something called more publicity, and I am happy to hand over to the representative Frost Sterri copies from our archives of the instructions given to the delegation in Geneva, and the reports we have received on the activities of the delegation. I think it's going to be difficult to go through all the recordings we've made in the time available to me, but I can assure the representative that it's happening in a number of areas where we have offensive interests, as well as of course taking care of our defensive interests. It's not right, as the representative Frost Sterri says, that we're more isolated than before. I can assure you that last night we presented proposals for texts with Switzerland, Korea and Japan. The EU, too, has worked closely with each other in these areas, especially the defensive ones. In addition, we have produced texts that go on fish and fish products, and we have also participated in investments. In principle, investment has not been a matter that has been discussed, because the United States has been restrained, along with some other countries, and we have had so many other issues to discuss. However, once the investments have been put on the agenda, we have discussed this in the light of the positions on qualitative aspects that we have underlined, while, of course, we have referred to, for example. the needs of developing countries in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e630	I want to go back to the problem area that the representative Marit Nybakk addressed in his post – Erik Solheim – and that she also addressed in the exchange of lines, namely working systematically with a strategy vis-à-vis non-similar countries in terms of work standards. We know, of course, that this is difficult; it's hard to deal with India and Bangladesh and others. At the same time, however, they are aware of their major problems with child labour, and they are aware that they have workers who are in a difficult situation with regard to professional rights. Here, there is just one area where Norway, because one is independent of the blocks, could actively enter and have a dialogue with non-correspondent countries on their own premises. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that of course it is positive that the United States has a policy in this area and also the EU has it, and that it can end with a compromise, which may be a bit of one and the other with regard to the ILO and the WTO. At the same time, however, Norway should have a systematic approach towards non-similar developing countries for further systematic work in this area. And finally, I would like to ask him if he can specify what has been done on the part of Norway in terms of investment, so that we do not end up with the strongest being still valid.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e641	The representative Grete Knudsen and I have had more discussions in this Chamber on labour standards. And as I have pointed out earlier, when the representative Grete Knudsen was responsible for this in her time, she also had problems getting an impact on Norwegian views. We know from the Singapore Ministerial Conference that what you wanted from Norway was much shorter, although, of course, you had – as I assume – this strategy and also contacts with like-minded countries or countries with which you could discuss it. It was then said that WTO members undertake to respect basic labour standards, and no longer did they come. What we hope for is, of course, that this time we're going to go further, and that's why we've been discussing this, as I said, with a series, not to say the vast majority of developing countries. This is also something we have addressed in the context of our general development assistance, because – as the representative Grete Knudsen was involved, and to some extent others – working standards can be a problem for developing countries. So to the question of investment. It has been important for us to work for the investment debate now to be different than in the context of the MAI agreement. We've seen that it's important to limit this to direct investment, that's what it might also be possible to get the broadest support for. It is also important to stress that today we are faced with proposals – which we also support – where there is a state of state agreements and not that we are in favour of dispute resolution arrangements between an investor on the one hand and a state on the other. In our view, this type of proposal which is now on the table will be able to protect the interests of the other Member States.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e650	It is difficult to disagree with the foreign minister's point of view, and it may be good, because I do not doubt for a moment that we have a foreign minister and a government that wants the best. But in the case of labour standards, which are also discussed, it is a pro-contra question. It's quite obvious in our interest that we get work standards in international trade. On the other hand, it is just as obvious that it will be perceived as protectionism from those to be imposed standards that are miles away from what otherwise might be. I hope that it will be possible to move further in such a direction as the Foreign Minister suggested. I think it's important. What is most important, however, is to ensure that, at least, agreements in the WTO that undermine other agreements that have been concluded, not least the ILO Conventions. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is of a slightly more general nature. There have been criticisms of the WTO that have gone into a lack of transparency, that the many different grassroots organisations have not had the opportunity to participate at all in the decision-making processes that have taken place. So there's been a closed system that has come out very little. There has also been a wish from a great many, not least many, developing countries, that the processes that have taken place in the WTO must be continuously evaluated, so that we can see what the effect has actually been. It is also a wish of many national organisations in Norway that we should evaluate the previous rounds on a national basis, in what was then the name of GATT. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is as follows: Of course he has brought with him in the suitcase, I think, a Norwegian traditional position on greater transparency, but how will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Foreign Affairs themselves ensure that there is a greater degree of transparency, that the popular organisations get more insight? And not least, and perhaps most importantly, will he take the initiative to evaluate previous rounds of negotiations from the Norwegian side, and also that there will be a wider evaluation in Seattle?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e661	Here it's about transparency in at least two fields. As far as Norwegian transparency is concerned, I think we have done what we can to involve organisations and be open. We'll keep doing that. We have non-governmental organisations in the Seattle delegation, we want to meet with them at the Seattle conference, as well as having an orientation meeting the next Friday, where we will review Norwegian views. I must be allowed to remind you that we are only in the preparatory phase. We are working on and hope to have a mandate for the negotiations. We have come very short in Norwegian positions so far. As far as the evaluation is concerned, I would like to mention that the OECD, UNCTAD, the World Bank and some other organisations have carried out and are carrying out useful analytical work on the effects of international trade and trade legislation. In the preparations for Seattle, the WTO is now discussing the implementation of the WTO Agreement and its impact on developing countries. What we want to do is encourage the OECD, UNCTAD and the World Bank to continue their work and carry out further evaluations and analyses. I think it's very important. In a more global context, it will also be natural for us to look at the consequences for Norway, but it will certainly be of the greatest interest when we come into negotiations and look at what positions we have to hold fast to, and which we can state.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e671	There is sometimes a tendency when we discuss in Norway, that we discuss as if we are running the whole process, for example. in the WTO. With all due respect for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Norwegian negotiating team, that's probably not the whole truth of what's going to happen in the future. But I am very pleased with the positive signal that was now given that everything will be done to be as open as possible. This applies not only to Norwegian non-governmental organisations, but also to Norway's doing what it can to give international non-governmental organisations the role they have in many other negotiation processes in relation to the WTO. So far there's been a huge difference between, for example. how voluntary organisations have been involved in the Rio process, the Kyoto agreement and the various environmental processes, and what has been the relationship with the WTO. So if the Foreign Minister can assure that Norway will also contribute to such international openness and fight for it, I think that is one of the important things Norway can do. It is absolutely impossible for the Storting to adopt some kind of detailed negotiating mandate for the Government, but the Government will have to come back to the Storting frequently, whether it becomes the enlarged Foreign Committee or otherwise, when you come to different situations in the negotiations. If I am finally going to challenge the Foreign Minister for what I think is the most difficult thing, then this is: What is Norway's priority? What do we think is the most important thing? For well Norway can join the positions of different countries on many issues that come up, but eventually there will be questions about what we consider so important that we spend our time, our resources, our lobbying capacity, our diplomatic intelligence on actually getting it through. And a country with four million inhabitants spreading across all the questions that have been mentioned here today is going to have very little influence. So the question of what we consider to be the most important thing and what we want to spend the most time and energy on will be reported, and then I feel that the Stortinget has today given a signal that it should not only be Norwegian self-interests, but to a very large extent to be behind basic so-called un-land demands.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e680	I am pleased that Solheim's representative is aware that Norway is not running the WTO, and I hope that the other representatives are aware of that. With regard to the role of voluntary organisations in Seattle – I am familiar with this, it will be about. 1,200 organisations present – we will, as I said, work to ensure that our organisations are included as far as possible, and we will, of course, also state that we believe that non-governmental organisations should be able to be included as widely as possible on a general basis. With regard to Norway’s priorities, I hope that the representative Erik Solheim agrees with me that the Government has put forward some general views on what is a priority. I also agree that we have received clear signals back, which, as far as I can judge, is in accordance with what the Government has stated. But we haven't come so far that these really have become difficult questions for Norway yet. What has been important to us now, and as I have explained, is that we get a wide round of negotiations. We have been concerned that we should get the most out of the various elements that we have discussed here today, not because Norway is going to spread, but precisely because it is going to be a global trade regime, and we must take care of the interests of the various countries, not least developing countries, who may need our support in laying a certain foundation in terms of the scope of the mandate. Then, as Solheim's representative was also in the house, we're going to come back to Stortinget when we're going to define Norwegian positions when we start negotiating in each area. But that's not how far we've come. What we hope for is that we have a mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e689	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e692	Norway has always fought for international driving rules regulating its actions. The alternative is that everyone does what they want, preferably the big ones, and no one gets what they want. I therefore disagree with those who are actively working against the World Trade Organisation, not least because Norway, as a small country, has experience with what it means to have agreements that apply to the small countries in the same way as to the large ones. However, when new areas are emerging in an even more globalised economy, we must always have the interests of the smaller and least developed countries in mind, precisely because more than most of us have increased our own well-being through extensive trade with other countries. In our time, countries and people are more dependent on each other than before. Production, trade and economics are today a web of compounds that makes no country capable of acting without regard to its environment. Modern technologies, capital movements and investments across borders and continents reinforce these developments and increase the need for common driving rules also in the area of investment and on the whole service side – which applies not least to Norway’s shipping. As is well known, the Workers' Party also supports the Government's broad approach to the negotiations, in the same way as the EU approach suggests. But for us, it doesn't matter how the driving rules are designed. The environment has been high on the agenda from Norway over the course of the year. It must continue to do so in the WTO, because environmental considerations must be integrated into all aspects of business. And it must also have consequences for ourselves. At the same time, we must be willing to go through our own arrangements, for example. in agriculture, in order to ensure that the aid schemes we wish to continue maintain water in relation to the environmental side. We agree with the approach recommended by the Government towards Stortinget, and are in the same way as the Government also agrees that one in negotiations must be expected to go beyond the existing obligations, in the interests of countries other than ourselves, to our own exports and not least to the environment. It could mean tough conversions for ourselves, and it would be wrong if we didn't admit this. It is gratifying that the debate on employee rights and the ban on child labour may seem to have entered a somewhat more constructive phase than what we had at the Singapore meeting. Both the United States and the EU have decided to introduce minimum standards for working time and the working environment and ban on child labour. But I want to refer to the exchange of lines that we had in place, and hope that the Government can participate in a completely different dialogue vis-à-vis the non-corresponding countries for the further work, precisely because as a member of the WTO you have an equivalence within the initial. It is sad to see that so many of the developing countries feel that Norway is on the same channel as the United States and also the EU, because Norway has always been genuinely concerned with equivalence between Member States, and must therefore provide for dialogue on the developing countries’ own premises. That's the slow way, but I think that's the right way. Finally, I would like to express my joy at the fact that China now, after many years, finally seems to be becoming a WTO member soon. We know that will require major changes for them, but at the same time many will also enjoy increasing trade with this exciting country. I also hope that the Government will follow up the initiatives taken by the Land Organisation against the Chinese country organisation for projects to ensure driving rules on behalf of workers in terms of professional rights and democratisation in companies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e705	The Secretary of State's statement to the Stortinget was a good presentation and testimony to transparency. I would like to say right away that I am not against WTO negotiations and the WTO agreement. It is clear that for a country like ours, which has such a small, extroverted and export-oriented economy, it is obvious that we need to have clear driving rules for how trade is going to happen. I note that the Government is putting forward an offensive policy to put the fishing industry on the map in the WTO negotiations. I'm glad. It is important that those interests are safeguarded, because after oil, the fishing industry is Norway’s largest export industry. We never have to put that away. It is clear that it is not only about further processed products, as the representative Hove mentioned earlier, it is about all exports of fishery products. We read in the Fischeribladten a short time ago that a representative of the Western salsify will link the fishing industry and abandon quotas in order to bring agricultural products into line. It seems to me to be a representation of shooting far beyond the target – it is an unsustainable coupling. It is clear that we are talking about two widely differing industries, it is not possible to have a connection between the two industries when negotiating. I also record in the Foreign Minister's statement that this is a new investment agreement, a MAI-light, to say it with a little English sling. These are direct investments on a non-discriminatory basis. It is also said that natural resources should be maintained, and it should be ensured through the MAI Agreement. I wonder how it can be done if there is an opportunity to invest in Norway, which is a nation that is totally dependent on natural resources – they are the whole reason we live up here – when it opens up investment on a non-discriminatory basis. I want to draw attention to the breeding giant Hydro, who is now going to sell out his share of farming. For Hydro's management it is desirable that it should be on foreign hands. It's the farming concessions that are sold, it's the locations on the coast that are sold, it's the coast that's actually for sale. The same applies to investments in the fishing industry. In reality, if the fishing fleet is allowed to invest in shipping companies over the stock exchange, it is the fish resources that are available for sale. How is this to be prevented? There is no other way to prevent it than to accept such investments. This must also be a cross of thought for the parties that are in favour of the abolition of the participation law, which is the only one we have in favour of free adjustment and that anyone who can buy into the industry. I have to say, I am very concerned if there is going to be an agreement that goes into order that it will be possible to buy up on a non-discriminatory basis. I have to say a few words about patents on genetically engineered material. I would also like to draw attention to Document No. My 8-proposal, which I promoted in 1997 on the establishment of a genetic institute in Tromsø, for which money was needed. And as far as the Life Patents Directive is concerned, it is frightening to me. Imagine perhaps being arrested for putting potatoes that are not approved by those who have patents on the genetic material — the potato that has rocked Norway in times of crisis! We can risk being dragged to the WTO Court because we don't have authorised potatoes to put in the ground. Then it's the gene police who'll come and stop us.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e720	First of all, I would like to refer to the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement and statements, which give the overall picture of the Government's arrangements ahead of the WTO ministerial meeting. The government is in favour of a comprehensive round of negotiations that takes care of the entire spectrum of Norwegian interests, both offensive and defensive. As in the previous round of negotiations, agricultural negotiations seem to be a key area this time too, and I would therefore like to make some comments from my position as Minister of Agriculture. The Government will enter into negotiations in line with the obligations laid down in Article 20 of the WTO Agreement on Agriculture. I am pleased with the agreement that has been given here in the Chamber to the Government's approach to agricultural negotiations in dealing with the propositions on agricultural policy, in the debate following the Minister of Foreign Affairs' previous statement and now here today. The Government’s objective is to ensure a national action space for the formulation of agricultural policy with the instruments deemed necessary for continued active agricultural production throughout the country. With regard to the so-called non-commercial considerations set out in Article 20, Norway has paid particular attention to the versatile role of agriculture, which is linked to food security, rural settlement, cultural landscapes and other environmental conditions. I refer here to Norway's emphasis on these issues also in the Uruguay Round. Food security for all citizens now and in the future is an important goal of the Government. To achieve this objective, both active and strong agriculture in Norway and a predictable and stable trading system are important. National food production must be the foundation of long-term security of supply. Agriculture manages natural resources such as land and forests in the districts and is a local industry. This gives agriculture a central place in the overall effort of the Government to maintain the main features of the housing pattern. The agricultural food industry is a significant feature of Norwegian business. The agri-food industry employs almost 33 000 people in over 1 200 enterprises, and the value creation and employment of this industry is of major importance for district policy, although parts of this industry are located in central districts. There is a crucial interdependence between primary production and the food industry. Environmental goods from agriculture include a wide range of societal values such as cultural landscapes, cultural memories, biodiversity and good plant and animal health. It is essential to focus on the whole of the management of these environmental goods. These environmental goods are created through active agriculture. The cultural heritage related to agriculture is an important part of the identity of the Norwegian people. There is a close link between active agricultural production and the preservation of cultural historical values linked to agriculture. The multifaceted societal tasks of agriculture mean that agriculture, in addition to producing food and other goods and services, also contributes to the production of these important common resources. The production of the common good is largely linked to active farming throughout the country. The contribution of agriculture to individual social goods cannot be assessed separately, and the Government will therefore focus on the total effect. I also refer to the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hansen,'s emphasis on agriculture as an active tool for achieving objectives in other policy areas in the debate, as explained earlier by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I would like to underline the importance of reaching an acceptable starting point for the forthcoming negotiations on agriculture in the WTO, so that the need for national action spaces for the formulation of agricultural policy can be met. Such a space of action is essential for the care of these important considerations I have now mentioned. In order to ensure this space for action, a broad range of instruments is needed which include production-oriented support. From the Norwegian side, the protection of imports is an important and necessary part of agricultural policy. As Minister of Agriculture, of course, I note that the farmers in the agricultural industry are very concerned about these issues we are discussing today, which are crucial to the framework conditions for this industry in the future. Framework conditions that provide income opportunities are essential for the recruitment of industry. The risk of young people investing in agriculture is essential to ensure that we can have an active agricultural holding throughout the country. The Government will work actively to safeguard Norwegian interests in the forthcoming negotiations on agriculture as in other areas. This, of course, is the starting point for all the countries in these negotiations. I would like to stress, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has explained, that Norway is not alone in emphasising the versatile role of agriculture. In preparation for the ministerial meeting, there has been close cooperation in Geneva in the informal group of countries called ‘friends of multi-functionality’. This group consists of EU, Japan, South Korea, Switzerland and Norway. These countries have made joint proposals in the mandate negotiations. A number of countries place great emphasis on the many tasks of agriculture, the so-called non-commercial considerations and the continuation of the balance of the agreed mandate for new negotiations laid down in Article 20 of the present agricultural agreement. The so-called Cairns countries, as stated by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, have made proposals that go beyond this agreed mandate. It is vital for a small country like Norway that we can have heavy allies in these negotiations. The EU and Japan are both major economic actors internationally. The concept of culture, tradition and employment in rural, cultural and other environmental conditions is central to all ‘multi-functional countries’, which emphasises that it must also be possible in the future for different types of agriculture and agricultural production to exist around the world. Japan and South Korea place crucial emphasis on food security and the importance of national food production, while the EU is a significant exporter in the agricultural sector. The need to continue a wide range of instruments to fulfil the many tasks of agriculture is underlined by all these countries. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement, the Government will continue to maintain close contact with like-minded countries in this area as well. During my visit to Japan and Korea, I got a very clear demonstration of the importance these countries attach to the versatile role of agriculture, especially in food security, including safe food. This emphasis was further confirmed in meetings which I also had with the agricultural committees in the parliaments, which underlined a cross-political agreement on these issues. Both Japan and Korea are, like Norway, net importers of agricultural products. I refer to the Foreign Minister's statement and what has been said there about the relationship with developing countries. Developing countries are not a uniform group of countries, nor are they in the field of agriculture. However, they are very concerned about ensuring the implementation of agreements already concluded. Developing countries are also committed to ensuring that they maintain flexibility in designing their national policies and that industrialised countries contribute to trade-related and other assistance. With regard to the demand for improved access to the markets of the industrialized countries, I refer here to the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement of the Government's position in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e756	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e759	The Labour Party has given, and also today gives, the Government support to the negotiating strategy adopted in relation to agriculture and the forthcoming WTO negotiations. This includes, inter alia: focus on this with the production of collective goods. At the same time, it is also very important that we are aware and precise that Article 20 provides a clear description of the direction, namely that we are faced with significant, gradual reductions in support and protection measures also towards agriculture. And as the Foreign Minister summed up in his statement: the parties must be expected to go beyond the existing commitments in the negotiations. The earlier we take this inward, the less the danger that the agricultural industry will suddenly one day face sudden changes and major, severe changes. And the industry itself is very concerned about this when they call for long-term, predictable framework conditions. My question to the Minister of Agriculture is this: does the Minister of Agriculture, with what he now knows, see the need for us to start a conversion of parts of Norwegian agricultural policy, as a result of what we can rightly expect to result from the forthcoming WTO round?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e768	First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased with the confirmation by the representative Hanssen of support for the strategy and the approach taken by the Government in relation to agriculture in relation to the negotiations. I would like to underline the understanding of Article 20, which says that the long-term objective is to achieve significant, gradual reductions in support and protection measures. It is a gradual reduction in the long term. It is a little uncertain where one ends up in this round of negotiations, and it will be part of the process that one has to deal with in the Government as the negotiations progress. When it comes to building a robust enough farm to meet this very challenging situation, the government is aiming to get back to it in the context of the message we want to promote for the Storting before Christmas. This can happen in a number of areas: in relation to the adjustment of prices, but at the same time within the targets set by the Stortinget that we should have an agricultural policy throughout the country, and what we have said is that you should have an income that allows you to obtain recruitment. I believe that everyone is aware of the challenges facing an overall increase in the achievement of the objectives of Norwegian agriculture in the area of action that we want internationally, but also within the space of action that we had to have nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e777	The Gjøns Council of State made a strong contribution on behalf of the Norwegian agricultural industry to safeguard the Norwegian agricultural interests in these WTO negotiations. He showed interestingly enough for his trip to the Far East – to Japan and Korea – and was quite right that we can compare ourselves to these countries in terms of being large net importers of agricultural products. But it is also the only comparison that belongs to this debate. What the Minister of Agriculture sovereignly forgot to remember, if you compare Norway and these two nations, is that the strength ratio is quite different; Norway is the world’s largest exporter of seafood. And that is the starting point that is forgotten in this debate. The statements of the Minister of Agriculture show, in my opinion, that it is becoming less and less clear what is the Government's objective and starting point for these negotiations that we are in. I have to ask the following question: does the Minister of Agriculture not see that the conflict between the Norwegian requirements for exemptions for the agricultural sector can be at the expense of the export interests of the fishing industry? And does the Minister of Agriculture not see that, with our eyes open, we are helping to reduce the possibility of Norwegian fishing industries having the same framework conditions as other export industries?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e790	First, I would like to clarify that the government's task is to take care of Norwegian interests, including Norwegian agricultural interests. But we also have a national interest in maintaining agriculture with an agricultural production of food and the common interests as well. And then it turns out that Norway is special about having both defensive and offensive interests, and then we can't deny that Japan is a country we can compare with, because if it's a country we can compare with, then it has to be Japan that also has export interests to a relatively large extent, and that's an economic power in the world context. I believe that the vast majority of countries will now be committed to taking care of their overall interests in the start-up phase of the negotiations. I would find it, I think, quite unreasonable if a government today should say that Norway is willing to state its interests, and defensive interests on the agricultural side, in order possibly to prioritise other areas. It is possible that the Right is already willing to give that signal today. That would be interesting. We have said from the Government that here it is possible to take care of both their offensive interests and their defensive interests. I therefore find it unreasonable to make such a claim in relation to the Government's arrangements in this area. We are prepared to fight for the fishing interests, and we are also prepared to fight for the agricultural interests in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e799	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e802	In this article, I will concentrate mainly on the agricultural policy challenges associated with the forthcoming WTO round of negotiations. The main point of my speech will be this: the Minister of Foreign Affairs last made a statement on the forthcoming WTO negotiations in Stortinget, I expressed in the debate on behalf of the Workers' Party that we supported the government's negotiating positions on this point. The same thing is going to be the angle of incidence in my post also this time. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, the agricultural sector is an area on which we are obliged to negotiate. The Uruguay Round gave us a separate agricultural agreement. Article 20 of this Agreement sets out a clear objective of achieving significant, gradual reductions in support and protection measures. At the same time, it is clear that further negotiations will take into account, inter alia: experience gained in the implementation of the existing agreement and in so-called non-commercial aspects. The government indicates that it is largely based on the negotiating strategy of the Harlem Brundtland government in the previous round of negotiations. This implies that Norwegian emphasis will be placed on the multi-faceted tasks of agriculture, the production of collective goods by agriculture — what is now referred to as the ‘multi-functional role of agriculture’. The Labour Party therefore endorses this negotiating strategy. Norwegian agriculture is now playing a crucial role in Norwegian district policy. It must be an objective for the forthcoming WTO negotiations to provide a space for action in the formulation of national agricultural and rural policies. On a number of occasions, a large majority in the United Kingdom have stated that they want Norwegian agriculture spread throughout the country, that agriculture should be used as an instrument in addition to the obvious task of producing food. Agriculture shall ensure settlement and living rural communities. Agriculture shall contribute to maintaining the cultural landscape. Not least with this background, it is natural for Norway to bet on a small scale, sustainable and rural friendly agriculture. If we are to continue to implement this policy, we will depend on strong import protection, and we must still have the opportunity to support our agriculture. And in sum, this is largely about good food preparation. The best agricultural areas in Norway are for climatic reasons in some parts of the country. Agriculture policy provides the basis for all parts of the country to produce food in crisis situations. At the same time, however, we must bear in mind the clear objective of a gradual reduction in the agricultural transfers provided for in Article 20 of the WTO Agreement on Agriculture. And the Labour Party agrees with the Foreign Minister’s assessment when he concludes: ‘The parties must be expected to go beyond the existing commitments in the negotiations’. We can certainly expect that the forthcoming WTO negotiations will lead to changes in Norwegian agricultural policy. Not least, there is reason to be concerned about our access to market regulation through subsidised exports. And Norwegian agriculture already has major overproduction problems. Further tightening the export potential would exacerbate this situation. In its presentation, the Minister of Foreign Affairs also clarified the Government’s position on the issue of market access from the poorest countries, the so-called MUL countries. The Labour Party agrees that, in any case, EU zero-duty proposals are supported by the Norwegian side as they exist, which means a system of security mechanisms and no binding of zero-duty duties. We also support the Foreign Minister's clarification here today to be able to accept zero-toll binding, but then provided sufficient security mechanism.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e826	In today's trade regime, we need to be aware that exports of services already account for a quarter of the total Norwegian exports. It concerns services from the offshore sector, from the shipping sector, from the telecommunications and IT sectors. In this context, it is very important that we also put in place a negotiating regime in the terms ‘services’ and ‘investment’ that is capable of caring for Norwegian interests. Furthermore, Erik Solheim asked a relevant question earlier in the debate. He's asked some questions lately, but at least this was very interesting. It goes on: What is the government's priority in these negotiations? I think that this issue has emerged less and less as the debate has progressed. In March of this year, then Secretary of State Haga of the Nations wrote that our significant interests in agriculture must weigh heavily on developing Norwegian negotiating positions. When some interests in such a context are to weigh heavily, it often means that other Norwegian interests such as fish and industry weigh less heavily. In this case, the government is on a collision course with what a unanimous nutrition committee said when examining the forecast notification for the fishing industry earlier this year, asking for increased free trade in fishery products to be prioritised in the forthcoming WTO round. The Committee then unanimously stated that ‘special attention should be paid to the liquidation or restriction of the use of anti-dumping provisions in the WTO Agreement and not to the minimisation of tariff barriers to trade’. A binding multilateral regulatory framework, based on the freest trade relationship in as many areas as possible, where disputes are settled by international bodies, is evident in the interests of Norway. In concrete terms, this means that Norway is well served by the widest possible scope of the forthcoming round of negotiations. Then I asked the Minister of Agriculture a question. Instead of answering the question about the conflict between agriculture and fish, I got a question back on what is the right starting point for agriculture. I'll come back to that if the time permits. After listening to more articles in the debate, my question is: Where has the Minister for Fisheries been? Where are the Minister for Fisheries and the spokespersons for the fishing industry in this debate? I have not seen any of them so far. It's quite obvious that you can't put a blanket over this conflict situation. It should be unnecessary to remind the government that we currently have a level of meat production in Norway of 250,000 tonnes per year. The total level of salmon and trout production is double. In the case of Norwegian fish production, we produce and export today values of about 30 billion kroner a year. It is expected that this level will reach approx. DKK 40 billion per year. years after we have reached 2004. Careful indications say that when this existing WTO round ends in 2015, the annual export value of Norwegian fish will be around DKK 100 billion. Sintef has even said that if everything goes as well as it can and should go in the industry that is going to take over the value creation in Norway and lubricating the treasury, you can have an annual export value of around NOK 250 billion. If you lose this perspective, you make a fundamental mistake. We are talking about the export of Norwegian fish that, when this negotiation period is over, has passed NOK 1000 billion in export value, versus allowing the debate to be dominated by how to protect ourselves from imports of agricultural products from third countries. This debate has become full of paradoxes. I think it is reasonable for the government not to pursue a policy that makes you play yourself out completely, and for the special points to be allowed to dominate in the forthcoming negotiations. Unfortunately, we are no major force in this area. First of all, we have to find out what we should prioritise, and in a nation that then until those degrees are totally dependent on selling its goods and services in an international market, we have to give priority now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e845	There is considerable concern about the forthcoming WTO negotiations. 1114 organisations from many countries have written a joint letter expressing their concern about the effects of today’s contract work and about what may be adopted. 27 of these organisations are Norwegian. It is very positive that the Development and Environment Forum, which represents many of the organisations, has been invited to attend the official Norwegian delegation at the WTO Council of Ministers in Seattle. It's not strange that it's so troubled. The previous round, which started with GATT and ended with the WTO, took decisions with far-reaching consequences, which in many areas went beyond what was expected at the start of the negotiations. At the same time, many other trends work in the same direction and give trade and participation more and more rights of way in relation to, for example: environmental interests and health and nutrition considerations for the poorest. I therefore think it is quite appropriate for the Stortinget to ask the Government to help the WTO to make an impact assessment of the agreements already concluded, as proposed by SV. It is important that such a powerful organisation can demonstrate that the organisation’s positive objectives are in focus, and that is the purpose that is also listed in the Adultås Declaration. Such documentation should, in my view, be available before deciding whether to include new themes in the contract work. I believe that in such an assessment it has to be given a decisive emphasis on whether the agreement has contributed to better access to and preferably cheaper food for the poorest in India, or whether that is the opposite that has happened. That very relationship – whether the poorest in the poorest countries get worse or better – I think is the most important test piece for the WTO. Let me remind you of one of the very many others who have meant the same thing before. On 2 April 1996, Aslak Bonde wrote in the Evening Post: "In a hundred years' time, historians may not want to present the fall of the Berlin Wall as the greatest event in the 1980s. Perhaps they will focus on Ronald Reagan and the US initiative in the GATT negotiations to get full free trade in food. Was it the beginning of a process in which humans – in naive belief in progress and science – ruin their own livelihood?’ Such an important issue – whether we improve or worsen our life base through the WTO – cannot be left unanswered. There have been attempts in this debate and in the public debate to break down our negotiating requirements into offensive negotiating requirements and defensive special interests. I am very surprised that it is taking responsibility for 50 pst. of our food supply – not to increase our import dependency at the expense of countries that have food shortages and little to buy food for – will be manufactured as ‘defensive’. Norway needs a continued high degree of freedom of action to pursue a policy that enables us to maintain the food production we have, under our climate and in the terrain of our food production. It is incomprehensible to me that it is ‘defensive’ to take such a national responsibility when the same business pursues vital societal goals related to housing, the conservation of diversity of species, the preservation of cultural traditions, improved access to recreation and natural experiences and, not least, safe access to healthy food produced in a sustainable way. I do not think it is defensive to demand freedom to provide protection in an area where we need it, and where other countries should be able to demand the same – i.e. the right and obligation to meet a certain proportion of the population's calorie needs. Let me briefly remind you why in some other areas there has been no need for such support and protection as our agriculture needs today. By demanding and obtaining exclusive rights to fishing resources in a sea area that is optimally natural, our fishing industry has economic benefits – often called privileges – of very large dimensions. I do not think it is natural in such a situation to ask for relief in customs posts for fish products if they have to be paid with reduced opportunities to maintain basic agricultural production. I'm proud of our fishermen and the industry for which they are based, and that's a very necessary protection we've been given. I think we have great opportunities in the future, if we do not negotiate away our right to protect our marine resources. Then, among other things, I see on the investment agreement, which may represent a threat to the maintenance of those specific rights. Similarly, our strict legal regulations have excluded foreigners from the oil industry. Many businesses in this industry have grown strong and are now facing free competition. Our power regime, which provided cheap power, was for a long time a protective umbrella for businesses that are today industrial locomotives, and that without such a development paraplegic would never have seen the light of day. I am proud that we have created a favourable development climate for many important industries over the last generations. These industries must not forget the benefits they have had for a long time, but which agriculture still needs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e865	WTO negotiations and their outcome will have a major impact on Norwegian conditions. We have a long-term country, with a sort of extreme climate, at least in parts of the country. Therefore, there will be a need to set objectives other than production performance alone. Environmental considerations, social conditions and busteting must be included. In this way, it is necessary. providing content in the scope of ‘multi-functional agriculture’. In fact, we can also talk about a ‘multi-functional fishing industry’, as this industry is helping to meet the central objective that there should be a basis for people to live in the whole country. My concern in this evening's debate is precisely the fishing industry. In that context, I must say that I am really concerned about the signal effect that it gives that the Minister for Fisheries has not given priority to attending the evening meeting. Norwegian fishing industry has ours and is an international industry. In ten years the export value of Norwegian fish is double. The export of fish is now about 9.1 pst. of total Norwegian exports – DKK 28 billion in 1998. At the same time, the industry is virtually free of subsidies. There is reason to believe that this industry can get even greater value in the years to come, if we sympathize with this resource in a resilient way. Norway is one of those countries with a particular interest in ensuring that WTO legislation ensures the best possible market access, level playing field and framework conditions. Norwegian seafood is exported to 150 countries and to an increasing number of countries not covered by our regional agreements, the EFTA Convention and the EEA Agreement. It is the duty of the individual countries in the WTO to regulate trade conditions for Norwegian fish. The needs of the fishing industry are particularly linked to generally better market access through reduced tariffs and non-tariff barriers to trade, the improvement of the anti-dumping agreement and the simplification of trade procedures and customs procedures that can contribute to the smoother and unhindered trade between countries. The international framework conditions will be decisive for growth and further expansion of Norwegian fish in a tough international food market. There are several relationships that suggest that Norway provides market access for fish and fish products a central position in the Norwegian negotiations. One study shows that 1 000 tonnes of salmon for the processing industry provide work for 30 people. In 1998, some 195 000 tonnes of whole and frozen salmon were exported. In view of the fact that this is a district industry, it is easy to see that market access is decisive for busses in many coastal areas. There is reason to point out that, in addition to being an industry of its own, many live by combining agriculture, fisheries and other industries. Lack of market access is what can hinder the further growth of Norwegian fishing industries, a growth that can and should help us to finance the welfare state of which we are so proud. There is reason to recall that fish is one of the most protected areas in world trade, and trade in fish and fish products is subject to a number of trade barriers. Norway for its part has free imports of fish. It is a general problem that the processed product meets the main barriers to trade. In turn, this can prevent Norway from going from being a commodity supplier to become a supplier of more processed products. The consequence of not processing is that we have to look a lot for all the jobs that we should have had on the basis of our raw material. This will be an incurable harm to Norway. Just because Norway is such a big fish exporter, it is a grotto for creating barriers to trade in the different countries with which we trade. Had Norway been a small exporter, we would not have met with dumping complaints in time and out of time. It is a crutch of thought that our farming industry has been so competitive and effective over the last 10 years that it is forced by its competitors to limit efficiency through regulation, feed quotas and minimum prices. The WTO round of negotiations gives us a unique opportunity to improve the conditions for access to the fish market. It is crucial that Norwegian authorities provide sufficient resources for consultation to ensure that negotiations before fish are handled in a defensive manner. It also needs to facilitate the creation of alliances with countries with the same interest in market access for fish that Norway has. It is highly desirable that Norway should give priority to a viable and value-creating industry such as the fishing industry, which at the same time has a multi-functional aspect. There will be a disaster if the Norwegian government fails to give this industry the highest priority in the future negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e891	The Minister for Foreign Affairs made a clear and clear statement, and I also think the debate here has been neat and straightforward. But it is partly that the contradictions are greater both in the WTO and in this room than what emerges, for many of the issues debated here are harmless because you are so early in the process that you don't know which positions will ultimately be what will be, we should say, the resistance. We see that as well as Norwegian positions, where the contrast between agriculture and fish is evident from a lot of speakers here from the pulpit. Let me try to problem some of the things that are perceived as controversial, that have been harmless so far in the debate. But first of all, it is clear that Norway, as a small nation, is well served to have an open economy. This means that we will essentially be served by a WTO agreement, but we are not served by any WTO agreement, because we need to lay down driving rules that also interest Norway – but not just Norway, especially developing countries. It also means that the perspectives on the environment, human rights and, in particular, labour standards are crucial if we are to make an open economy work. It is one of the most important things about the WTO agreement, at my discretion, that the WTO agreement is not being used to torpedo other international agreements. It may apply in particular in the field of the environment, but it may also apply within the scope of labour standards. Let me take a couple of the questions that are obviously controversial, and that are far more controversial than what comes out so far in this room. Investments, which have been discussed a lot, are controversial, not because they are investments, but because they want to create an international framework around them. What was at issue in the previous round, including: if it was possible to have national derogations — if each nation could say that this is such an important area for us that it is not to be included in the so-called MAI agreement. Norway had a whole series of such derogations, like all other countries, because for some countries, some sectors are more important than others. If you can put that kind of exemption list into such an investment agreement, you also have no investment agreement, and that means that it would hardly be possible to go very far in such a direction. What that also means is that there must be some solution mechanisms that are perceived to be balanced. So far it hasn't turned out that they are, but that doesn't mean again that investment is wrong. What that means is that you have to get a framework around what didn't look to those degrees that favors the strong market players. In any case, I am glad that the Foreign Minister now says that the MAI agreement and what was in it is ridiculous. I hope that results in correctness, and that other nations too perceive that this is the situation. Another controversial issue is the question of public procurement. It is clear that too many nations are a very important part of the national economy, a much more important piece than it is in Norway. In Norway, the proportion of ‘roughly’ is 20 pst. GDP. In many countries it can be completely 50-70 pst. GDP. This means that transparency around such agreements is important, but not necessarily that there is free market access for large Norwegian companies, for example. to enter u-land. There must therefore be possibilities for national protection, and, as far as I know, it is not in this draft mandate. Of course, all environmental issues are controversial, and one reason for this is that the main idea of the WTO is globalised trade, which in itself leads to more transport. Transport itself is one of the biggest environmental problems we have. It is clear that when products become cheaper, which is the whole point of the WTO agreement, they inevitably lead to more transport. But not only that is a significant environmental problem. What is also there and that has been said about patents on life and those kinds of questions is crucial, and I am also pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was so very clear on Norwegian positions related to it. But there are greater environmental dangers in this, and not least in what is associated with genetically modified products, where the Norwegian position is fortunately very good, but where one has strong actors, not least the United States, which has a completely different starting point. The point is that this is a content of conflict that will manifest itself in Seattle, which has already done so, and which is far more profound and profound than what has so far emerged in the debate. Also, the relationship with the MUL – the poorest countries in the world – is only a significant problem in this room, some of which want them to have free access to the Norwegian market for agricultural products, while those who have roots in the agricultural industry like to see mechanisms in place to avoid imbalances in the Norwegian market. But that is the kind of action we should obviously take from the Norwegian side to give a handshake to those at the very bottom of the table. Let me just finish: what also goes on openness is a problem, and I'm glad of what the Foreign Minister said there. But unfortunately, it is the fewest countries that have that position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e908	The WTO – three letters that surprisingly many people do not know what it stands for. I've even talked to quite a number of socially involved people who are not familiar with these three letters, and much less the importance that the organization can have for the world's citizens in the future. This is a kind of global EEA agreement. One of the reasons I interfered with this debate is a conversation or a discussion that I attended many years ago. The discussion at the time: How could World War II start? One of the arguments put forward by an elderly man with great power and experience, and which I later thought about, was his claim that the depression and unemployment of the 1920s led to many countries starting to protect their own industries. This, in turn, led to a halt in trade, and some countries may have served a short time on it. But as trade stopped, unemployment hit a lot of countries, and beyond the 1930s, this intensified further. Unemployment and dissatisfaction caused the cry for a strong leader. I'm not a historian, but it was perhaps the restriction on trade between countries that was one of the reasons for World War II. So, in my opinion, protectionism is a very dangerous idea. Everyone is served with an open and free trade. The advantage of one country is exploited, and the advantage of another country is exploited best in their country. This applies not least to small countries. Such open trade requires clear driving rules and an organisation that monitors and condemns countries that pursue protectionism and subsidise in some way. That's why it's wrong what someone claims, that the WTO is a free trade organisation. No, the WTO is rules, control, laws and equal competition. There will be a three-four-year debate on the content of laws and regulations. In my opinion, the rules need to focus on the environment and workers' rights, so as to avoid social dumping, as well as increased living standards, full employment, sustainable development and respect for developing countries. Let me say something about agriculture, which is an important topic in this debate. What is clear is that very many countries want free trade in food, and many of these countries are important countries, such as the United States. But what is most important morally is that almost all developing countries want a freer world trade in food. It is not possible to achieve without reducing or removing customs duties. The fact that Norway’s delegation to the negotiations on the mandate will act in a constructive and flexible manner is a credit to the Government. What too many may seem like a paradox is that the EU is becoming Norway’s main partner in the fight to maintain non-commercial relations in agriculture. It is important that there is access to sustaining subsidies for multifunctional agriculture, i.e. rural settlement, environment, food preparedness and living cultural landscapes. It is important to ensure national action spaces for agricultural policy. I support the Government's approach and believe it is important to have negotiations on as broad a basis as possible. Narrow negotiations around few themes often create many losers and a bad result.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e921	Technological development and a general acceptance of the market economy system have given us an increasingly globalised world economy. Enterprises, jobs, the environment and our well-being are increasingly affected by factors outside our country. Enterprises are linked in cross-border value chains, and this development gives us a governance problem, where national states can easily be played out against each other even if they share a number of basic values. If we are to ensure sustainable development that takes more account of the environment and provides security and justice for individuals, we cannot leave development to the market alone. Last year, foreign trade amounted to 80 pst. of Norway’s gross domestic product. For Norway, which is a small country with a relatively large share of world trade, international legislation is particularly important. And it is essential that these rules of the game become as good and as binding as possible. Trade policy plays an important role in peace and trust for nations by contributing to the build-up of political conflicts between countries and establishing agreed games so that trade conflicts can be resolved in a civilised and rule-based manner. And in this way, I strongly subscribe to what Gunnar Halvorsen's representative said in the previous article. The World Trade Organisation, the WTO, has a key role to play in establishing global rules. The expansion of the WTO will contribute to the further involvement of the outside world in the global trading system. This, in turn, will contribute to increased prosperity in the candidate countries, thereby reducing poverty and tensions. In particular, it will be important for the world’s trading system to become members of countries such as China and Russia. There has been strong criticism of the WTO from some quarters before the ministerial meeting, with allegations that trade law is both undemocratic, anti-territorial and counterproductive. I believe much of the criticism is due to the fact that many have perceived the work of the WTO as being in secret and difficult for the public. It is therefore important that Norway, both nationally and internationally, strive to maximise transparency in the forthcoming negotiations. It is an important contribution to creating greater confidence in the WTO. When the new WTO negotiations begin, Norway will provide a wide range of interests and values to be taken care of. In most industrial sectors, we want to improve market access for Norwegian products by giving Norwegian companies the same competitive conditions as companies from larger and more powerful countries. At the same time, we must ensure that important considerations, such as the environment, health and district development, are not weakened, but rather strengthened in a globalised economy. Agriculture also plays an important role in Norwegian business, which goes beyond the production of food and therefore needs the necessary protection. Special attention must also be paid to developing countries. As with most other WTO countries, we thus face a challenge of balancing these different interests against each other. This is both legitimate and normal. It requires Norwegian authorities and businesses to strongly defend our interests, whether they are defensive or offensive. Let me briefly mention some areas where Norwegian business has significant interests. Approximately one quarter of Norwegian exports consist of services. It is therefore important to negotiate all services sectors. We are in favour of further liberalisation of international shipping services and related offshore services, telecommunications and IT-related services as well as environmental services. Foreign shipping is worth 50 billion kroner for half of our service exports. It is therefore essential that we ensure open and predictable market conditions for our merchant fleet. In order to ensure better framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises in international markets, it is important to move towards reduced customs barriers. This will contribute to value creation in Norway, secure existing jobs and create new ones. As the world's largest exporter of seafood to a value of nearly SEK 30 billion, a reduction in customs duties on these products will have a major impact on the Norwegian economy. In particular, it will be about reducing customs duties on processed fishery products to some of our most central markets. Improved market access for fish will be crucial for not least many small and medium-sized enterprises, which form a central part of the economic base of District Norway. Fish and fish products are subject to trade restrictions in very many countries. Therefore, active Norwegian intervention is required to improve market access for these products. Norway also has clear interests in lower customs duties over a number of other products, such as machinery, chemicals, tea products and IT products. I am concerned that we will come much further in the next round in terms of improving market access for goods. Globalisation has increased the international dimension of competition policy. The reduction of barriers to trade makes it more tempting for both companies and countries to conclude anti-competitive agreements. These may have a negative impact on trade and market access. It is in the interests of Norwegian industry that the forthcoming negotiations should cover the development of framework conditions in the field of competition policy. Norway shall be a driver for the next round of WTO negotiations to become a green round. It is important that trade legislation takes into account key principles that lead to goods and the polluter pays. We will place the crucial emphasis on further developing and improving the WTO Agreement so that it takes greater account of social, health, consumer and environmental policy considerations. It is also essential to meet the specific needs of poor developing countries. The trading system needs to be complemented by measures to address environmental and poverty problems in the world. If we succeed in this, it will provide a good foundation for trade to contribute to global well-being and thus to stable framework conditions for our business. The WTO shall not be an organisation to solve environmental problems. They need to be solved nationally and through international cooperation, such as: in the case of international environmental agreements. Nevertheless, we must ensure that the respective legislation does not conflict with each other. They must mutually support each other, be legally consistent and seek to contribute to sustainable development. In a globalised economy, exports and increased investment will be important drivers of economic development. One of the challenges for the forthcoming WTO round is that it must be acceptable to developing countries. It is essential for the credibility of the system that developing countries, and in particular the least developed countries, are effectively guaranteed better market access for their products. In addition, the poorest countries need more technical assistance to effectively benefit from the legislation. With a small and open economy, Norway has benefited from international trade being governed by strong multilateral legislation based on non-discrimination. We need multilateral trade legislation that balances the interests of large and small, poor and rich countries. With 135 member countries and a solid competence, no organisation other than the WTO is better equipped for this task. Furthermore, the strength of the WTO from small countries is that the organisation always takes its decisions unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e955	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e958	I must first get the Minister of Industry pink because he got an unlikely number of points in his ten-minute post. There he was largely concerned with all the different concerns that one must weigh on each other in the negotiations, and it is quite clear that these negotiations will take a very long time if we are to achieve everything. What might be missing is a signal about what would count most if it were to start looking at it. It's not certain that all of the good wishes we have give us full coverage. In this context, I would like to return to the fishing industry, which I am pleased that the Minister of Industry was involved in his contribution. He talked about Norway being particularly dependent on international players, and he talked about that we need the same competitive conditions as other countries. Then my question is quite specific: in what row does the Minister of Industry want to place the fishing industry if it is going to start to clean up?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e966	I'll first give my support to the replicator's view that there are complicated contexts. This means that it is not as easy to have simplified entrances into such a difficult and complex round of negotiations as the one we are about to enter into now. That is why we, on the part of the Government, have put such a decisive emphasis on the benefits of having a broad round of negotiations, because it provides a number of larger and wider registers to play on where different interests can be weighed against each other. There has been a trend in the debate today to make a point of putting Norway's defensive agricultural interests up against our offensive fishing interests. At least it may not be in Norwegian interest to make this a starting point, where we have an entire register of interests and different subject areas to play against. Because it must be in our obvious interest that we are able both to take care of what so many people subscribe to, the need to provide framework conditions that enable us to have a Norwegian agricultural policy, which is a prerequisite for having a Norwegian agriculture, while at the same time being able to achieve new opportunities for our fishing industries. It has also been made a point that the Minister for Fisheries is not present in this debate. Of course, it would be the Minister for Fisheries if he had not now been in Brussels to coordinate our positions with the EU just ahead of the WTO negotiations. So it has a good reason, which I think is very good for Norwegian fishing interests, and which also means that we have to get good results for a fishing industry that we know we have to live more and more of in the future, when oil and gas revenues will decrease.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e975	The Minister of Industry had a thorough review of the role of the WTO and the challenges facing it now. The Minister of Industry said that the distortion of competition should, of course, try to weaken the negotiations that are coming and the developments that will take place in the future, and he was concerned about environmental issues. He was at all within a wide range of the central and important questions. Within ten minutes, even a Council of State cannot reach everything, but I assume that there was no deeper meaning in the fact that the Council of State did not mention this with the professional rights. At least I did not get the understanding that there was a special emphasis in the posts of the Council of State. It is that international trade and everything that goes with it affect most of the life of a society, nationally and internationally. It has a significance and impact in very, very many areas. This with the professional rights, the lives of employees and the offers they must have, the rights they must have in their production, will be of importance, including, of course, competition. But I would like to ask the Minister of Industry what importance he and the Government attach to this part of the negotiations before us.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e980	This is, in particular, an issue that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has raised in an excellent way earlier today. There is no doubt that when Norway participates in complicated negotiations like this, we take Norwegian values and Norwegian interests across a wide range. Taking care of professional and social rights is crucial in such a context, and Norway, of course, will also be brought up in different contexts as negotiations progress. I think the representative should feel safe about that. It is also true that industrial interests are linked to the fact that these considerations enter into an international trade regime such as this, because Norwegian companies will not be interested in contributing to the spread of competitors around the world which, by means of unacceptable working conditions, make it impossible to produce products to the world market which have in themselves costs representing acceptable professional and social conditions. These are views and basic values that the Government will of course include in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e987	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e990	The Minister for Foreign Affairs has clearly summarised the starting point of the WTO negotiations starting in Seattle. I want to spend some time pointing to the challenges of food production, and the security that it will have after this round in Norway so that we can produce and translate safe agricultural food. One of the major challenges, including: The EU and Norway have common interests, are in the field of genetic engineering. The debate as well as the debate as well as the debate as well as the debate as well as the debate as well as the debate as well as the debate as well as the debate as well as the debate as well as the debate as well as the debate as well as the debate as well as the debate as well as the debate as well as the debate as well as the debate as well as the debate as the debate as well as the Health and environmental organisations are very sceptical about the long-term effects of twitching with the genetic material on soya and maize, etc. An article in the Evening Post of October 7 this year shows that 35 p.m. of maize and 50 pst. soya produced in the United States is so-called genetically engineered. So the natural question is, how long will we have the choice to buy naturally produced cereals and feed grains? The objective of the rounds of negotiations we are now entering must be to ensure that the WTO takes on the responsibility of ensuring that safe food and feed materials are distributed across borders. The pre-goods principle is strong in Norway. If you want to be consistent in this area, you will not get away with animal diseases that can infect humans. I'm thinking of being a coward. Back to the Evening Post, this time from August 30: The United Kingdom has had a total of 176 000 cases of this sinister disease since 1985. Strong measures such as slaughter have led to the epidemic in the British islands now on the way. But the opposite is true of mainland Europe. After the paper I mentioned, 1 000 cases have been identified this year, broken down into several countries in the EU. This will give you several choices, still after the Evening Post. In the United States and Canada, there is a ban on giving blood to people who have stayed for a longer period in the British Isles. Altogether, this represents 550,000 donors who are blacklisted. Similar prohibitions were evaluated in Japan and Australia. I have to say, I have to make an impression of such actual information. That is why I fully agree with Mr Vollebæk's statement that there is a great deal at stake in the run-up to these negotiations. My hope is that countries like South Korea, Japan, Switzerland and Norway can have an impact on the agenda. It will provide a starting point for what we are concerned about in this area: safe food, the environment and districts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e1011	The biggest environmental threat we're facing is that the differences between the rich and the poor are increasing and increasing. If we are to face the enormous environmental problems that the earth is actually facing, we must work actively to contribute to the development of the poor countries. That is why it is great that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in his statement to the Grand Duchy, said that one of the two main objectives of the government's forthcoming negotiations is to further develop the trading system, so that it takes better account of the situation of developing countries. He actually said it even stronger a little later in the presentation: ‘Overall objectives for WTO work and the new round of negotiations are increased living standards, full employment, sustainable development, protection of the environment and the concerns of developing countries.’ I would like to emphasise just that: the aim of Norway is to work for the WTO to contribute to development in developing countries. But the World Trade Organisation is not a herbal company, nor is anyone here in the hall who believes. Nor is the WTO an organisation in which the Member States have the primary objective of being kind to each other. The WTO is a trade organisation. The aim is to arrive at some driving rules for trade, and that is of course good. But when you go to the WTO to negotiate, at least most countries have the main objective: what can we do? Of course, there is nothing wrong with that either, and it has to be said that the government on behalf of Norway should promote Norwegian interests related to agriculture, fish, Norwegian ownership, etc. So the Foreign Minister also says that the first of two main objectives is to facilitate Norwegian business. The second main objective is to further develop the trading system, taking better account of the situation of developing countries. My point should hopefully be quite clear: we have to assume that, in some questions, our national interests will conflict with the interests of the developing countries. It may also happen that what we think will be good action, for example. environmental requirements are measures to which developing countries are either opposed or sceptical. When I use environmental requirements as an example, it's not random. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement: ‘Most developing countries, and some developed countries, fear that environmental considerations are used as a shell for the introduction of green protectionism.’ Even here, where the objective, environmental standards, is noble, there is therefore a conflict between Norway and the developing countries. There is a conflict with the objective of taking account of developing countries. At least it has to be called a paradox, and it makes it clear that we are facing a complex challenge. My appeal to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is therefore that Norway is actively working to ensure that the WTO continuously assesses the consequences of what we are negotiating for the environment and development. I have my daily work in the Church, Education and Research Committee, and it may be natural to compare this with the accompanying research that we have had in parallel with some educational reforms. As regards the environment, it must be stated that, through the World Trade Organisation, we must not weaken requirements anchored in international environmental agreements. If in such an evaluation, if such an impact assessment shows that we do not come closer to the objectives of the international environmental policy as set out in international environmental agreements, and if it turns out that we do not come closer to the objective of combating poverty set in the UN, it should be natural to adjust the course of the WTO negotiations. I hope the Government seizes the opportunity offered by these negotiations to take on the responsibility of bridge builders between the countries of the country and the developing world. Norway is a small country with an open economy, but we are also a country with traditions to play an active role internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e1041	The regulatory time for the Storting meeting has now come to an end. The President will propose that negotiations continue until the current map has been finalised – and is of the opinion that it is acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e1044	Just as national states are governed by a set of laws, national states must have legislation to regulate the trading system. In the view of the Centre Party, it is important that powerful states are governed by international legislation. From this point of view, the Centre Party is in favour of a WTO legislation which takes account of the special needs of all countries and where not only the large ones can proceed as they wish. I refer to the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement stressing the need for attention to be paid to the situation of developing countries and to the qualitative aspects of trade, such as the environment, food safety, health, consumer and rural considerations and cultural diversity. This is in line with the opinion of the Central Party, where, inter alia: is: ‘The new WTO negotiations will have a major impact on the ability of each country to steer its own social development. Therefore, WTO negotiations must end with international rules on driving, which take account of the environment, consumer interests, health, public administration and fair global distribution, rather than increased economic liberalisation. Traffic rules must be established for trade in areas where there is currently a free movement.» It is important to stress that not all rules are good rules. There are several examples of rules in WTO law that, in the view of the Centre Party, are poor. I want to draw up one of these sets of rules: the rules that give right to patents on biological material. And in this regard, I have noticed that the Foreign Minister in his presentation was also concerned with the problem of genetically modified organisms, which many consider to be one of the largest potential conflict areas in the WTO. Following the TRIPS Agreement in the WTO, all Member States are obliged to grant patents on microbiological material. There is therefore no prohibition on patenting animals and plants so that patents can be granted on genetically modified animals and plants. In this freedom of choice, there is a substantial advantage for companies interested in obtaining patents on animals and plants. These companies may make exports of products to a developing country conditional on the company obtaining a patent on genetically modified plants and animals. If these companies are able to sell their products to the farmers, especially in developing countries, the companies will have such great power over the farmers' bets that the farmer has to be regarded as a loan in practice. The inputs can only be used in accordance with the patent and the contract with the farmer. That this can be cost-effective for the farmer, there can be no great doubt about it. As an example, the American company Monsanta has filed an action against over a hundred farmers who have breached the conditions for the use of the products for this company. This shift in power for the benefit of patent holders must be thoroughly investigated in order to arrive at, if possible, arrangements to eliminate several of the disadvantages of national states and consumers in this regime. As I interpret the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I am confident that the Government has an offensive position in this area as well. I would also like to point out that several of the patents that have been granted have been obtained from the fact that the company has obtained biological base materials in areas of high biodiversity, for example. the rain forests. The genes of this biological material are modified in such a way as to produce an innovation that can give the right to patent. It is not common for the company to pay for the use of this biological material. This practice has therefore been called bio robberies. On the basis of principles enshrined in several UN resolutions that natural resources belong to the nation state, at least the WTO agreements should have rules to ensure a form of payment for this use of biological material. The centre party will take the initiative to promote proposals for the introduction of such rules.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e1066	I have followed this debate with interest, and I want to support those who say that this is one of the really big issues that will affect the long lines of Norwegian policy, and I support the main lines of the Government's approach, based on Norway's interest. Nevertheless, the WTO is based on an idea of growth like development, of the infinite quantities of resources, and we do not know that. We also know that the successful countries are responsible for 3⁄4 of all pollution in the world. In a time when everyone with respect for the sea as a politician is talking about the third way, we are starting a new round in the WTO that is old medicine for new problems. This representative thinks this is a paradox which should show greater interest. I am also concerned about popular participation in the new WTO round. The democratic and popular participation in the WTO depends on the content, speed and pace of the negotiations. In Norway, a critical light can be placed on public participation and transparency, and then we can only imagine what huge capacity problems most poor countries need in order to be able to participate in the negotiations and run democratic processes in their own country. I think we should have had a comprehensive evaluation of the Uruguay Round before starting a new one. We need to know if we have achieved our objectives from the previous round of negotiations. Among other things, it would be interesting to know if Africa really lost as much as the previous agreement actually assumed in 1994. Maybe it's gone worse than we feared. Talking about the need for international rules is certainly magic words here today. I think this is the most cliché in that context, because the question is more about who has the power to push through rules, and who has the resources and the capacity to use the rules that are formed. Moreover, the developing countries are so liberalised to meet the demands of the World Bank and the IMF that what is of greater importance to the outcome of the Uruguay Round and the new round of the WTO is, in fact, the extent to which maritime law and democratic order have at least the developing countries at their own borders. This is one of the most important for the development of the WTO Agreement to provide justice and benefits, including in developing countries. The importance of the interests of developing countries also seems to me to be based on a one-sided idea of the interests of developing countries. The different trading conditions in the economy, as it is called in economic theory, mean that the seas of the developing world are charging on exports to get their economy on the right track, as we demand, they will always get worse because the pricing of world trade is not, has not been, and is not going to be fair. In world trade, it is the power that prevails – and not solidarity. It's the United States that decides how many Norwegian apples we're allowed to sell to the Nordics. Based on the debate, this representative will be critical of the unilateral emphasis on the development strategy of MUL and Norway’s export interests. In too many countries, for example, the large group of peasants is very little to benefit from the expansion of exports to countries and rich countries. On the contrary, increased export opportunities can further exert pressure on the limited earth resources and rights existing in the world, creating a dispute over the areas between a rich upper and middle class in developing countries and the poor population. In many areas of the world, human rights are being violated by the increasing pressure of a rich upper class on soil resources and rights to benefit from it for just export production. Food safety needs to be incorporated into legislation as an important part of the sovereign protection of national states. The reduction of world cereal stocks and the actual prevalence of hunger at the turn of the millennium should increase the focus on food security and these issues. In my view, there is no accident for the world's poor if the ninth round of the WTO does not start in a few years' time. On the other hand, it may be good that more time is spent evaluating the previous round and ensuring greater public participation and transparency in the processes of the different countries. I believe that not least the developing countries will benefit from our spending more time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e1085	We now need a new round of negotiations on common driving rules before international trade. The arguments for going to such negotiations must be a reduction of barriers to trade, and that they should benefit everyone, both industry, consumers and society. But we also need to take advantage of the opportunities we have to stand outside the EU by building alternate alliances in the negotiations. Being the nicest good in class is at least not a priority problem. Unfortunately, over the five and six years of WTO agreements have worked too much, it is the industry in the countries that has lost most of the benefits of liberalisation. Here it is also important to ensure that MUL imports generate values that benefit the poor in the various MUL countries. In any case, no one should suspect the wholesalers at Aker Brygge to take the fort. At the same time, imports must be possible in such a way that any adverse effects on Norwegian agriculture are minimised. The center party is for business to operate within a regime that can provide good access to profit. At the same time, it is also in line with the view of the Centre Party when the Government enters to include the environment, food security, health and consumer concerns. It is necessary because consumers have suffered more losses over the years that the WTO agreements have existed. There may be enough mention of cases between the EU and the United States, where the EU refused to import hormone-treated meat from the United States. This import ban simply proved to be contrary to WTO law. The WTO dispute resolution body said that the precautionary principle did not prevail in this case. When it is also likely that these products also cannot be labelled as hormone-treated, the result is that the industry has won. It is society – and not least the consumer – that has lost. It's forbidden for society to stick with protective rules. Furthermore, consumers are not allowed to remove hormone-treated products themselves when there is a lack of information in the product labelling. That's not how we want it, or we can have it. In the forthcoming round of negotiations, the rules must be transformed in such a way that the precautionary principle cannot be applied, the exporter must, in exceptional cases, provide evidence that the product is not hazardous to health. One must at all times have rules that make it clear that the product must be marked with which processes it has undergone during production. These elements must be included in the negotiations. The large increase in purchases and mergers in all branches of business is not for the benefit of national governments or consumers. The multi-national groups have everything, both participation and chances of profiting, which has made many states out of control, particularly in the poor part of the world. Otherwise, food should be produced locally, both for the sake of natural balance and for the quality of food for consumers. Poor countries should use the food soil for their own consumption. Cocaine in England, salmonella in Germany and dioxins in Belgium are examples of the vulnerability and difficulty in seeing the effects of industrialised food production. The global food market is increasingly characterised by genetically engineered organisms, while the effects on health or ecological systems are little known. For the Centre Party, it is an objective to have an international trade which also takes into account the environment, health and living conditions. International trade must be no more detailed than providing ample space for states to design national rules to adapt the needs of each one of them. This can be achieved by decentralizing power, capital and bustage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e1106	Let me just briefly say that I and the other members of the Government who are present today, of course, have carefully noted the views that have emerged, as well as the general agreement that we believe to have for the Government's overall arrangement, and we shall take it with us in the future work towards and of course during the Seattle discussions, and then we will report back to the Storting after what must have happened in Seattle. There are several people who have pointed out what you think must be a conflict between our offensive and defensive interests. Representative Ivar Kristiansen, among others examined the relationship between agricultural interests and fisheries interests. I think it is important to reiterate that, in the current situation, we are in the process of drawing up a mandate and not the Norwegian negotiating positions in the various areas. And when we are going to draw up a mandate, it is important that it is made as broad as possible, precisely in order to safeguard not only our own interests but also the interests of other countries, and perhaps not least those of developing countries, which have also been emphasised here. That doesn't mean we give up anything. Finally, let me comment on Mr Solheim's proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1, which is about to start a thorough and systematic evaluation of previously concluded WTO agreements, I have already commented that we support the comprehensive evaluations carried out internationally. Of course, I would also like to say in the course of the Seattle discussions that it is important that, when we are working on new mandates, we look at what has been done in the past and the consequences of it. With regard to the proposal for improved market access for MUL countries, I would like to refer to both what I said today, and what I said earlier in the presentation. We support the EU's proposals, which will have positive effects, but we also want to go further and refer to the proposal contained in the draft Ministerial Declaration on the possibilities of zero-tariff duty on products from the MUL countries, provided that certain security mechanisms are attached to it. As regards proposal No: 3, where the government is asked to work for investments not to be negotiated in the new WTO round, I would like to remind the representative Solheim of what he himself said, that Norway is not the master of everything. I think it is more important that Norway engages here precisely on the basis of what we have said about the qualitative aspects of investment. We understand that it can become a topic, but if this is to become a topic, it is essential for us to take the necessary account of the environment and health, cultural interests, labour standards, national control of natural resources and the needs of developing countries. Any works of agreement must respect in a balanced manner the obligations and rights of all relevant actors. To the representative of Bastesen, who is not present, I would say that this is not about any MAI light, as he called it, this is a completely different investment agreement. I think it is important that Norway, from its point of view, engages in bringing together the aspects that I just mentioned, if it were to become a topic. But, as I said, it's undecided. I have further progressed on proposal No. 4, stressed that we stress that the mandate for TRIPS negotiations should not restrict existing access to exemption from patenting animals and plants and ways of manufacturing them. So to proposal No. 5: Under the Convention on Biological Diversity, there are already negotiations to regulate trade in genetically modified organisms. From the Norwegian side, we have a strong desire that these negotiations lead to a positive outcome. We have, as mentioned earlier, raised that these issues should not be addressed within the framework of the WTO, and I hope that, in the light of this, the representative Solheim agrees that the Government takes care of the concerns he has also expressed in his proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e1126	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the response to our proposals, which are essentially positive. We have some doubts about proposal No. 2, which is about MUL, but given that we are going to have ample opportunity to come back to all of these matters through the negotiation process, I would ask that the proposals in this round be turned into transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e1131	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e1139	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23-2.ana.ud167e1145	During the debate, Mr Solheim, on behalf of the Socialist Left, put forward five proposals. In line with the recently amended rules in the Storting Rules of Procedure, proposals made for a debate of the kind we have just implemented shall be dealt with in accordance with the third paragraph of Section 28 of the Rules of Procedure. In the course of the debate, the representative of Solheim has called for proposals to be dealt with in accordance with point (a), which means transmission to the Government without a motion for a resolution. It implies that the proposals are preceded by ‘Recommendation’, etc. Proposal No. 1 sounds in changed form: ‘The Government is advised to work towards the initiation of a thorough and systematic evaluation of the previously concluded WTO agreements. This may happen in parallel with new negotiations.» Proposal No. 2 sounds in changed form: ‘The Government is advised to work towards improving market access for agricultural products in developed countries, including Norway.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government work towards non-negotiating investments in the new WTO round.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government actively work towards abolishing the exemption for patents on biological material from the TRIPS Agreement.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government actively contribute to the harmonisation of the TRIPS Agreement under the WTO with the UN Convention on Biological Diversity.’;» The President proposes that the proposals be submitted to the Government without any rebuttal — and considers it to be adopted. The President will then propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Stockholm meeting on 16 November 1999 on the WTO Ministerial Conference in Seattle be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
