ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e27	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Centre Party's Group of Great Britain to the representative No quail bay as from Wednesday 17 March and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The representative of the goods, Jon Tørset, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e45	Jon Tørset is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e50	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament for the remainder of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e55	I allow myself to propose Ursula Evje.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e60	Ursula Evje has been proposed as vice-president. – Other proposals are not available, and Ursula Evje is unanimously elected president. The representative, Inge Myrvoll, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e65	I will be allowed to put forward a proposal on the separation of Telenor's network, and on the establishment of a company for the management of state telecommunications networks.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e70	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, it is a pleasure and honour for the President to wish South Africa's President, Nelson Mandela, a warm welcome here to the Stortinget – a historic moment for all of us. The representatives stand up and applaud.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e78	President Nelson Mandela! Welcome to the Norwegian Parliament! We are proud and honoured to have you as our guest. Yours is one of the most remarkable political careers of our century. Your struggle and your victory have inspired millions with new hopes, not only in South Africa, not only on the African continent, but in all corners of the world. We know that you are generous towards your friends, and we are capable of feeling that we are among them. But most impressive of all, perhaps, has been your extraordinary generosity towards your form energies. In this you have set a new standard and raised new hopes for resolving conflicts through reconciliation. Thank you, Mr. President, for all of this, and for your contribution to peace, democracy and human dignity. Dear President Mandela, as a statesman, as a moral inspiration and as a human being you have written yourself into our history books and into our hearts. Thank you! The representatives stand up and applaud.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e116	On Monday, the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office and subsequently amended that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Peter Angelsen State Council Kåre Gjøne State Council Magnhild Melting Party Kleppa In relation to the original notice, State Council Anne Enger Lahnstein has had to report a disease incident. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the notified persons, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked to be raised. - Thank you. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Annelise Höegh.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e137	I have a question for the Social Minister. Last week it was known through the VG that a dissatisfied 30-year-old for nine years has worked full-time as a janitor's assistant in Åmvet Municipality for ten kroner an hour. Inger Grønlien Eriksen, the head of care and care in the municipality. Even the 30-year-old says he thinks it's unfair: "I work 37.5 hours a week like all the others, but get much less paid." I agree with him that this is unfair. Against the municipality should hire him and give him the usual wage. Norway’s Handicap Association believes this is a system used by several municipalities, and they say that it is to devalue the labour of people with disabilities. This isn't just a review, it's abuse and exploitation. In the light of this information, will the Minister of Social Affairs take the initiative to ensure that municipalities do not exploit and abuse the labour of disabled people in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e148	The government is busy with several disabled people being able to work in the workplace. We are now looking at the arrangements that need to be assessed in connection with the live-out equalization report. For example, we're evaluating. the ability to provide a payroll over a longer period of time than is currently possible to employers who also see their responsibilities in this area. There is also a need to review the possibilities of combining work and social security and thus also to combine wage income with social security. There is a need to look at a softening and a change in this field. The representative, Höegh, points to a question that it is also natural to include in such an assessment. Individuals and businesses who themselves feel today's legislation as difficult have turned to us. So my answer is that this will be followed up, but in what way and with what solution is it too early to say anything about. But the representative Hoegh here points to something that is unsustainable today for them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e153	I thank the Council of State for agreeing that this is not sustainable. This is a clear way for municipalities to exploit and – I would say – abuse the labour of disabled people. It's the municipalities that save money on this by giving them a lice pay, a salary that's almost nothing, to do a normal job. The man I used as an example, has worked full time for nine years, and might not have had unpaid wages, but a decent salary from the municipality. But the state is poking out, the disabled person gets a view of himself as not being able to work – both parties are losing on it. So the municipalities win by giving these so-called well-being money. Does the Council not agree that this does not really have anything to do with national wage subsidies? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e158	The President notes that there is a given timeframe, and asks the representative to stay within it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e161	I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e166	I disagree in the terms of abuse and exploitation in this case. I don't know the whole thing in detail, but I'm going to believe that this municipality as well as other municipalities and also some companies benefit from the possibilities that exist today, because we have a situation that I think is difficult both for the disabled and for different types of companies. And in an effort to get even more disabled people into work, we're now reviewing the legislation that is, and looking at whether it's possible to make improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e171	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e175	My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. In the 1999 draft state budget, Social Minister Kleppa opened up the possibility for municipalities to use the elderly allocation of the Stortinge for purposes other than care for the elderly. Fortunately, the Labour Party gathered a majority against Storting's earmarked allocation to care for the elderly for other purposes. State Secretary Hagen of the Ministry of Local Affairs informed the Fädrelandsvennen on Saturday that 200 million. kr of the older package may be left unused this year. State Secretary Hagen believes this is due to Storting's earring, and he said about the municipalities: ‘Instead, they need hurt money for other purposes, mainly in school and education.’ Is there any consensus within the Centre that the elderly money should be used for other purposes?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e186	I've also marked myself State Secretary Per N. Hagen's statement. I think he says this because he knows that the municipalities have had a special economic situation at the turn of the year because of both increased wage costs, pension costs and the high interest rate that were, but fortunately now, going down. There is agreement in the Central Party that Stortinget should monitor its decisions. I'd like to take care of in my area, when it comes to care for the elderly, that happens. Yesterday, municipalities were notified of the allocation of care allowances so far. 309 municipalities will get the bills they've calculated with. 126 municipalities are told that they need to review their own situation. They are advised by the county council and the county council according to the requirements of the Storting for increased activity in order to be paid in full. There are municipalities that are already doing this well, so I hope that the situation will be different – I expect it – before the summer vacation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e191	I think it is good that the Minister of Social Affairs admits that there is too little money in the municipalities. The situation is that thousands of older people are waiting for more help in their homes, they are waiting for nursing homes, and they are waiting, not least, for hospitalization. The government sends out notable signals in this situation. First, they choose to postpone the older reform for two years, and in addition, we see that the earmarked funds should be used for other purposes. These are quite clear signals to the municipalities. I want to ask the Minister of Social Affairs: what is it that the Government is now turning around and going in to fully fulfill its election promise to the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e196	The government has not sent a signal that the money should be used for other purposes. What was proposed in the budget was that there could be exemptions from additional activity requirements in 1999. In addition, we took note of signals from some municipalities and looked at the budgetary situation and made it possible for investments to be made over six years rather than over four. But we're prepared to follow up the old-age plan as it leads from Stortinget, with a bet of 30 billion kroner over four years, but with the possibility of some displacement for the municipalities that need it. But the main bet is stuck. I don't think there's any doubt, and there's also the Stortinge's plural at the back of the last budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e201	There will be follow-up questions – Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e204	The background is that in the spring of 1997, the Stortinget adopted a escalating plan for the elderly, amounting to NOK 30 billion. This meant full government funding of 24,500 nursing homes and nursing homes, and 12,000 more couples in care. This had to be done to monitor the trend in the number of older people and the fact that a number of older people had unworthy care services. It was also the case that the Council of State party felt that the Workers' Party was too small. With the background of what I have now heard from answers, I have to ask: is it that the government will follow up the plan as it has been agreed by the Stortinge, or is it such that one accepts that the Ministry of Local Affairs has overlooked that some older people still live under unworthy conditions, and that the evolution in the number of older people is actually such that we need these billions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e211	Unique schemes are in place to follow up the ageing plan year by year. There is a separate group in each state, composed of representatives from county and county, who keep in touch with the individual municipalities and who keep in touch with the ministry. There are also people in the department who work on this. That's why we could also say from December 1. The municipalities are on route. They have planned what was planned for both 1998 and 1999. In 1998, they have also added 200 more people in the care services than was provided in the action plan. We're doing the same thing in 1999. That's what also means that the county had a deadline of 1 March to report to the department, and the indulgences will now be paid according to the requirements and the reports that are made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e216	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e219	I have a question for our honourable Minister of Agriculture. In these days, the EU has its agricultural reform in place. We are also in front of new negotiations in a new WTO round. This will have a significant impact on Norwegian agricultural production. What is now happening in the EU means that food prices in Sweden will be reduced by 10-15 pst. I remember last year we had a peak year in the border trade leakage of NOK 6.7 billion – NOK 2 billion from my own county of Eastfold. 40 pst. were groceries, because Kari and Ola travel to ‘sweet brother’ and buy Swedish groceries pigs cheap. With new reductions in food prices and also forthcoming reductions in pole prices, borderline leakage will accelerate, with loss of income and jobs for Norway and Norway. [[The President clubs.]] What strategy has the Government put in place to reduce borderline leakage?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e226	The President shall re-emphasise the limitation of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e229	It is true that agriculture will face major challenges in the coming years. This is not least in relation to the WTO negotiations that start in 1999 and the way in which they will impact on border protection and the support measures we have for Norwegian agriculture. It is also true what has been pointed out by the representative Hedstrøm, what has now happened in relation to the EU Agenda 2000 and the measures that are there. What is happening in the EU does not immediately have an impact on Norwegian agricultural policy. The fact that Norway chose not to join the EU also means, of course, that we can pursue a national agricultural policy regardless of the EU's agricultural policy. This does not mean, however, that what is happening in the EU area must not also be addressed, and in what way this can have an impact on Norwegian agricultural policy. This will not immediately come to an end, but it could be part of the evaluations made in the forthcoming agricultural negotiations and in the context of the debate on food prices in general in Norway. Otherwise, I would like to point out that the department has a sample going on, which has representatives from several parties, to look at the price formation of food from the ground to the table. I hope that will be an interesting result of the work done there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e239	I had hoped to get a more concise response from the Council of State on how to reduce the border trade leakage. This is when it has to happen, because thousands of Norwegians are creating a new pattern of trade in Sweden, which can be difficult to move alongside. I will return to the forthcoming WTO round. What we can say fairly surely is that the customs protection of Norwegian agricultural products will be reduced, and in some extreme cases, customs duties may be reduced by 50 pst. This, of course, will benefit RIMI-Hagen and company, and perhaps buy food abroad and uncompetitive Norwegian agricultural production. My question to the Council of State will be: What strategy will be put in place to make Norwegian agriculture more competitive, so that Norwegian farmers can reduce the prices of their agricultural products and thus survive?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e248	The price reductions contained in the EU strategy are not fully reflected before 2005. In this way, nothing dramatic happens overnight in relation to the price formation, as it is referred to. It should also be aware that the reform it introduces in the EU will make significant and, on the one hand, substantial new transfers from public budgets. It shall be capable of compensating for the losses incurred by the individual farmer, in order that the producer, too, may have something left for his production. As a result, even in Norway, one must be willing to take an even larger part of the budget to compensate. We also have a discussion about what has to do with the food tax question, which also has a relation to the price in general in the Norwegian market. Otherwise, it's clear that we can't prevent anyone from taking advantage of the opportunity they have to act on the other side of the frontier. Of course, it's a choice that each individual has to make.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e257	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e260	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture a question. As you know, we import significant quantities of meat from so-called MUL countries, less developed countries, every year in Norway. A clear majority in the UK has supported these imports, because the majority believe buying meat from the MUL countries is a good help for self-help. At the same time, these imports cause some problems for Norwegian agriculture. There is overproduction of Norwegian meat. Therefore, in the previous agricultural settlement, a ceiling was set on the amount of these imports. The majority of the Business Committee was also concerned with establishing a system for the marketing of MUL meat, and a request from the Government considered the introduction of an auction system and the labelling of all meat in order to ensure that MUL imports benefited the MUL countries. What has the Council of State done with this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e267	In relation to the quota that was set, we've kept well below it, so it's not full through the imports that have happened from MUL countries in the last year. Otherwise, we have had the assumption that the Storting still insists that these imports be maintained. With regard to what was said by the Committee on the auctioning principle, it has been assessed in some departments and with some conclusions. The Minister of Agriculture has asked for an external assessment, an assessment outside the ministerial system, of the way in which the auction principle works, and also of the manner in which it relates to the Committee's request. So the work the committee asked for is going on in the ministry, and one will, through what the Council of State has started, get a most objective assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e274	I thank you for your answer. From the agricultural organisations there were great hopes of a new and more active agricultural policy when the centre administration came into place. So far, it's pretty hard to see what's especially new. However, compared to MUL imports, there have been high expectations from the agricultural organisations, and the Centre and the Workers' Party agree to consider an auction and marking system, not least because it is strongly claimed that the only ones serving on these imports today are Norwegian speculators. On the basis of the answer given by the Council of State, one must be able to say that it is not going very quickly, and the natural question is: will the Council of State now speed up this process so that we can make a real assessment of the introduction of an auction system and the labelling of meat?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e281	It could probably be said that this should have been done in a faster way, but the Council of State has stressed the importance of getting as thorough an assessment as possible. And the fact that one has also wanted to go outside the ministry to get an assessment is because there is no question about the stability of the assessment we will get back to the Stortinget. I hope it will be satisfactory that one here does a good job to bring out what is our assessment. Otherwise, I would like to point out that the Minister of Agriculture believes that the last agricultural settlement was a considerable blow to the industry that had major problems at that time. It has also been clearly expressed subsequently by the organisations. We have started working on an agricultural report. We have submitted a forest report. So in relation to the time when the Council of State has had its place, I actually feel that we have had an active grip in relation to the Storting. If we get Stortinget to take the measures we want, we're still looking at some areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e288	Kjell Opseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e291	I note that the Minister of Agriculture believes that the job being done in the department must be done. But now the Minister of Agriculture has had two chances of giving an answer when he expects to come back to Stortinget with an auction system for MUL imports, or how this is assessed in the Ministry of Agriculture, without having given an exact answer to when this will happen. Therefore, there is reason to ask once again: When the Minister of Agriculture expects to have his assessments ready, so that one can get a system of this that makes the Norwegian consumer, and not least the countries from which we are importing, get the value of this imports that were intended for them?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e296	I expect that the representative Opseth is aware that there are very different assessments of whether it is the auction principle that is the best system. And now we're trying to figure that out. What is the natural time of feedback to the Storting, as the Council of State deems it, is in the context of agricultural settlements or in the context of the budget. From the point of view of the Council of State, it seems that the pace of this system should be satisfactory, but there may, of course, be other perceptions about it in the Grand Duchy. But so far it is possible that the agricultural settlement proposal or budget is the natural one for feedback.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e303	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e307	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Social Affairs. In the Adult Declaration, government parties describe that the differences in the population have increased in the last ten years. To spring, the Government is expected to provide the so-called difference message. At the same time, the Government has increased the tax on disease. They have been deducted from approx. 150,000 women in part-time work are entitled to sickness benefits, and by raising the peak tax entry point, the Government has provided tax relief for high-income groups. The government has also neglected to do something about what has contributed to the greatest differences, namely tax exemptions on dividends. Government parties have also fought through a zero-tax regime for the shipping industry. Based on the criticisms made by the government parties regarding the increased disparities that have developed over the last ten years, it would be thought that the Government’s objective would be to initiate measures to balance the differences. But these examples show that the government has helped to reinforce the differences further. [[The President clubs.]] Will the Government’s disparity notification focus only on the differences created before 1 October 1997, or will the Government in the disparity notification also describe the increased differences that occurred after that date? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e314	Now we were reminded by the representative, Mr Ballo, of the difficult budgetary situation facing us when we were preparing a budget for 1999. And the government proposed a total cut-off of $9 billion. Of course, it had to be marked by many. The live-out equalization message will now be presented in ours and will address both what happened before the center government joined, and as far as possible afterwards. The analyses show that what was said in the Adultås Declaration is correct. For example, in the case of income, developments from 1986 to 1996, which are the most recent figures available correctly, show that the proportion of the population at the bottom of the income scale during this period increased its income by 1 pst. The highest fraction of income was increased by 28 pst. There's in itself an analysis that tells us that there's a need to do something here. We also see that there are 60,000 people who for a long time have $50,000 available in their household, and there are 35,000 people who have used social assistance for three of the last seven years, and we are now working on proposals for action.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e323	The President thinks it might be appropriate to remind the representative of Ballo that speaking time is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e326	Thank you very much! There is no reason to doubt the correctness of its content in relation to the Adultås declaration. What's worrying is that it's become even more correct over the past year and a half. It is therefore close to asking whether the discrepancy that arises should only make the differences that are strongly increasing or whether there will be an impact assessment in the form of measures that have the effect of equalising the differences. When it is described by the Government that restrictions are necessary, one can point out here that it would have been possible to finance a good part of the measures that would have been necessary, through, for example, tax on dividends on shares, and by not having a zero-tax regime for the shipping industry. Several examples could have been mentioned. Is it possible to expect from the Government, in the future budget and as a result of the disparity, that action will be taken that will work smoothly, and what will be the action in that case?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e337	Now we can't go as far as to forward what's coming in the big-time message on the equalization of living conditions. It has not yet been submitted. I also believe that the representative, Mr Ballo, understands that I cannot forward proposals that would have to be included in the budget for the year 2000, not in my own area and not in the finance minister's area. I record his point of view when it comes to taxes, and I record his support for the need for action. Let me also point out that in the Adult Declaration, there are differences in living conditions that have been said to do something about. Then something has happened with the name of this message, from differences through living conditions to smoothing out, just to emphasize that here there is a need for concrete action in the direction of smoothing, and not just a description of the increasing differences in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e344	Is it right when the President has perceived it your way that the representative Eyeågen wants follow-up questions? That's when the Eyeman gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e347	Thank you for that. There is no doubt that the government has done things that help to increase the differences for people, prior to this message of difference. I would draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that one has taken from 200,000 people in this country the right to sickness benefits in case of long-term illness, and that from the poorest, those who serve the least, the low-paid – women who work part-time. We are about to have a situation here in the country where disease can actually lead to poverty, and this will lead to even more social clients in the worst cases. Will the Council reconsider this measure, now that one is looking at how to balance the differences between people, or should one ignore the measures already taken, that is to say, to take away the poorest entitlement to sickness benefits?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e356	Let me point to three points. First of all, it was actually the Labour Party that showed the way, because the daily allowance and the legislation there were changed by the government of Jagland with between 1 G and 1 1⁄4 G as the basis for the daily allowance, depending on how long one had had work. And that's what we followed up to get a more approximation. Secondly, of course, we are following up what the so-called unintended effects of this proposal might have. Thirdly, the government will, in a short time, set up a selection to review developments in terms of both sickness absence and disability pension, assess the existing arrangements, and look at how we will continue to maintain a solid and prudent regulatory framework in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e367	Asmund Kristoffersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e370	Now we're not going to criticise a message that's not presented, but we've got a somewhat unclear picture of what it's actually going to contain. But what I think is important to keep your attention focused is the differences that gradually grow. We agree that the differences in society go between those who have work and those who do not have work and who have social security as the only income base. I would like to ask the Council of State: with regard to the economic situation of disabled people in relation to the fact that we have a high proportion of people who are self-employed, both in some health services and in medicine, will the Council of State in the Communication discuss the total excesses that you have on services in both care, health and medicine? For this, an important basis for the individual’s economic situation is. And with last year's government budget decision, this situation was further exacerbated for this group.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e377	I found it encouraging that the Labour Party is now showing so much commitment to action against the increased differences. The background to our big message and this work is, in fact, a proposal that was voted down by the Labour Party in the spring of 1996. I see that there is now an increased commitment to different measures, and it promises well when we come up with our message. So they're disabled and the relation to property. There is now a work going on in the department to figure out a so-called roof 2, to screen the major consumers, the chroniclers, etc. It is a work that will be completed independently of this message, and which we hope we will be able to put forward and do something in relation to the budget for the year 2000, and which is also important to get on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e385	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e388	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister for Social Affairs. 309 municipalities have now been informed that they are receiving a grant to strengthen the care of the elderly, 106 municipalities have not yet received anything. For the 309 municipalities, this amounts to NOK 1.5 billion of the total amount of NOK 1.8 billion. Will the Minister of Social Affairs now take an initiative towards the remaining municipalities, so that the elderly and caregivers are not affected by the lack of ability and willingness of politicians to give priority to the care of older people in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e395	The answer is yes, the initiative is already taken. I got an overview of the plans that the municipalities had by now. 1 December, and presented them in January. I asked the county councillors to follow up with each municipality, to get an overview of the budget situation for 1999, and how the municipalities then gave priority to their plans. The people had a deadline of March 1st, and it's with the background of the reports that came from the statesmen, that the indulgences are now paid as they are. The County/State doctor, the group that works in each state, is already well-informed, i.e. that they have contact with each of these 126 municipalities. Otherwise, they can be sorted into two groups. There are some who have not delivered satisfactory plans, which therefore cannot be accepted, and some have not completed their formal treatment either of the plan or of the budget. It's the one group. The other group is the one that per. date does not meet activity requirements. It is therefore also gratifying to note that the follow-up that is already under way is producing results. There are municipalities that are now looking at their own plans, according to their advice and the follow-up they receive in the individual counties for how to follow up and support them so that even more older people in their own municipalities get the care and care they need in 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e400	I thank you for your answer. I would like to follow up as follows: in connection with these grant schemes, questions were asked about how much would go to nursing homes, and how much would go to the nursing home section. It was part of us who were very concerned that the health care unit could actually be down-prioritized, because it also leads to higher costs for each municipality on the operating side. My question to the Minister for Social Affairs will be as follows: Can the Minister for Social Affairs say something about the relationship now between investment in the care housing sector and the health care sector? Because it is a fact that in a number of municipalities there is a very great need for hospitalisation places, because the proportion of the elderly and the sick has become so large, and some have actually become very poor before they receive the offer. Can the Minister for Social Affairs say anything about the relationship here?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e409	The list that was based on plans per. On 1 December from the municipalities, it was shown that the municipalities were planning overall in terms of the number of care centres/sickness centres, but that the distribution was about as in the action plan. There are 1/3 sick homes and 2/3 nursing homes provided. What's happened in the first year is that there's been extra attention to care establishments, it's the easiest ones to set up. But in relation to the plans that the municipalities have, it looks like they're following the action plan there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e414	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e417	I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries a question. The FAO provides a strong warning against overfishing and believes that the catch of the fishing fleet in the world must be greatly reduced. Despite a reduction in the number of fishing boats in Norway, there is still a lack of consistency between the fishing capacity and the resource base. Here, too, the news is alarming when it comes to the cod stock in the Barents Sea. After all, catches of cod will be recorded in the country with large amounts of cod. How does the Minister for Fisheries assess this situation, and what measures does he think it is right to put in place to protect the cod stock, so that we have something to fish for in the future as well?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e424	With regard to the issue of overcapacity on which the FAO has put the search light, there is something that has been worked on in international contexts over time. It is quite clear, as Mr Tveiten says here, that on a global scale there is considerable overcapacity in the fishing fleet, which is burdened with different management areas. The government has presented the measures that we consider to be right to implement in the Single European Act that have just been dealt with in the Storting. It can be done, among other things: on the unit quota scheme for the so-called concession ships for the purpose of extracting capacity. As regards the coastal fleet and the more open groups, the State budget has taken action to reduce the number of vessels. The capacity of the fleet is, of course, variable in relation to the availability of resources. Two to three years ago, it could be said that there was relatively little overcapacity in the cod sector, while now, with the background to the decline in cod stocks, there is considerable overcapacity. The Government is now working to improve overall management of cod in the Barents Sea. We have already taken action to protect the smaller classes in our part of the Barents Sea. We will also re-examine the issue with the Russian authorities when the Russian Minister for Fisheries visits Norway at the end of April. Cooperation between the Directorate-General for Fisheries and the Norwegian Raw Fish Team has also been established with inspectors to carry out the Coast Guard.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e437	I thank you for your answer. I thought it was nice to hear that the Minister for Fisheries would be on the hook. The question is, do I have enough crunch? Should we really take care of the development of the cod stock so that it can get better, I fear that it must be quite strict gripping. How does the Minister for Fisheries view the issue of refusing to land sub-target fish to Norwegian plants in the extent that we see today? And how much responsibility does the Minister for Fisheries feel that Norway must have in relation to the total fishing capacity in the world? I am thinking about the boats that will be left behind in connection with unit quota schemes. Should they leave the fish, or what does the Minster of Fisheries mean to do with them?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e444	As regards the measures to be taken to have full control, there will of course be an ongoing assessment. The Ministry of Fisheries has now asked our underlying bodies to intensify the monitoring of what is happening on the fishing grounds. We consider that to be one of the most important measures to get a full overview of what is happening. When it comes to refusing the landing of sub-target fish, Norwegian fishing legislation requires Norwegian fishing vessels to land all catches taken on board a vessel, legally as illegal, in order to avoid dumping, and to have a full overview of what is happening on the fishing grounds. I think that's a right provision. What's important to us is to follow up with control to see that there's no dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e451	There will be follow-up questions – Einar Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e455	Norway and Russia have concluded an agreement with Iceland on fishing in the Barents Sea. The question is then: does the Minister for Fisheries consider that it will be easier to carry out resource controls in the Barents Sea now when Norway has authorised other countries to fish for rights on an illegal basis?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e460	The agreement between Norway, Russia and Iceland, which has been provisionally signed, has not been finally negotiated. On 22 March negotiations will begin in Moscow to finalise the agreement and to negotiate the re-performance to be given by Iceland with regard to fishing quotas. When the word ‘illegal’ is used for fishing by Iceland, I would just like to stress that in the sense of international law Iceland has not engaged in any illegal fishing in the Barents Sea. The fisheries that have taken place in the Smutthole have been carried out under international law. There are no provisions that can refuse them to do so. But let me also say that the most important thing about the agreement is that we get Icelandic fishing in the Barents Sea under the quota rules that are set annually, and that we avoid overfishing that we had before.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e469	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e472	My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. Now the Center Party is once again going to increase the taxes. According to the Sunday Newspaper, the Minister of Social Affairs wants to re-examine what she lost in the fall and where one of the objectives must obviously be corporate and capital taxation. When the Right went so hard into the budget just not to get changed at those points, it was for Norwegian jobs. This issue has become even more important in the future, because we now see how a number of companies establish themselves outside, while there are few, too few, who establish themselves here at home. One of the big fights in the next decade is just the struggle for capital. My question is therefore: why does the Minister for Social Affairs give notice of positions that will lead to Norway losing in the fight for capital, and therefore in the fight for jobs in the next decade?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e481	My commitment is to direct the work on a staggering report on living conditions, where six departments are involved. The analyses show that the differences have increased. The analyses show that although most of us have now been involved in wealth development over several years, there are groups that have been left hanging, for example. that the ratio with the lowest income over 10 years has improved its income by 1 pst. We know that there are groups that have a very difficult economic situation today. In addition, over 35,000 people over the last seven years — perhaps more — have asked for social assistance, a help that would have been a temporary economic benefit in an acutely difficult situation. Then one of the Government's keywords is'redistribution'. If we're going to be able to give some groups better terms, we need reallocation. But I believe that Jan Petersen has registered that I have not notified any specific proposals, cork compared to the budget for the year 2000 or later. Neither is it the social minister's task when it comes to taxes, but I think it's very important that we keep the debate on redistribution up in the light of the increasing differences we're now seeing, and do what we can to get action to address the differences between the most difficult in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e488	This was a scandalous bad answer, because the Council of State did not answer my question at all. My concerns are Norwegian jobs and the possibility of setting up businesses in Norway. The question is this: Does the Council agree with me that having new jobs and thus creating jobs in Norway is an important measure to prevent people from falling through the safety network in Norway? Isn't making sure that there won't be unemployment, one of the most important challenges? And my question to the Council of State – not least in the light of the non-response she gave: Can we be sure that the Government will not make proposals that will ensure that we lose the fight for capital? And can we be sure that the message of the difference also discusses this important issue when the message is written, that the issue is not being circumvented, as the Council of State did now?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e493	I fully agree with Jan Petersen in what he points out here – the need for Norwegian jobs and the need for as many people as possible to get a job, and of course what it has to say for income to this country, which also provides the basis for redistribution. I have to leave to other colleagues to go into detail on just that. I hope Petersen understands that. The Minister of Economic Affairs has a programme for small and medium-sized enterprises, and too much else behind the Government, the Minister of Finance now has more distributions and tax-related tasks. There will be an assessment of the tax system and how it can be smoothed out in the Lifetime Equalisation Notice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e500	There will be follow-up questions – Børge Brende.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e503	You can get the impression that the government is doing a conscious form of double communication here. The Minister for Social Affairs refers to the fact that the Minister for Economic Affairs has to make plans for small and medium-sized enterprises and then, on the other hand, she has to increase taxes and charges. It's not quite in touch. It would have been an advantage if the social minister had admitted that the social welfare arrangements we have in Norway would not be better than the values created. We're dependent on a business that's running with profits, so that it's also going to be income. These are realities that count. The Government of Bondevik has increased the differences: the interest rate has increased. It hits the weakest. Inflation in Norway is higher than in other European countries. It also affects the weakest. If we are to do something about the differences in Norway, we need to add up to a robust economy with growth potential. And what recipe does the Minister of Social Affairs and the Government have there? She cannot hide behind the fact that taxes and taxes are not her table when she speaks about it. Does the Minister for Social Affairs think that increasing taxes and taxes will contribute to fewer unemployed people?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e512	I am now recording that it is the Government that should be responsible for the interest being so high. I believe the representative Mr. Børge Brende must agree with me that there were also many other issues than the government's policy which were decisive for the budget for 1999, which was again set up by the Right. So to the debts of double communication. I actually thought it would have to be possible on the one hand to be busy getting more jobs as a basis for getting the most out of work, as a basis for taking full Norway into use with the resources we have here, and at the same time being busy with the increased differences we are now seeing in our country, and the extravagantness that is needed in relation to what is now a common value, equivalent living conditions, which are on the move.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e519	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e523	As a representative of a party that is really concerned with the increased differences in Norway, and as a representative of a party that is very concerned about the injustice committed against Norwegian citizens, I see that I have to ask the Minister of Social Affairs a question. The reason why I ask the main question is that I have good experience that the Minister of Social Affairs is following up the questions asked in the Stortinget in a good way. I'd like to point out what she's done about the security service for the war pensioners and an equal military pension, which you get from September 1st this year. But the injustice committed against the Narvik Battalion, who for 54 years has been waiting to be compensated for lost assets in connection with participation in the battles in Narvik in 1940, is a disgrace that the nation cannot sit and watch anymore. I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs, who is very active: will she now address this matter as well and get it resolved once and for all?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e528	It's just that the representative Vidar Kleppe here points out: over 50 years after the war, there is still a need to look closer to a lot of things that have to do with the war. He even mentioned two things, the curator's service and the war pensions. In addition, a reference to the Alta Battalion has become a theme through a particular selection, and individuals are now advised to apply for a war pension and, if necessary, to be evaluated. The government has seen money from the 1999 budget to do well an old injustice against individuals who have delayed, who have not yet been taken seriously. When Vidar Kleppe now raises questions in relation to the Narvik Battalion, I want to see the details of that matter more closely before I give any answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e533	I thank you for your answer. Details are often important and crucial for the work done by both government and elected representatives, so I am pleased that the Minister of Social Affairs will also look at these matters. When one has been operating for several decades between different departments – the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Social Affairs – and other representatives in this Chamber have taken initiatives up to several times, I think it is a pleasure, and I interpret it as positive that the Council of State will now coordinate this work and bring this to an end with dignity for the Norwegian nation – for these honoraries and women.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e538	I would like to ask the representative Kleppe not to put any interpretation into my answer just now, except that he has taken up a very important theme that I am going to adopt for being reviewed. The representative himself showed that this is a matter that has gone between several departments and over a long period of time, and I think it tells something about difficult evaluations that have to be done in such cases. But I want to come back to an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e543	The time for the oral Question Time is now over, and we're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e548	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Laila Kaland to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. Question 3, from the representative of Unn Aarrestad to the Minister for Culture, must be postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State has a disease. Questions 6 and 7 from the representative Dag Danielsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be answered by the Minister for Development and Human Rights on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The questions were raised by Sissel Dagslet. Question 8, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be taken up by the representative Benn Mikalsen. Questions 12, 13 and 14 from the representatives of Synnøve Konglevoll and Ursula Evje respectively to the Minister for Church, Education and Research will, in agreement between the Council of State and the questioners, be postponed until the next Question Time. Question 16, from the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration who will direct him. Question 17, from the representative Karin Andersen to the Social Minister, will be raised by the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo. Questions 18 and 19, from the representatives of Reidun Gravdahl and Annelise Höegh, respectively, to the Minister for Health, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 20, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Health, who has been removed. Question 22, from the representative Børge Brende to the Minister for Development and Human Rights, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State in response to question 7, to be answered by the same Council of State. Questions 23, 24 and 25, from the representatives of Øyvind Vaksdal, Bent Hegna and Per Roar Bredvold respectively to the Minister for the Environment, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e583	This question, from the representative of Laila Kaland to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e586	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Unemployment among immigrants is high and professional participation among immigrant women is particularly low. Some of these women have low education, lack of Norwegian knowledge and lack knowledge of Norwegian society. The improvement of Norwegian education and the improvement of labour market measures towards immigrant women must be a deliberate policy. How will the Council of State and the Government contribute to the achievement of this objective?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e595	It is the first time in a new country that the basis for a new life is created. The government believes that this is where we need to take action to increase the participation of immigrant women — both in the labour market and in other areas of society. We know that everyone needs basic qualification to fit into the labour market, as well as Norwegian knowledge of society and work. Education in Norwegian with social skills has been transformed into a level-based model since 1998. Priority shall be given to those with a weakest school background with up to 3000 hours of Norwegian education. We know that many immigrant women are included in this group. There are no specific rules for women, but municipalities are specifically asked to motivate women to Norwegian education. Some municipalities provide specific training services for immigrant women. Participation in labour market measures is assessed if it is important to get into normal work. The Labour Market Act participates in several projects specifically aimed at qualifying migrant women for ordinary work. As an instrument of the basic qualification, the Government wishes to link participation in qualification to the payment of financial benefits. A sample shall draft its own law on a benefit related to qualification, so that new entrants participating in qualification receive a benefit to cover the cost of living and housing. Under this scheme, we will provide municipalities with a tool to facilitate the faster entry of newcomers into the labour market. Individual municipalities will be able to choose whether to use the scheme. A clear division of responsibilities and good cooperation between the bodies involved, such as social action, labour market authorities and education authorities, are necessary in order for immigrants to receive a good offer that qualifies for Norwegian working life. The Government has set up a cross-ministerial working group to assess different aspects of the basic qualification, including: the organisation, content and use of individual action plans. Emphasis will be placed on adapting the qualification to the life situation and ambition of each individual.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e611	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, which I thought contained several positive moments. I still want to ask him a few questions, and will explain my questions a little. I think immigrants will learn Norwegian. They want to go out to work and spend their own money and don't want to be social clients. Immigrant women have the primary responsibility for the provision of children and young people, and it is therefore decisive that mothers get to participate in education and acquire knowledge of Norwegian language and culture, and also come into the ordinary working life. I want to point to two areas that I ask the Council of State to follow closely up. The cost of Norwegian training has increased by approx. 10.5 pst. since 1993. At the same time, the advances for Norway with social skills for immigrants have remained unchanged since 1993. Labour market measures are also greatly reduced in the government budget proposals. I think the Council of State should be particularly observant in these two areas and include it in the further work. In addition, the economy is concerned with implementing measures for immigrant women.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e620	I noticed what the representative said. As I said in my first answer, for the Government, it is essential to facilitate basic qualification. Both Norwegian knowledge and knowledge of Norwegian social and labour life are important, and the Government has put up a level-based model on the background – as I said at the outset. Obviously, there may be cases where you need to go further. Therefore, participation in labour market measures will also be assessed if it is necessary and important to enter the labour market. But as I also said in my first answer, it is a wish of the Government that the right to social benefits should be linked to participation in qualification. In my opinion, this is also an important element that needs to be emphasised.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e627	I thank you for your answer. I believe that the primary responsibility of mothers for the custody of children and young people is an important element in preventing children from entering a bad environment, a criminal environment and a power environment. Hence, it is necessary for mothers to be observed more than before in the fight against violence. They can continue to learn more Norwegian, to know more about Norwegian society and just as they can get into the ordinary labour market and become acquainted with their new compatriots. Therefore, the group that the Minister of State has seen down is important, and I hope that we will close down in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e632	Quite briefly: I fully agree with the representative of Kaland in this, and I will put her comments to mind in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e640	I want to ask the Prime Minister the following questions: ‘By letter of 8 March 1999, the World Commission asked the Spokesman of the Förde Municipality a number of questions about a specific regulatory matter. Does the Prime Minister think that the Commission's mandate gives the Commission the right to address individual matters in the administration, in this case the municipal administration?'
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e649	According to its mandate, the Value Commission shall contribute to a broad range of value and societal mobilisation in order to enhance positive Community values and responsibilities for the environment and the community. In particular, the mandate of the Commission identifies two points that are relevant to Mr Opseth's question. I quote: ‘ – The Value Commission shall identify the current value and societal challenges facing it and discuss possible responses to them. In this work it shall challenge and stimulate public authorities and relevant parts of civil society for debate and participation. – The Value Commission shall challenge ethical reflection and action not only through investigations but through a wide range of activities that exemplify, update and concreteise value issues.’;» A number of people have addressed the Value Commission. Many have wanted to participate in the value debate based on general reflection and societal exposure. Others, in turn, have based their commitment on concrete experiences, among other things. from matters that are for management treatment. These individual and individual reflections have in many cases provided the basis for general challenges on the part of the Value Commission – to society as a whole, to some of us, and to administration in particular. That's good, and I think the Commission's work so far has raised many exciting issues. It is important that society keeps track of the fact that there are no errors or injustices committed against individuals in public administration at all times. It happens in many ways. Citizens can avail themselves of their right to appeal decisions to other administrative bodies. Complaints may also be sent to the Civil Ombudsman. Of course, the Value Commission has not been given any administrative competence to review management decisions. Some of the value of the open society we want to have is that also other than the public bodies can address issues for critical lighting. Our media do an important job here by taking up individual matters and subjecting them to a fundamental light. I believe that political authorities should not give detailed instructions to the Value Commission on how to follow up its mandate. However, I have noticed that the Commission's new head, Jan Erik Langangen, has stated that the Commission does not consider it a task to go into individual matters in the administration. I think that is a sensible position, even though the mandate does not deprive the Commission of the right to ask public bodies questions about matters which may shed light on more general and fundamental questions. The letter to the Principality to which the representative Opseth refers has not been addressed by the Governing Board of the Value Commission, but has been sent by the Secretary-General. With regard to the specific expropriation and regulation matter that this is about, I see no reason to go into it. However, I am aware that the City Council has taken unanimous decisions in the matter, and that the rapporteur in the City of Förde has already answered the letter from the Secretary of the Value Commission and thus helped clarify the facts in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e675	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer, which in many ways was clarifying in relation to whether the Value Commission is going to go into individual cases. I would like to be allowed to state that the letter was sent is one thing, but the contents of the letter are different. If this is the case that the Value Commission is to enter the administration as detailed as in this case, the Value Commission will have a formidable job. So there's every reason to be happy that the leader of the Value Commission has said that this is not a task for the Value Commission. However, when such letters are sent, they must be based on the fact that the mandate given to the Value Commission is not clear enough, all the time the secretary has sent this letter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e680	I think the Commission's mandate is clear enough. When the Commission's manager also says that he does not see it as natural for the Commission to go into individual matters, I think this should be satisfactorily resolved. We have also been informed by the Commission's secretariat that the Commission receives a lot of requests from individuals, but that their practice is that they do not go into individual cases. However, they tend to see whether the requests can be categorised in a main area which may be relevant for the Commission to address on a more general basis. I am not so concerned about whether the Commission should feel that it has a right to address an executive body on a single matter, but, as I have said, I think the Commissioner's statement that it should not be the Commission's practice shows a wise attitude and a wise understanding of the mandate. In any event, the Commission shall not be an appeal body for administrative decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e689	Once again, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the answer. I think this round in Stortinget will do the job that the Value Commission is going to do, something simpler, easy to concentrate on the basic holds and values that we all have in society, which we all agree on should be strengthened. So one might have doubts or believe in what extent one through a process can achieve the goal that at least I, for my part, must be with the Value Commission, and then one should stay far away from individual matters in the administration and concentrate on the main tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e696	As has well been shown by the exchange of words between the representative Opseth and me, I believe that we largely share the perception of what the Commission should work with, and what it should not enter into. However, the letter sent by the secretary-in-chief points out at the outset that he sees the way the big community treats weak people as an important issue for the Commission, and in that context he has asked these questions. I can agree that the questions are asked in a way that seems to be more a desire to go into a specific matter than in this general issue. But here the Commissioner has expressed an opinion that I think is wise, and that I have the impression that the representative Opseth and I share. Otherwise, I would say that even if it doesn't always happen in the national media, and although there may also be trends in the national media to try to minimize the work of the Value Commission, it has actually started a lot of positive work, got a value debate going in businesses, in organisations, in schools – in civil society at all. I believe that those who follow the work of the Value Commission other than the great national media will see that it has already started many fine processes according to its mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e713	This issue has been postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State has a disability.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e719	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Children and Family Reply to Haugland: ‘In the name of some forces in the advertising industry, conferences have been organised with the aim of developing advertising strategies aimed at children. Today there are regulations on advertising aimed at children in the ether media, but not in the press. What will the Council of State do to protect defenceless children from advertising and will any ban in today’s/weekly press and broadcasting be assessed?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e728	It is true that the marketing law does not generally prohibit advertising against children. But the laws contain a ban on traders from carrying out acts that are unnatural to consumers, or otherwise are contrary to good marketing practice. Advertising that exploits its children's confidence in the performers, or exploits that children have less experience and are more reliable than adults, would be contrary to good marketing practice. As the representative Moland says in his question, today there are rules governing advertising directed at children in the ether media. The Broadcasting Act prohibits the advertising of children on radio or on television. The Broadcasting Act also prohibits the sending of advertisements 10 minutes before and after a children's programme. For the Consumer Environment, which supervises marketing law, advertising is directed to children a priority area. When it comes to what measures I might suggest, I point out that the Government is preparing a communication on consumer policy. We aim to present this message to Stortinget before the summer. In this message source and advertisement will be an important theme. On the basis of the message, I hope that we will have a wide debate in Stortinget, where representatives can explain what measures they think are undesirable and necessary. An important topic relates to the balance between protecting children, e.g. through the code, and to make it better by training, so that they can make good choices themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e737	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I was very pleased with the answer. It was very positive. According to a survey 4, the facts have been done for the organisation The future in our hands, 62 pst respond. by the population that they do not accept advertising aimed at children and young people. A few in the advertising industry don't shoot any means to manipulate the advertising. Some people want to set limits on their children, while, fortunately, a majority want to protect children from unlucky and aggressive advertising. Children have limited opportunities to distinguish advertising from reality, and therefore this advertising has a high impact on their children. It is a joyous health sign for the advertising industry that only 15 advertisers signed up for a conference in Oslo that intended to look at the industry's ability to influence children's shopping habits. With the positive response of the Council of State, I have no question of follow-up, because my question was about concrete action and a desire to have this presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e750	I have the following questions for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘Halden municipality discriminates against out-of-town craft companies. Fredrikstad company Borge Rør A/S offered an offer of 701 000 kroner for plumbing workers in the municipality of Karrestad housing, but the municipality chose a local plumbing company of 23 000 kroner higher in price. The general principles of the EEA Agreement also apply to the municipal sector below the thresholds. What will the Council of State do to prevent Halden from breaking the EEA acquis?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e759	It is true, as the wholesaler Hedstrom points out, that the general provisions of the EEA Agreement, including the prohibition of discrimination on a national basis, also apply to the municipal sector. In addition, it follows from Norwegian tender law and administrative law that suppliers are to be accorded equal treatment. Therefore, a municipality cannot prefer a supplier alone because of its locality. Whether the municipality of Halden has breached any of these legal rules in connection with the purchase of plumbing services to Karrestad housing, I would not like to comment on this. However, I would like to point out in general that in the context of the choice of supplier, it is a fundamental principle that each supplier should be informed of the criteria that will be essential for the award. It is therefore necessary for the contracting entity to disclose whether an award will be made on the basis of a price alone or on the basis of a more complex assessment of which offer is the most economically advantageous. If the municipality has opted for an allocation based on an overall economic assessment, no more expensive price of the winner’s offer will in itself involve a breach of legislation. Finally, I would like to say that the Government is working actively to help ensure that the legislation in the field of public procurement, including the general provisions of the EEA Agreement, is also followed in the municipality of Norway. A part of this work is the dialogue that the Ministry of Industry and Trade now has with the local government sector to assess common governmental and municipal procurement rules regardless of the size of the acquisition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e770	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that the Ministry and the Government are working to find better solutions that can help small and medium-sized enterprises that are competitive. The case of Borge Tube A/S is not unique. Other companies also said they had missed the offer in Halden municipality. Although the procedural rules of the EEA Agreement do not apply to acquisitions below the thresholds, the general principles of the Agreement also apply in the municipal sector and to all acquisitions, irrespective of their value. This was the Council of State on the other hand. The fact that the municipality does not take the best and cheapest tender means that it is the taxpayers who will ultimately pay for it. On a national basis, there may be large amounts that mean a negative effect for those who will ultimately pay the bill. My supplementary question to the Council of State will be: What will the Council of State contribute in addition to what he has said, in order to give the companies that are competitive rights? For example, he wants to. facilitate the possibility of bringing an action for irreprehensible discrimination?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e779	Let me first say, as I also said in my first answer, that the principles and the way in which Hedstrom is represented here are absolutely crucial. There must be fair competition and there must be objective criteria on which individuals can relate and compete on the basis of which they can compete. That must be the guiding principle. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade now has a sample of work to look at a device to enforce it, and will consider possible measures to improve conditions, including: to be able to give each person an opportunity to appeal against unfair treatment. This sample will present its setting in a short time – at least in the summer – and then we will follow it up. Another important aspect is the work I mentioned in my answer, towards a common regulatory framework for all public acquisitions, even below the thresholds. The Storting has also given some leadership and expressed the wish that the Government should return to Stortinget with an extension of the law on public acquisitions to the municipal sector. If such legislation is put in place, suppliers to the municipal sector will have a stronger position than today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e788	I thank the Council of State for the additional response, which was fully satisfactory. I would also like to point out that it is important when the results of work in the department are available, to go out and inform small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they can know more concretely and on a proper basis what their rights are, thus creating security so that they can continue to submit tenders. This costs relatively considerable amounts. I hope that this information will be a matter of course from the department, and that it will be done thoroughly when the results are available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e795	I will promise that we will follow this up in a way that will ensure an even more effective and better competition. The situation today is that the procurement procedures of municipalities are at best included in instructions. This makes it possible for suppliers to rely on legislation before the courts. However, a new common regulatory framework will change this and thus ensure genuine competition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e800	Questions 6 and 7 from the representative Dag Danielsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be raised by the representative Sissel Dagslet and answered by the Minister for Development and Human Rights on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e806	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Development and Human Rights: ‘According to the media, NATO’s strategy of exerting massive pressure on Slobodan Milosevic is undermined by the fact that central allies provide assurances that certain measures are not being implemented. If this is true, it makes much of the Kosovo negotiations difficult, while undermining the position of NATO. What is the Minister’s assessment of this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e815	The Minister for Foreign Affairs is not aware that allied countries have given such assurances to President Milosevic. NATO officers must have made appropriate claims in the media. As the OSCE President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has regular contact with his colleagues from NATO countries in the Contact Group of the former Yugoslavia. In these conversations, he has been unable to record anything but strong interaction between the allies on this issue. Kosovo negotiations are now under way again in Paris, and efforts are being made to ensure that the parties reach agreement on a peaceful solution. In the Government's view, there is no doubt that NATO Member States are united in their efforts to achieve a negotiated solution and satisfactory civil and military control arrangements as soon as possible with the implementation of the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e822	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Does the Council not believe that the time has come for Norway to say clearly from now on? If NATO is to maintain its credibility, it is important not only to present threats, but also, if necessary, to implement them. In the evening post yesterday it appeared that the Kosovo Albanians have now accepted the peace agreement and committed themselves to signing it. Milosevic's views, on the other hand, are, in my view, completely unclear. You can ask yourself if he intends to sign some agreement at all. He hardly takes NATO's threats seriously. That there is now disagreement within NATO, is known. From the British, French and German teams, it has been argued that the basis of international law for attack is weakened in relation to what it was in October 1998. What does the Council of State think about this, and what does it do for NATO to be serious about its threats now?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e829	First of all, I think I must stress that it is the OSCE President, Minister of Foreign Affairs Knut Vollebæk, who is right to answer the question, but I will give you at least a few points of view. When the representative says that the time has come for Norway to say clearly from now on, I would probably ask that we from Norway work in close cooperation with the rest of the OSCE, and that we do not go unilaterally with measures in any direction. It will be very little appropriate. It is important that the international community, NATO and the OSCE act together. So that's the question of presenting threats without implementing them. I would like to stress that negotiations are now under way in France and that, as the representative said, the Kosovo Albanians have accepted the peace agreement. Now the pressure is on the Serbian side. In my opinion, there are clear premises and frameworks for the implementation of NATO operations, and we must at least give a peaceful solution a full chance before such operations are undertaken by NATO. When it comes to French and German attitudes, I don't think I'm going to comment on it on the basis of media postings. Then I think we need to have a different background for what we're saying.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e840	I have a great deal of understanding that the Council of State cannot respond under the direction of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but I actually think that the Government has a very diffuse attitude to what is now happening. I believe that we must say clearly soon. I'm of the opinion that we don't, NATO's credibility is at stake, I feel. In this case, threats to threats are rarely posed, and the counterparty — in this case — does not take the threats seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e847	In my opinion, it is premature to conclude that the counterparty does not take this seriously. Now there is a significant international pressure against the Serbs. The Kosovo Albanians have accepted the agreement. That means that the entire international community can now put the emphasis on the relationship with Milosevic and his government. What we have to do is put maximum pressure on that situation to avoid having to resort to military action. With regard to that option, it is actually so that ACTORD is prepared by NATO, and this can be implemented if a single NATO considers this to be justified by developments in the negotiations. But first we have to give peace a chance and try to avoid using military resources. If necessary, we must do so, and that time must be decided by an overall NATO, and not by Norway alone.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e857	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Development and Human Rights: ‘According to the post-Aftenspost on 11 March 1999, strong forces in the EU will require the organisation to promote a resolution critical to China when the UN Commission on Human Rights starts its session later this month. This is done on the basis that there is a strong dissatisfaction with the results achieved in the field of human rights in China. What foreign policy measures does the Norwegian Government intend to take to show that the human rights situation in China is unacceptable?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e866	The human rights situation in China has been raised by Norway in connection with a number of visits to and from China at political level in recent years. In particular, this has been the case since Norway started a continuous human rights dialogue with China in 1993. Dialogue has been gradually developed to the extent and depth of the dialogue, with a particular focus on the rule of law, including: freedom of expression and criminal law. The human rights situation in China will also be a central theme of the consultations that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will have with the Chinese Minister of Foreign Affairs when he visits Norway next week, as part of a Nordic round trip. Developments in human rights in China show that the picture is complex. On the positive side, it can be seen that: China has now signed the two central UN conventions on human rights from 1966.The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mary Robinson, was invited to China last autumn.The UN Special Rapporteur for Torture has been invited to China in the near future. Academics and representatives of the government have a higher ceiling for discussion, including political issues. Chinese media have become more ongoing, while more and more Chinese people have access to foreign TV broadcasts. It should be assumed that these developments are also linked to intensified criticism in international forums and bilateral human rights dialogues. But there are also developments, on which the representative was involved, which give cause for concern. This applies, inter alia, to: recent arrests of political dissidents with the conviction of long prison sentences. This is also the background to the question of promoting a critical resolution in the UN Commission on Human Rights. The human rights situation in China will, of course, be addressed by Norway at the meeting of the forthcoming Human Rights Commission in Geneva. Whether it would be useful to promote a critical resolution will be discussed with like-minded countries, both now, before and during the meeting of the Human Rights Commission. More aspects will be considered here, including: the conclusion of such a resolution. It would be very little appropriate to promote a motion for a resolution on China, which is then voted down.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e893	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I now understand that the Government does not intend to go in and support such a resolution, and that this will be weak in its statements. In fact, I had hoped that the Government would show itself more strongly in the view of combating human rights violations in China, as well as taking initiatives to promote or support a resolution criticising China's human rights policy. I'm disappointed in the accident unit. In that case, the fight against human rights violations by Norway is not a matter of believing. Unfortunately, I am still left with a feeling that the Government may seem to be more concerned with environmental protection in China than with strengthening human rights. I hope that the Council of State can reassure me that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e902	I can reassure the representative with that. It's not about casualty. If the representative had been present during some of the talks that have been conducted by the Norwegian side, and also registered and compared text on posts that have been submitted by the Norwegian side in relation to the human rights situation in China, I think it would have been noted that there is no Norwegian emergency here. Nor will it be at the meeting of the Human Rights Commission in Geneva, where I am, among other things. will hold an opening post, and where there will be several occasions later to address the human rights situation in China. It has not been said from the Norwegian side that there is no support for a resolution. It has been said from the Norwegian side, as I said in my reply to the representative, that we are in contact with like-minded countries now, before and during the Commission's meeting. We will then, together with like-minded countries, assess whether it is appropriate and appropriate to promote a critical resolution. One of the most important points there would of course be the opening up of such a resolution. It would be very poor to promote a motion for a resolution on China which is then being voted down. In that case – in my opinion – the opposite of what I would like to adopt the representative sees as his wish has been achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e909	I thank you for your answer. I feel calm, and I hope the government will take along the signals that have come here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e916	We go to question 22.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e922	‘On 22 March 1999, the 55th session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights begins, where Norway is a member this year. There has recently been a worrying development in violations of human rights in China and not least in Tibet. Will Norway work towards the adoption of a resolution condemning these increased violations of human rights in China and the increasing repression of the Tibetans, who are becoming a minority in their own country?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e929	On behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in advance of this question, I have answered questions from the representative Danielsen about what measures the Norwegian Government intends to take in relation to the human rights situation in China, and will first refer to what was said there. There I pointed out, among other things. that China has now signed the Convention on Civil and Political Rights and the Convention on Social, Economic and Cultural Rights. The visit of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mary Robinson, and the invitation to the UN Special Rapporteur for Torture are also signals that China wants to cooperate with the international community in the field of human rights. At the same time, I share Mr Brende's concern for the development of human rights in China and Tibet. This applies, inter alia, to: arrests of dissidents, with the imposition of long prison sentences. As mentioned in the reply from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the human rights situation in China will of course be addressed by Norway at the forthcoming meeting of the Human Rights Commission in Geneva. The question of promoting a critical resolution will be discussed with like-minded countries — both now, before and during the meeting of the MR Commission. More aspects will be considered here, including: the conclusion of such a resolution. It would be very poor to promote a motion for a resolution on China which is then being voted down. Let me add that these assessments will, of course, also cover the situation in Tibet and our efforts to create more respect for the ethnic, cultural and religious identity of Tibetans. This question will also be raised by the Norwegian side under the Human Rights Commission in Geneva, I can promise the representative Burnde. However, following our assessment, it will be necessary for the authorities of Beijing to find a solution with the Dalai Lama. For this reason, we always encourage Chinese authorities to engage in real negotiations with the Tibetan religious leader, who is also regarded by one of the Norwegians as a moderating factor in the conflict in Tibet. It will be known that some exile Tibetans are starting to question the non-violence line. The situation in Tibet is also central to the Norwegian-Chinese human rights dialogue. Norway also supports several projects in Tibet through the University Studies Network. The network has a Norwegian representative in Lhasa, who through his work also provides us with useful help to understand the situation in Tibet.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e940	Like the Council of State, I would like to stress that there has been a negative development in China in a number of areas, especially with regard to the arrest of dissidents. We also see that developments in Tibet are very worrying. Hundreds of young people are arrested for just showing up a picture of the Dalai Lama in Lhasa Center. This is not acceptable. And Mary Robinson also concluded that the human rights violations in Tibet are very serious. But then the government's answer to my question as to whether it is right to promote a resolution condemning this, in Geneva. To this the Council of State says that the Government will assess whether it is appropriate. Then my question is: does the government think it is right to promote such a resolution? Should a resolution be adopted in Geneva condemning this? And if you think that such a resolution should be adopted, will the Norwegian authorities prepare the basis for it? There I think the Council's answer was a little thin.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e947	To complete the picture and show the complexity of the human rights situation, I will refer to a couple of positive developments that are also part of the picture. It is that the death penalty has fallen in China and that there are changes in the positive direction of criminal proceedings and the Rule of Law. But the situation is worse in a number of other areas, which the representative Børge Brende was also involved in. Regarding the question of promoting a resolution, I said in my reply that we are in contact with like-minded countries, both now – consultations are underway – before and during the Human Rights Commission meeting. In my opinion, it is at least appropriate to promote a resolution to be adopted. It could be a trump card for the country that Børge Burnde is concerned about criticising. So the most appropriate thing is not to promote a resolution which is seen to be voted down in the Chamber and which can be presented as a victory in relation to the international community. Based on the representative Burnde's position, I think he should have an understanding of the assessments made by the government, that, among other things. digestion is a key point in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e956	If Stortingen’s Question Time is to have any purpose, it is an advantage if the State Council tries to answer the questions asked. When it comes to the situation description of the whole problem complex, I don't think the government council and I'm very disagreed. I'm not skinny, so I've come to realize that it's not appropriate to have such a resolution voted down in the UN Commission on Human Rights. But my question is – and I hope that the Council of State can answer that: The Government of Bondevik promised to raise the human rights aspect of Norwegian foreign policy. Do you wish, and do you think it is timely that a resolution calling for violations of human rights, especially in Tibet and China, be adopted in Geneva? Is that what you're working for? You have to answer that. Is the reason why a resolution should be adopted on an absolutely timely basis? If you don't get a majority in the course of the process, that's okay, then we'll have to take note of it. But does the government, who wants to raise this problem, work on it as a starting point? I would like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e961	In all preparations for the Geneva Commission on Human Rights, we are preparing the basis for as offensive a line as possible in the field of human rights. It applies in general, and it also applies at this point. I can reassure the representative Brenne that we have close consultations. I have myself, for example. I have also discussed this with Lloyd Axworthy, the Canadian Minister for Foreign Affairs, two weeks ago. We are preparing the basis for as offensive a line as possible in this area. We're also in contact with the Americans, we're in contact with the EU community, and we're very closely following where the different countries lie and trying to prepare the ground for as offensive a line as possible. What we see now is that – for the time being at least – there does not seem to be going as far as the representative Børge Brende wants, a most critical resolution in relation to China. However, the run is not finished, and we still have consultations. In fact, I expect respect for us trying to put ourselves on a line as offensive as possible in the work of the Human Rights Commission. We need to find a solution to this problem through cooperation with like-minded countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e970	We're done with question 22 – Børge Brende is hopefully satisfied. So we go back to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e978	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be raised by the representative Benn Mikalsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e981	We have a question to the Council of State Angelsen: ‘The Vanna Group has purchased two jets from Russia, ‘Belomorsk’ and ‘Mir’, to fish for the Russian quota and deliver in the Municipality of Loppa in Finnmark. Vessels are refused access to Norway on the grounds that they have a history of being traffickers. Norway has now signed an agreement on fishing rights in the Norwegian zone of the sluttullnationen Island. In addition, several boats are fishing with dirthole history in the Norwegian zone. Will the State Council review this matter so that the trawls can deliver raw material in Finnmark?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e990	As you know, Norway, Russia and Iceland have concluded an agreement that will hopefully end the unregulated Icelandic fishing in the Smutthole. The agreement has not yet been signed and this will not be done until the corresponding protocols have been negotiated and the necessary constitutional treatment has been carried out. Therefore, in the light of the current situation, the Vanna Group will be informed that, until further notice, the authorities will not practise the legislation underpinning the refusal of «Mir» and «Belomorsk» access to Norwegian internal waters. Such a system must be considered as temporary until the entry into force of the Agreement and its Protocols.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e997	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I assume that the Council of State has taken into account in its assessment that it is not the «Mir» and «Belomorsk» catching machines that have committed environmental crime in the Dirt Hole, but the people behind the ships. We continue to register with satisfaction that our initiative to contribute to obtaining raw material for Bergsfjord in the municipality of Loppa has succeeded well along the way. Thank you to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1008	The background to the establishment of a regulation authorising vessels fishing in the Smutthole to refuse access to fishing in the Norwegian economic zone and to refuse access to internal Norwegian waters is the removal of the operational basis for the trawls operating such an unregulated fishing. It seems that it has had a great effect. It is the Government's intention to continue the practice and regulation we now have with regard to vessels fishing without regulation in the agreement on quotas between Norwegian and Russian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1016	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: ‘On a proposal from the Workers’ Party, the Stortinget decided in spring 1998 to request the Government to launch its own investigation as soon as possible with a view to amending the cross-ownership rules for financial institutions. With the imminent downturn in the Bank of Credit, it is urgent to change the strict deduction provisions. In this way, it may be easier to retain national ownership of the large banks. The government has not followed up the Storting's decision from last spring. Will the Government clean up this matter as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1025	Acting in accordance with the rules of 1 June 1990, 435 own funds shall be deducted from own funds of financial institutions within other financial institutions beyond the thresholds laid down in Article 7(e) and (f), the cross-ownership provisions. For the purposes of point (e), the own funds of the institution shall be deducted from the book values of own funds of other financial institutions which exceed 2 pst. of the own funds of the receiving financial institution. For the purposes of point (f), the book values of own funds not deducted under point (e) shall be deducted for the part of the sum of such own funds exceeding 10 pst. of the own funds of the financial institution. The background of the rules is the desire to counteract so-called domino effects, i.e. the infectivity of health problems in a financial institution in other financial institutions. One has wanted to avoid multiple use of the same krona to meet the requirements on own funds. As a result of Storting’s decision in the spring of 1998, the Ministry of Finance, in a letter dated 18 May last year, asked the Banking Commission to assess the cross-ownership rules. The issue has been addressed in study No. 4 of the Banking Law Commission, cf. Now 1998:14 Financial corporations, etc. The majority of the Banking Law Commission is in favour of continuing the applicable rules on the deduction of all financial institutions, while a minority considers that the rules on deduction are not applicable to insurance companies. The investigation was sent to the hearing on 25 September 1998, with a deadline of 31 December. The credit supervision has expressed its opinion in its opinion that, on the basis of a soundness and supervisory assessment, the provisions should continue to apply to insurance undertakings, but at the same time provides some elements that can be used as arguments if a certain adjustment to the rules would be appropriate. The Ministry of Finance, by letter of 13 January 1999, has asked the Banking Authority for a complete and concrete recommendation. Furthermore, in a letter dated 26 January 1999, the Credit Authority was asked to elaborate on some other issues that have been specifically addressed. I know that the credit supervision will deal with the matter at the board meeting today, March 17. I am positively prepared to make a certain decoration of the rules for the insurance companies, as the Stortinget has asked. I do not think it appropriate to draw any final conclusion here and now. I want to pay great attention to the advice of the Credit Authority. I am aiming at a decision as soon as possible and will then, at the latest in the revised national budget, explain the process. In connection with the forthcoming sale of the state's shares in the credit fund, I would like to stress that the current rules will not prevent the purchase of shares by financial institutions. The financial position of institutions indicates that there is a significant margin for the purchase of bank shares without jeopardising compliance with the statutory minimum capital requirement, even if the cross-ownership provisions require deduction of own funds. Updated numbers per. The third quarter of 1998 shows that the financial institutions were able to purchase a total of EUR 45 billion in financial shares and still meet the capital requirement of EUR 8 billion. The potential of life insurance companies to make purchases of such shares was probably NOK 4 billion. For non-life insurance enterprises, the corresponding amount will be approx. $8 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1042	I'm going to thank the Minister of Finance for the answer. This has been slow, I have to say it. After two rounds in Stortinget, I had expected the Minister of Finance to have come a little further in his assessment – he must be drawn a little in the direction that Stortinget thinks is correct. Now the finance minister himself has pointed out that the credit supervision is more positive, and Norway Bank is positive. So the large financial industry agencies, both on the supervisory side and on the operator's side, want a significant relaxation of the rules. When it comes to the current situation, it is clear that life companies, like other investors, sometimes make changes in the composition of their portfolio. Different conditions such as risk structure and international trends may be blamed. However, it should not be such that temporary and situation-related changes in the life companies' portfolios should be superior to the policy objective: to facilitate greater Norwegian ownership interests in relation to investors in financial institutions. It is therefore necessary to amend the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1051	I cannot agree that the government has been particularly slow in this matter. Immediately after the Stortinget made its decision, we instructed the Banking Law Commission to give its investigation. It came last autumn. As soon as the investigation was available, it was sent to the hearing, and after the hearing was over, we have for two rounds, two letters, asked the Credit Authority for a specific recommendation. This is such a complicated matter that you have to follow normal rules of procedure. I have signaled a positive willingness to make a decoration in relation to the insurance companies. But as I also explained at the end of my answer, there is no problem for insurance companies today to buy as many shares as they want in the credit fund. Indeed, there is capacity in insurance companies far beyond what is likely to be the sales total of the shares to be sold in the credit fund now with the first.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1058	I'll thank you again. The Minister of Finance knows that there is a number in the Chamber that will soften the rules, and there are only such formal things as that the Labour Party does not want to instruct the Government through a Document No. Eight proposals, which have not been accepted. We have had a wish from the Labour Party that the Government will do the necessary work, and then come back to Stortinget with it. In fact, the Storting said this should come early in the New Year. This should be a thorough job, but if you have a positive setting and you want to change it, you can make it a little faster. Of course, I'm a little unsure whether it's okay that this comes into the revised national budget, but okay, I'm going to accept it – then while the rules are being changed. I respect the fact that the Minister of Finance will wait for his meeting and decision, but if he shows a positive attitude to this – and so does the Credit Authority – this would be a good thing. And it doesn't have to be the situation right now that is going to be decisive, it's the long-term goals that are important.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1067	I think that the wish of the majority of the population and my wish are quite consistent in this matter. I have a positive attitude to soften the rules for insurance companies. But I have pointed out that this is not necessary to give them the opportunity to buy shares in the credit fund, they already have the capacity. Back to what I said: As soon as the investigation from the Banking Law Commission was available, it was sent to the hearing with the normal consultation deadline – that was the last day last year. I understand that you would like to have a quick reaction to the new year. However, we also had to follow up the hearing opinions of the Credit Authority, which were based on the fact that the cross-ownership provisions should not be changed, but there were some slightly more positive views in the credit supervision opinion, and I would have suggested something more clearly about that. It's the work that's now going on, which is hopefully being concluded today on the board of the Credit Authority. Then I'll follow it up. The change I expect will come before the revised national budget – this is a regulatory matter, and I will explain to the European Council in the revised national budget what changes have been made, but the actual change may happen before.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1079	I have the following questions for the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘The media have concluded that the Government of Bondevik has negotiated an agreement on gold cards with SAS, with all the resulting advantages, without obtaining the necessary points. Is such discrimination compatible with EEA rules on discrimination and non-discrimination?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1088	I can initially inform the representative Hegna that the government has not negotiated a separate agreement on gold cards with SAS. I would therefore like to stress that what has been said in the media about this matter is partly misleading and wrong. Since 1 April 1998, the State has had a bonus agreement with SAS, which has been concluded following an international tendering procedure in accordance with the EEA Government Procurement Code. This agreement applies to all government employees, including the Government, and provides an equal opportunity to earn bonuses from their own travel activities. However, points earned in connection with private service claims are not permitted. This applies to all users of the agreement. As the Government is also covered by the SAS bonus agreement, the individual State Council has the possibility to be the holder of a gold card based on its own travel activities. The Prime Minister’s office has recently defined guidelines according to which each department can apply to SAS for gold cards, so that government councils can benefit from the service elements provided by the card. It is thus SAS which, upon application and a concrete assessment, can give selected customers or groups of customers the opportunity to use the advantages of a gold card, without the individual traveller himself necessarily having earned enough award credits to qualify for this level of service. I would like to stress that the members of the Government are not given any special advantages by using these cards in addition to the services contained in the card. Furthermore, each department has to apply for a gold card to the Council of State. There's no automation in this. Procedures have also been put in place to ensure that the points made in connection with the travel activities of the Council of State can be used for other service claims in the Ministry, which are otherwise in line with the usual use of the EuroBonus scheme. I would like to stress once again that the gold card scheme mentioned for the members of the Government is only an administrative follow-up to a state-wide very good bonus agreement, and that it does not involve any personal advantages for the government councils in addition to what is required by any gold card holder and offered by SAS. I also cannot see that there is anything relevant in this case in relation to the EEA principle of non-discrimination or non-discrimination on a national basis, as the representative Hegna suggests. The agreement with SAS, as mentioned at the outset, has been concluded following an open international tendering procedure in accordance with the applicable law and regulations on public procurement, and all conditions in relation to those principles should therefore be well respected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1105	Of course, the most interesting thing is not the issue of EEA legislation. I perceived it at least so that the Council of State still believes that the Council of State should benefit from the benefits of the card, without the necessary points being earned. Then I think the interesting thing is whether the government thinks it's okay that people are made different, in the sense that someone has to earn the necessary points to benefit from benefits, while others don't have to earn enough points until they get the same benefits. Does the government think it's okay that there's such a difference between people? I know the government is working on a message about Difference Norway. Does the Council of State consider this to be appropriate in such a context?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1114	This is an opportunity offered by SAS to the state because the state is a big customer. As I've said, it's up to each department to choose whether to apply SAS for gold cards, whether it's to the Council of State or perhaps to others who travel a lot. What the Prime Minister's office has done is to set out guidelines for this to be handled in a tidy manner. I would like to point out once again that it is not permitted to take out points for private use or in any other way to gain benefits in addition to what is in this card.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1121	I just want to say briefly that then I have to perceive it so that the government thinks it is okay that the councils get benefits that others do not get, without having done what is going on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1126	Just a brief comment: I note that the representative Hegna believes that the departments should not avail themselves of this opportunity offered by SAS.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1134	I've had the pleasure of asking the Minister of Defence many questions before, but now I'm going to be able to ask a question to the Minister of Transport: ‘The region now receives a lower ferry offer after the new M/F Stavanger is removed from the Tau link and replaced by old ferries. It was supposed to be half an hour's departure, but now it looks like it's just to get away from the traffic peaks. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the upgrading of the holiday equipment adopted is followed up, possibly what will be done to ensure half-hour frequency of the Tau connection?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1149	Since Minister of Defence Fjærvoll has previously had the pleasure of answering some questions from the representative of Langeland, it is nice that the Minister of Transport can do so today with the same name. Let me then say to the question: Following regular proceedings between the State Road Administration and the Shipowners Landsforening, the 1999 ferry disposal plan was cleared in October last year. The potential for improvement of the supply in the route network in the West has been considered in retrospect. In Rogaland, this connection concerns Mortavika – Arsvågen, where, due to traffic growth, it has been desirable to have a third ferry, which also ensures half an hour’s frequency. According to the holiday disposal plan, M/F “Stavanger” is currently used in the Mortavika – Arsvågen connection as a replacement ferry for periodic maintenance. Ferja is assumed to be back in the Tau connection before the Palm Sun. Due to the scarce material situation in other counties, it has not been possible to obtain an appropriate rental ferry. Currently, the road manager of Rogaland and Rogaland Traffic Company AS, assisted by the Directorate of Roads, is working to find a solution replacing M/F ‘Stavanger’ in the Tau connection with two other ferries. These shall together have the corresponding capacity. It's a goal to clarify this this week. Rogaland Traffic Company AS takes over three new national road ferries during the year. New builders will provide a significant upgrade of holiday equipment and services in the county. I expect the route offer using three ferries in the Tau connection to be adapted to the transport needs within a given economic framework. Because capacity is maintained and the number of ferries is increasing, the frequency in the connection will increase.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1162	The representative of Langeland is given the floor to follow up on ferries – I had almost said frigates.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1165	Yes, President, it is also an interesting theme! Let me first say that I miss a part of the answer from the Council of State when it comes to upgrading the ferry equipment, because it's clear that some of the ferries that go in different connections in Norwegian fjords are in a wretched constitution. The size has said that this material will be upgraded. Then it is also important for the commuters in the Tau connection to know that the ferry material being inserted there will be of top quality – even some known commuters will be pleased with it. So my question is, what action will be taken in this context? When it comes to the second part, which goes on with frequency, I perceive the Minister of Transport so that the frequency of departures in the Tau connection is now becoming more significant.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1174	It is true that if the choice to talk about this week goes into boxing, the frequency of the conversation will increase. That's correctly understood. I then assume that the agreements and negotiations bring us to the goal. Then I need to stress that there is no half-hour frequency in the Tau connection today, and there is no requirement for it in connection with the new ferries – this for information. As regards the last part of the question — what the Council of State will do to ensure that the upgrading of the holiday equipment adopted is followed up — it is right that the Council of State has not today given a binding answer. But what I can sketch about progress is that this will come back within a reasonable time, and it will also be natural for this to be mentioned in the context of the revised national budget in May.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1183	Just to be on the safe side: I perceive the Minister of Transport that, first of all, he will follow closely the developments in the Tau connection, and second, he will make sure that the frequency gets better, so that the commuters get what they need. I just want it to be verified. Now, if the state council makes sure that the commuters are satisfied in this connection, Langeland will also be pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1190	I'm a little unsure whether it's possible to satisfy both commuters and Langeland at the same time, but if possible, the Minister of Transport will try it out. And the contacts and negotiations that will be this week, I expect to bring the result that Langeland wants and has called for. I will follow closely, both in the connection we have now talked about, and in the case of developments on the ferries side, and to the extent possible, to facilitate the use of available material so that the commuters experience their situation as being reasonably satisfactory – although I cannot guarantee that all objectives will be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1227	These questions are subject to agreement between the Council of State and the questioners to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1234	I have the following questions for the Minister of Social Affairs: ‘In the case of journeys in EU countries, Norwegian nationals who comply with the provisions of the Social Security Act are entitled to treatment in the country in which the disease or injury occurs: [[reference form E 111]] Can the Council of State consider the possibility that a certificate is issued once a year confirming that the holder is entitled to the treatment E 111 refers to?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1243	Form E 111 is used to document the right to cover expenditure on health services through emergency assistance during temporary residence in EEA countries other than the country responsible for social security. The right to obtain Form E 111 from Norway is granted to all citizens of an EEA country who, by virtue of their constitution or work in Norway, are members of the public and are members of the public domain covered by the EEA Agreement as regards the coordination of social security rights within the EEA territory. So it's a right that's not just a Norwegian citizen. In most cases, it is the local social security office that will leave and certify form E 111. It is clear from the Rikstrøgdeverket’s guidelines that he will travel for a more limited period of up to one year. When it comes to the time for which he is due, the Swedish Social Security Agency has also given notice to the Social Security Office that one should leave the form for an entire year. After I have been informed, the established practice in the social security system is consistent with the fact that the form is normally given for one year at a time. There may be special conditions making the social security office unable to print out the form for a whole year. For example, this would be the case if the social security office had information to suggest that membership of the population would be lifted earlier. Form E 111 is common to the whole EEA territory and legally binding for all Member States. There is no other common social security certificate that is accepted as evidence of the right to such healthcare, while staying in all the other EEA countries. In the North, we have agreed that there is no need for the form. The corresponding United Kingdom debt, but here a passport must be shown. Both for the public and for the social security system, it is important that the system of form E 111 functions efficiently and smoothly. It is important that one can obtain the certificate in a short time. The Rikstrøgdeverket has therefore been informed that the individual user can ask for the form either over the phone, per choice. letters or at a personal appearance at the social security office. It has also been suggested that the certificate of origin should always be provided on the same day as the Social Security Office receives the request. The Rikstrøgdeverket has also assessed a system of automatic transmission of the certificate at the beginning of the calendar year, but at present this cork is better, more practical or more cost-effective. After the signals I've been given, the Swedish National Agency's guidelines for printing the form are followed in a satisfactory way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1256	I thank the Council of State for the answer – which, of course, I am not satisfied with. I understand that the Council of State has been informed that this is the case, but I can tell the Council of State that, in the case of Stavanger Social Security Office, they look forward to a day-to-day life that is different from what it is today. In some parts of the year there are large cows to get this form. And it has to be possible in today's world to get a plastic card like what I have in my fist here, which you can have with all the other cards you have, and which tells you what rights you have. Among other things, this is the case. in the case of non-life insurance and travel insurance, and it must be possible to obtain the same from the social security office in this field. Will the Council of State look at the possibility of getting a more flexible system for this that can satisfy both customer and social security offices, when both parties are engaged in getting a different scheme from the one we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1265	I have given my answer based on the information I have received from the Swedish National Agency on how the legislation that we have today works, and also on the conclusion that the guidelines are being followed in a satisfactory way. I hear what the representative Jan Johnsen is saying, and the example he's using, and I'm totally in agreement with what he's pointing out here, that it's not in this area added to the Social Security Office should spend much of its time. So I take the signals that the representative Johnsen has come up with, and I want to support a more thorough investigation into how much time the social security offices have to spend on this question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1272	I thank you for the answer that the Council of State gave, which I think was very satisfactory. I understand that the Council of State has understood the point that I came up with, namely to make it easier and more flexible for both the customer and the social security office. And I can inform the Council of State that the representative Jan Johnsen would like to go into a group that can participate and look at this, if it could facilitate the work, without taking five cents for it. I think we're going to come up with a plan if we just get the opportunity to look at it, and I'm going to assume that the Council of State is setting down a group or asking someone to look at this, so that for next year we get a little more professional order than what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1279	The representative Jan Johnsen has previously raised questions on the basis of an attitude to improve supply, measures and legislation that we have today, both for users and for those who are going to administer this legislation. I would like to thank you for your efforts on this matter. Let me not at this time advance any other solution than the one that is today, but let me emphasize that I shall go more closely through the practice that is today, based on the example that Jan Johnsen presented here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1287	This question, from Bendiks H. Arnesen's representative to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Employment and Administrative Affairs who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1290	I then allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Employment and Administration, who addresses them: ‘According to a survey conducted by the Ministry of Labour and Administration, only 362 out of 126 000 State employees are disabled and disabled. In St.meld. [[1998-99]] No 8 On the 1998 Disability Action Plan, it is argued that disabled people are an important labour force resource and that the objective is to increase the participation of people with disabilities in employment. Then why is the proportion of people with disabilities just 0.3 pst. by state employees, and what will the Council of State do to improve this relationship?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1299	The country where the employer has, in line with the employers' side in the private and municipal sectors, has so far not done enough with regard to the integration of people with disabilities into the labour market. This is something we just have to admit. Still, we've done a lot, and we're going to do more in the future. The government's objective of using the entire population in the labour market remains constant. In the State Staff Manual, government agencies are encouraged to express their views on how the workplace is organised for different groups of disabled persons. Section 9 of the Civil Service Act was amended in 1996 to make it easier for people with disabilities to get a job in the country. Provided that the disabled person is qualified for the job, it is now open for state establishments to choose to add a qualified disability rather than the person most qualified for the job. The Ministry of Labour and Administration wants to keep itself informed of developments in the State sector in this area and is therefore aiming at carrying out annual surveys. In addition to providing the Ministry with an overview of developments, such surveys will have a conscious effect on government employers. The first survey was carried out in 1998. The corresponding survey is carried out in these days in the departments with the underlying establishments, with a reply deadline of 1 April. The 1998 survey showed that it was about 350 persons with disabilities or persons with occupational disabilities in the country. It's not a high number. At the same time, you might not have to focus too much on this number. It is not systematically recorded in the personnel registers of government enterprises if the employees are disabled. Health information is information which must be specifically authorised for registration under Section 6 of the Personal Register Act. Neither are all those who want to be categorised as disabled because they may have a hidden disability. In order to recruit more disabled and disabled people into the State sector, the Ministry will focus on raising awareness and informing government employers. This concerns both the information on the labour resource represented by the disabled and the financial support schemes available. During the current year, the Ministry will prepare an information brochure that will be sent to all government employers. The emphasis will be on disabled persons and work, and what should be done to strengthen the recruitment of disabled persons to the State sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1322	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The survey I referred to was to be read in the newspaper Notabene, and was thus carried out by the State Council's own department. I have to say I'm worried about what I'm reading here, because the state was supposed to go ahead with a good example in this area as well. I do not believe that disability itself is a qualification for a job in the state, but here there can hardly be a proper relationship between the number of employees and access to disabled persons with the qualifications requested. In my view, it is difficult to argue with municipalities and county councils, and not least with private businesses, in terms of employing more disabled people, when the State itself, as an employer, has no more to point to. I am aware that the Council of State has been in the department for a short time, but it might be interesting to ask if it is, for example. physical or equipment availability which is the problem. I also want to ask: how many disabled people are employed in the State Council's own department? Maybe I could also expand that question: what about the Ministry of Social Affairs in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1331	It is not difficult to agree with the representative that what has so far come out of the effort is too bad. I'm glad that the representative Arnesen understands a new Council of States. With regard to the number of employees in my own department or in the Ministry of Social Affairs, I regret that I cannot answer that, but it is possible to come back to that. When it comes to equipment issues, I can't really answer if it's the biggest problem – other than that I want to point out that when it comes to the organisation of e.g. distance work for disabled persons has started cooperation between the Labour Market Act and the Organisation for the Common Organisation of Disability with regard to a project called FunkWork. The aim here is to exploit the benefits that information technology can bring, both in terms of home workplaces and other workplace organisation. This project is three years old.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1342	I think this question is very important. In my work on disabled people, I have experienced what work means for having a good sense of self-esteem and respect from society. I therefore hope the Council of State will address this, because, as I said, it is very important that the State, which gives recommendations and rules to others, even goes ahead with a good example. I think that is absolutely necessary in order to succeed in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1347	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Arnesen, for raising this question. We are in the process of taking some measures – there will be no time to get into everything in one minute. Some of the measures have recently been launched and will be followed up, and some have to work for a while. As I have said, we will continue this important work. I think we're pretty much in line with how important it is for people with disabilities to have work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1357	This question, from the representative Karin Andersen to the social minister, will be raised by the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1360	‘Compulsory cut of 55 million. crowns in funds for technical aids have led to new rules for the allocation of facilities to dyslexics and students with read and write problems based on capability/IQ tests. Could the Ministry provide a technical justification for using such a outdated and inappropriate measuring instrument, and what kind of consequences does this have for persons who have low results on such tests?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1367	Following the transfer of responsibility for school aids from the municipality and the county to the population in 1997, support for school aids has grown very rapidly. This is particularly true for IT tools. According to information from the Rikstrygdeverket, 90-95 pst. of the applications for IT aids in the school, giving reasons why the student/student has difficulty in reading and writing. I have been informed that among those who have been allocated computer equipment because of reading and writing difficulties so far, there are many who have less difficulty. A working group of members of the Ministry of Education, Education and Research, National Educational Centre, Professional Unit for PP-tenesta, Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the National Research Agency (Rikstrygdeverket) presented the report ‘Financing IT facilities for disabled pupils and apprentices and the organisation of dissemination’. The working groups referred, inter alia, to: that it was necessary to examine more closely the criteria and requirements for distribution which should lead to the granting of school-based data equipment, and in particular in relation to people with difficulty in reading and writing. When most users of IT facilities need special instruction, an individual training plan should be developed for them according to the training laws. The individual training plan shall have objectives for the subject and shall further mention the teaching material, tools, working methods and organisation of the training. The working group suggested that an individual training plan should be included in the application for IT facilities. Furthermore, in order to allow elephants and apprentices with reading and writing difficulties to obtain computers from the population, it was suggested that the difficulties should be so serious that the student/student has found specific reading and writing problems/dyslexia after the examination. This needs to be verified in the form of a professional output from the PP service. The proposal implies that people with «lighter» reading and writing difficulties fall outside the responsibility of the population. A pedagogical organisation of the training situation for these students and apprentices is the responsibility of the school and the apprenticeship company. In the examination of the 1999 budget, Stortinget concluded: ‘to introduce a more restrictive approach to the allocation of IT resources to people with reading and writing difficulties and to allow only students/students who have received dyslexia after testing. The measure is expected to provide a saving of 55 million. crowns’.» In its letter of 14 December 1998, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health instructed the National Agency to implement the measures necessary for the implementation of the scheme from 1 January 1998. The measure means that there has been a cross-border rise between the population and the school’s responsibility for facilitating the educational situation for people with reading and writing difficulties. The school/PP service is responsible for recruiting the student or apprentice, taking into account the extent of reading and writing difficulties. The distribution requires extensive monitoring, where one looks at the learning situation and the intentions in general. As a tool in the distribution work in the PP service, standardised tests are often used, for example. developed by Scan Centre. It is misleading to call these tests IQ tests. They shall not be used to determine the student's IQ. The Help Centre takes decisions and takes action on the basis of information provided in the application, including: an expert statement from the PP service.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1387	There's a reason to think that the bulk of the population decided, that's a cut of 55 million. kr in IT aids at school, was little thought. The consequence of the decision is that there is a need to demonstrate the existence of difficulties in reading and writing. If, therefore, the reason for reduced reading skills is another — that would be, for example, a reduced level of ability — then, after the decision taken by the Stortinget, active measures must be taken to ensure that those students with a reduced level of ability do not have access to school aids. I would like to ask the Council of State: Is it reasonable that it would be possible to use resources for testing in school via the PP service, and then to unlock those students who do not have read and write difficulties based on a purely medical definition, but who then have a generally reduced level of ability? Then you use those resources, and say that that group should not get that kind of help, because here it is the resource strength that can be helped – because it is read and write that is the cause of the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1394	No intelligence tests will be performed. Nor is it a document that tells of the intelligence of the individual who is to form the basis for the allocation of data resources funded by the public interest. The background to the establishment of the working group to which I referred was the need to clarify what should be the responsibility of the people, and what should be the responsibility of each municipality, according to the difficulties that each individual has. In 1997, there were 35 million. NOK for IT aid, and 75-80 million was used. kr. In 1998, it went about $180 million. NOK to aid in the education sector, of which approximately 165 million. kr for elephants with difficulty reading and writing. It says something about the increase and the need to do something about the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1401	IT aids are now coming into the community as a whole. For example, the fact that all Statoil employees were allocated IT resources shows the importance of industry, including state-owned, putting this on – it was assumed that gains would be made in terms of increased working capacity and the control of IT resources. Even in school, in line with society else, IT aids are seen to be more widely used than in the past. It is also quite natural, as the students will learn to do this before they are later going into a job. Based on the representation of the Council of State here, one can get the impression that there is a suspicious overrun of the budget and a development in the expenditure sector that has to be brought to life. However, I would like to ask the Council of State if it is not possible to see the opposite, namely that expenditure makes the need for technical assistance available at school visible, and that in the long term a plan is needed, whether it is via the Rikstrøgdeverket or the municipalities, in order to get an extended offer of IT facilities to students at school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1408	I have a clear sense that I am now entering the Minister of Education and Research’s field – but as a former teacher it is tempting! Let me tell Ballo's last post: there's no doubt that computer aids in school are important. Moreover, there is no doubt that the potential needs to be strengthened in relation to today’s situation. But there should also be no doubt that it is important in relation to the state budget to sort what should be its responsibility. And that's what we've been trying to do here: the municipalities are responsible for the easy read and write difficulties, and the people's rights have a responsibility where it can be demonstrated that there is no match between the level of reading and writing and the level of ability. I'm sorry that it's been produced as if it's been used in intelligence. It should not be used.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1435	These questions have been decided upon on a deferred basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1441	This question, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Health, will be answered by Social Minister Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1444	My question, originally to the Minister of Health, I ask the Honourable Minister of Social Affairs to answer: ‘In implementing the country’s new contract policy, the Ministry has defined four medical specialists in Telemark who are currently working as general practitioners not to be entitled to an operating contract. However, the county has indicated that they would like to set up a contractual home with the specialists, but have not been transferred funds to do so. Will the Council of State contribute to the provision of funds for the Telemark County Municipality to set up contractual homes with the four medical specialists in question?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1453	The follow-up last year by county councils and municipalities to the new agreement policy resulted in 1,380 doctors, psychologists and physiotherapists who had previously had practices without an operating agreement, being given an operating agreement with the county or municipality from 1 July 1998. The new operating arrangements are approximately equivalent. Eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty. The good result was primarily the result of the State grant scheme established in the context of the reform. The purpose of the grant scheme was to ensure, in the interests of both patients and the professionals concerned, the continuation of the existing offer of private practitioners as far as possible. Without an operating agreement, professionals would not receive social security suspension after 1 July 1998 and the offer would either be significantly more expensive for patients or be closed. Through the new policy, the objective was achieved and the services were much cheaper for patients. The criteria for State grants to new operating agreements concluded in the context of the reform were determined on the basis of those objectives. The professionals who would be affected by the amendments to the Law on Social Security were professionals who had a reimbursable practice without an operating agreement. The fact that the professional had such a practice was therefore also laid down as a condition for any operating agreement to be eligible for grants. This condition was included when the grant scheme was presented to and was endorsed by the Stortinget. Two groups of practitioners were not affected by the legislative changes and were not covered by the grant scheme – non-reimbursement professionals and professionals who already had an operating contract. The doctors mentioned in the question are in the latter category. They have a municipal operating agreement and have consequently maintained the right to reimbursement even after 1 July 1998. In addition to the general medical tariffs, they also have the opportunity to use the procedural tariffs within their speciality. Instead of contributing to the continuation of existing offers, state grants to county operating agreements with doctors would have contributed to the termination of existing general medical practice. In my opinion, this would not only conflict with the grant scheme as it was designed, but also with the purpose of the scheme. In addition, for reasons of non-discrimination, an amended position in these cases would require the opening of a new application round for all counties in a situation similar to that of Telemark. The Ministry expects the reform to be completed at the turn of the year 1998-99, in the sense that there is a full explanation of the new operating agreements which receive State subsidies. Of course, Telemark County may establish operational agreements with the doctors concerned, provided that it does so within the framework of the ministry as provided for in the new medical facility.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1466	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the field of ear, nose and neck there are no practitioners in Telemark. According to the official waiting time reports, there are up to 12 months waiting time for simple ear, nose and neck operations. The Ministry's restrictive interpretation of which activities fulfil the conditions and the implementation of the reform seems to me to be strongly contrary to the spirit of the Storting when decisions were taken on the reform. What will the Council of State do to ensure the provision of specialist health services to the patients concerned in Telemark, who today count over 1000 people?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1471	I answer on behalf of the Minister of Health, and the representative of Alvheim has received an answer from the question he has asked when it relates to contractual housing for the four medical specialists concerned. Then he points to a situation that I naturally don't know in detail. He points both to a long wait and to a situation that he thinks is not in accordance with the spirit of Storting. I'm going to say that I'm going to be handed over to the Minister of Health, and then he's going to evaluate whether there's a need for further action in relation to what's already been done and clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1478	I thank you again for the answer, and I understand that it is difficult to answer on behalf of the Minister of Health. We've heard, and are still hearing away, that there is a shortage of medical specialists in this country. Then it's a cross of thought for me that the specialists who currently really work as general practitioners are not allowed to perform their specialist service in the second line service because they make rigorous regulations and have particularly rigorous interpretations of decisions taken here in the Stortinget. My last question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State consider it reasonable to use scarce specialist resources that four medical specialists in Telemark still have to work as general practitioners?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1487	I would like to refer to the last section of my first answer, where I said that Telemark County Municipality can of course create operating agreements with the bodies concerned, under the condition that it happens within the framework of the department established, as part of the new regulation system for medical facilities. It is Telemark County that here needs to assess the type of services they need, and the emphasis they will place on the more specialised services and on general medical practice, which is also needed. But, as I said, what Mr Alvheim is pointing out here, I am going to go further to the Minister of Health for an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1497	I have the following questions for our Honourable Minister of Justice: ‘From 22 March 1999, Sea King shall be established standby at Rygge Main Aviation Station. It has been a prerequisite by decision in Stortinget that it should not be an 85 pst. Preparedness to which it is added but a 100 pst. [[completed]] Stand by. Furthermore, the aim is to establish 15 minutes of standby 24 hours a day, as proposed by the Fostervoll Committee. Will the Council of State make sure that it is established on the Back a nearly 100 pst. Prepare as it is in the Sola, Ørland, Bodø and Banak?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1506	In recent years, the government has assessed in several contexts improvements in today’s rescue helicopter preparedness. In this context, a reinforced rescue helicopter preparedness in the Oslofjorden has been one of the objectives. The government is currently working on a major message on the rescue helicopter service, where the question of the preparedness of the various rescue helicopters is a central theme. The government is concerned that Norway should have a good and well-functioning rescue helicopter service. The starting point for the work of the Government is that it should be the same as on all rescue helicopters. Pending the processing of the Storing Communication, a temporary solution has been developed to strengthen the rescue helicopter preparedness in Oslofjorden. As the representative Hedstrøm points out, a Sea King rescue helicopter will be placed on the Back on 22 March. This will contribute to a greater possibility for the rescue helicopter service in Oslofjorden to carry out rescue operations at sea. The Sea King helicopter will be on standby 24 hours a day, except in the event of a breakdown due to maintenance, technical problems, etc. The Sea King helicopter is a fully-fledged rescue helicopter that is well-suited for marine rescue. The Sea King helicopter will therefore enhance the rescue capacity of the Oslo Earth and Skagerrak. The Bell helicopter that has so far been prepared for Back has limited possibilities for performing rescue operations at sea but is suitable for rescue operations on land and near the coast. The preparedness that has so far been maintained by the Bell helicopters on the Back will fall away, I refer here to the description in the Ministry of Defence's budget proposal. I would like to address the emergency situation in the Oslo soil with the Minister of Defence with a view to improving the preparedness of the Bell helicopters, so that there will be 100 pst. standby in the Oslo soil until the helicopter standby is assumed to be permanently enhanced in the follow-up to the forecasting. I would like to stress that one has to look at the overall picture of the emergency response in Oslofjord. This is an area where there are many rescue resources, and where there is close and good cooperation with the main rescue centre in South Norway and the rescue centres in Gothenburg and Aarhus, so that, if necessary, you can get helicopter support from there. So there is no worrying situation as the ministry sees it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1519	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I think was entirely satisfactory. When the Minister of Justice now contacts the Minister of Defence, there will be practically a solution to this, as the Bell Quadron has already been placed at the Rogge Main Air Station and has previously had a 24-hour standby. A practical solution to this would be 100 pst. This will certainly take place, but of course it will have budgetary implications. The fact that the Bell helicopters are stationed on the Back and have a reasonable operating situation means that, in the case of the additional costs of full, continuous standby, and the add-on of 15 pst. for the Bell helicopters, come out very reasonably. Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I'm pretty sure there's a solution here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1530	The representative Hedstrom and I have it in common that we want to find practical solutions when we have challenges. However, I am not the Minister of Defence by constitution. I cannot therefore speak on behalf of the Minister of Defence. But I can repeat what I said in my answer, that I want to make such a contact, and of course I want to investigate all the possibilities to get a practical solution. I would also, of course, like to ensure that the question is addressed in the context of the notification to be submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1535	Question 22 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1568	These questions are put to the vote. Case No. 1 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-17.ana.ud1923e1579	There is no record.
