ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e37	The regulatory time for the evening meeting is now over, but the President will propose that this meeting continue until the current map is dealt with — and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e49	The overall proposal on the law on changes in the law on social security and in some other laws contains some material changes partly linked to the draft budget for the year 2000 and some legislative adjustments and clarifications of practices. The Committee unanimously supports the proposal that voluntary and compulsory initial services be equated with the future calculation of disability pension credits, so that women are also included in years of voluntary initial service. Similarly, the Committee agrees with the Ministry that persons who are a member of the public pension during holiday stays should be covered by the costs of dialysis and oxygen treatment abroad to the same extent as in the EEA territory and support the proposal to that effect. The Committee also agrees that, in exceptional cases, rehabilitation funds may be granted during activation, etc. also with non-self-employed employers. Nor is there any comment that the Board of Directors of the Vinmonopolet determines the salary of the CEO or that the People's Rights Act § 8-19 fourth paragraph specifies the applicable law. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Right, refers to the fact that the minimum income base for entitlement to sickness benefits from public security was raised from 50 p.m. to 125 pst. of the basic amount from 1 January 1999 as part of a budgetary austerity for that year. This majority supports the proposal to align this lower income limit to 50 p.m. of the basic amount, as announced in St.prp. No 67 for 1998-1999. The majority refers to the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party and therefore proposes that the amendment be implemented from 1 January 2000. The members of the Committee from the Right refer to the continuation of today’s rules by the Right in their alternative budget. The majority of the Committee also agrees that basic support for telephone teams is provided only in exceptional cases. The basic support scheme to cover additional costs for mobile phones and text telephones is proposed to be maintained. The members of the Committee will vote against this proposal because they fear that the scheme will lead to more clients with a real need refrain from applying and that need testing will lead to the rejection of too many applications. The majority of the committees, the members of the Workers' Party and the government parties support the proposal that the employee's own health status should not affect the employer's obligation to pay care allowances in the event of the illness of children or children's carers, so that the second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 9-8 of the National Social Security Act is deleted. The Progress Party, the Right and the Socialist Left are afraid that this can help to put a greater burden on jobs that have added chronically ill people and will vote against this proposal. Proposals are made for a change in the law authorising the establishment of a bank account by beneficiaries of payments from the establishment with a professional link with the establishment of a bank account. The majority of the Committee agrees, but the members of the Progress Party will not support a proposal to impose the creation of such an account. The majority of the Committee, all except the Party of Advancement and the Right, also support the proposal to allow for extended access to self-declared sick leave combined with extended self-declaration. An overall committee agrees that the roll-out decision on testing arrangements, which removes referral requirements from doctors to chiropractor, should lead to a corresponding change in the law on social security at this point. The Committee stresses the importance of a thorough evaluation of these trials. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e70	After the statements by the rapporteur, I do not have much to add. I just want to make a few small comments. The Progress Party will refer to the developments that have taken place in recent years, where a reduction in the basic aid has taken place in several areas. However, reference may be made here to the fact that both the reduction made to diabetics and the removal of the special tax deduction provided better benefits in some other areas that reduced to some extent the effect of the loss of the basic benefit. Unfortunately, this does not seem to be the case with the change made in § 6-3. In the event of a loss of basic support for the telephone, the Progress Party is concerned that the security of some non-pensioners with major health problems by being able to contact the outside world could lapse as a result of a failure to afford to use the telephone for economic reasons. The party of progress fears that, if basic benefits are to be provided only in specific cases, this could lead to a large number of clients with a real need not actually apply. I also fear that need testing will lead to many rejections for economic reasons. The Progress Party will therefore vote against the Government’s proposal that basic phone support should only be granted in ‘special cases’. The Progress Party will further vote against the Government's proposal to amend § 9-8 – this is because we fear that by making this change we will shift even more burdens on employers who have chronically ill employees. If this amendment is adopted, I am afraid it will make it difficult for chronically ill people to find work. The Progress Party will also vote against the Government's proposal to amend the People's Rights Act § 22-18 second paragraph and the Contribution Acquisition Act § 19 second paragraph – on the principle that if companies or businesses do not want to create a bank account or do not want to give their account number, this must be a voluntary matter. The Progress Party will further vote against the Government's proposal for changes to the People's Security Act § 25-13 on the increased use of self-declaration for sick leave. This may be included in the series of proposals from the Government to continuously impose greater costs and problems on employers. However, employers will soon have to be overrun with a number of problems. If you're going to be able to bring down the sick leave, which is probably the purpose of this particular proposal, you have to go into the sick pay system itself and not do this grip that the Government is now doing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e85	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 149]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e99	A unanimous committee recommends that user-controlled personal assistance be legalised by amending the Social Services Act § 4-2(a). Local authorities are now required to have such an offer of user-led personal assistance, and users may now be required to have the service organised in that way. User-controlled personal assistance is an offer of practical and personal assistance to the severely disabled who need assistance in their daily lives. Help is not limited to being at home alone. For many, it will be very important to be able to function and participate in activities outside the home. By means of their personal assistants, disabled people can build up social networks and thus prevent isolation and solitude. The fact that the scheme is user-driven means that the disabled person himself determines his or her needs. They determine what the assistants are to do and the time at which the help is to be given. The user has the role of supervisor and thus has a greater influence over his own life situation. The Committee agrees that other than the user can be the supervisor, such as: parents or helpers. There is disagreement as to whether one should have an age limit of 18 years. All lots, except the Advance Party, believe that since the user must be the supervisor, train and advise the assistants on how to provide the assistance, the user should, as a general rule, be 18 years old. Exceptionally, user-led personal assistance arrangements may be provided to younger users if this is in the best interests of the user and their superior. The party of progress does not want an age limit. The same party believes that parents and other related persons providing care must also be able to be employed as personal assistants if the user so wishes. The majority reminds us that family members can receive a care allowance. The same majority believe that the use of an external assistant can contribute to and increase independence from parents. This is particularly important for young users. For those employed as assistants, there are three alternatives: the municipality can be an employer, it can be the user himself, or a set of shares created by the users. The Committee points out that, when employed in the municipality, assistants who do not have a full position may have other tasks in the municipality. Regardless of who is responsible for the employer, it is important that the user himself participates in the employment and approves the person added. The Committee stresses the need for the user to be trained in the labour manager role. Experience from experimental periods shows that this was a critical point. During the probationary period, there has been an increase in the amount of service for users who have had personal assistance. Sound-labelled stimulation supplements shall be provided for three more years. The Committee considers it important that the experience gained during this period be included in the discussions on the municipal framework of the income system. Finally, I would like to express joy over this amendment of the law. After six years of probation, I know that it is well received. More than 90 pst. users are satisfied or very satisfied with the scheme. One of the most important things is that the user has fewer people to deal with. The user can get help for tasks that the home help service and support contacts normally do not. Users themselves decide more about their everyday lives and their lives. User-controlled personal assistance provides room for flexible solutions, and I think it also provides better quality of life.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e120	This is a good case for many severely disabled people. Practical and personal assistance is a good and necessary option for those who are severely disabled and therefore need help for tasks both inside and outside the home. In many contexts, we are trying to improve user control of social health services. User-driven personal assistance is a concrete measure that can meet the needs and requirements of users for privacy and the need for independence. In this short article, I would like to underline the following: the user must define his needs and the tasks of the assistant as far as possible. And although the labour market function can mainly be attributed to users over 18 years of age, it is very important that young people under 18 years of age are given the opportunity to develop a natural independence in relation to, for example: the parents, through the use of a personal assistant. In this context, I would like to stress that the Government, as the Committee has pointed out, must consider providing user-driven personal assistance to younger users when this is in the best interests of the user and its superior. I refer here to positive experiences for many young people under the age of 18 who have had an agreement on user-driven personal assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e129	It is very gratifying that this case, which concerns user-driven personal assistance, is now under treatment in Odelstinget. It shows that this action is being taken seriously, and in this way it agrees that this is a form of action that helps a number of people to improve their lives. However, the Progress Party seems that today's proposal for legislative change does not go far enough to be able to take care of what should have been a matter of course for a number of people. In the opinion of the Progress Party, there is a need for user-driven personal assistance to be incorporated into the law as a right paid by the State. I have to say that I fear that by simply making this amendment to the law to which it is being added today, there is a certain danger that it does not adequately satisfy the individual's needs. I hope, therefore, that the Government will consider at a later stage the legalisation of the right to this service, then funded by the State. I would like to stress that the criteria to which it is added in order to be able to participate in this arrangement are too strict. I would therefore point out that from the point of view of the Progress Party, this should not prevent anyone other than the user from being a supervisor himself. This has also been pointed out by several of the organisations involved in this matter. In a number of situations, it would actually be natural to, for example: parents or auxiliary workers are those who could hold the managerial function. In conclusion, I would just like to point out that the proposition states that relatives and other related persons cannot be hired as personal assistants, but that these are quite likely to receive compensation for the provision of care pay. I do not agree with the Government in. It should be the user himself who should have the decisive word about who can be hired. If a user feels more secure at one of his closest acquaintances, it must be up to the user whether it becomes that person to be hired. With regard to the financing of this service itself, it is important that, as long as the municipalities are responsible, there should be earmarked funds, because it should not be possible for a municipality to allocate this type of service on the basis that the municipal budget does not extend because other measures have been given priority over this good measure. Nevertheless, the Progress Party will support the Government's legislative amendment proposal. Although we are of the opinion that one does not go far enough, at least this is a good improvement in relation to today's situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e144	In the Waxenå Declaration, the Government stated that we will work to strengthen the lives of disabled people and their rights, and that everyone must be able to participate in activities in society on their own initiative. User participation and user management are important elements to achieve the objective of full participation and equality for people with disabilities. Setting the individual to take control of his own life means much more quality of life. We want the authoritative human being – who takes responsibility for himself and his own situation. In Norway as well as internationally, the disabled themselves have long been in charge of schemes that can help them to control their own lives as much as possible. An important part of this has been the provision of services with user-controlled personal assistants, i.e. one or more personal assistants, such as yours. Allows you to reduce the number of municipal helpers. Today, there may be as many as 20-30 people who switch to providing assistance to a single person during a week, depending on the rotational and service plans that apply in the municipality. These service providers usually enter the home of the disabled person and thus intervene in private life. User-controlled personal assistance is an alternative organisation of practical and personal assistance for a highly disabled person who needs assistance in everyday life, both inside and outside the home. The system should be a more flexible care service, with the user himself acting as a work leader. He or she thus assumes greater responsibility for organisation and content in relation to their real needs. The user may have fewer people to do without reducing the total service supply. It is important to stress that the service should not become a special scheme for specific user or diagnostic groups. Before the offer is made, a single decision shall be taken in accordance with the Social Services Act on practical assistance. However, before the time frames set by the municipality for practical assistance, the users themselves can control who they want as helpers or helpers, what the assistants or assistants should do, where and at what times the help is to be provided. User management will therefore be able to contribute to better resource use and quality assurance. The service should be part of the collective municipal care services and be associated with the person, not the dwelling. Evaluations from Eastern research and the Centre for the Management of Services show very positive feedback from both users, assistants and municipalities. Users are very satisfied that the scheme is robust, makes it less dependent on relatives and gives them more flexibility and opportunities to live a life of their own. Given the user's worth and the need for the most flexibility, it has been a central point that the service recipient should control as much of the help as possible. I'm in it. This is the main reason why we have consistently benefited from the idea of ‘user-driven personal assistance’ about the arrangements we are now proposing. The system of user-led personal assistance has been tried out both as a pilot project under the auspices of the Norwegian Handicap Federation and as an area of activity in the Government’s disability action plan. The arrangement has, as I said, been received consistently well. We want to take this system forward, and thus link it to the social justice system we all have. That's why we suggest that user-driven personal assistance should be organised together with the practical assistance provided by social services law § 4-2(a), as a way of organising this help. I am pleased that this solution has been supported by all parties, including the Progress Party, even if they would prefer another solution. In the first row, the points that are inconspicuous are relative to the limits that have been set. In my view, it is important to have such limitations, even if they cannot – or should – be completely absolute. It's user-management that we want to encourage, not just a change in the municipal service pattern towards fewer service providers. The minority takes too little account of the user management when it comes to them, among other things. will not require the general rule that the user should be 18 years old and open up to the full use of others as supervisors. This is something we may come back to when we see how the arrangement develops. I also point out that when it is related, in the proposition it is opened so that, in a single case, they can be appointed as assistants. Some questions need to be clarified before the scheme can be implemented, as is often the case with new measures. In the proposition, we have a bunch of things. the need for cooperation with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs on some of the aspects of labour law. That's what we saw right away. Finally, let me say that I am pleased that we have now been given the legalization of a user-controlled personal assistant. I'm sure that will lead to a better life for many people with disabilities. In 1999, 35 million were allowed. SEK, and 504 users are covered by the scheme. The budget for 2000 has increased by 10 million. kr. This will allow room for 200 new users. I look forward to the count after the year 2000. I believe that this is the goal of improving the ‘ability to live and live independently and to have an active and meaningful life in common with others’, as set out in the purpose paragraph of the Social Services Act. Just this will involve the legalisation of user-driven personal assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e170	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e184	We have today carried out a strange procedure, we have debated a case in Stortinget. I actually didn't think it was possible until it was like that, and I hope we don't get in that situation again. The Progress Party has promoted a proposal based on a genuine desire for equal treatment and recognition of equivalence for all children and their parents. We have noticed that the Stortinget has adopted three human rights conventions as a general Norwegian law, and this new law must mean that human rights are considered essential for citizens of Norway as well. Furthermore, the Progress Party believes that if the words spoken by the majority are to be repeated in this Chamber and in election campaigns on the equivalent training offer are to be somewhat more than festivities, the rights described in the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights must have material substance. Should a right have any value other than artificial decoration on e.g. The biggest Christmas trees, the economic conditions in order to comply with the law must be ensured. During the examination of the quality assurance case of primary and secondary schools, the Progress Party promoted proposals for minimum standards and controls as a natural and necessary follow-up to the new law based on human rights. Our proposals were defeated by the majority. The fact that the proposals did not get a majority does not mean that they were crazy – rather on the contrary. The proposals of the Progress Party to increase the quality of the Norwegian public school and our proposals on economic equality mean that we in the Progress Party take the issue of credibility from voters and their children and young people very seriously. It would be to hope that the majority in this Chamber will comply with the conventions they themselves ratify on behalf of all of us, and later adopt as the supreme Norwegian law. With this, I would like to promote the proposal put forward by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the inner East. O. No 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e199	Ursula Evje has addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e202	On the basis of a consensus within the Committee, the debate on this matter has been concluded at the Grand Summit, but I will be able to address the proposal from the Right, which stands as proposal No. 2 in the option on page 3, second column.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e207	No salary has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 151]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e217	The odelsting shall vote in case No. One-three.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e277	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e331	The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Left Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e376	The party of progress has announced that they are moving towards the second sentence. It goes first over this point, then over the other sentence of the paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e428	The Party of Progress and the Right has notified that they are opposed to point (d) of the second paragraph. It shall be counted first above point (d), then above the other paragraphs and letters of the paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e457	The party of progress has announced that they are moving towards the second sentence. It goes first over this point, then over the other sentence of the paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e531	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e539	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e577	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e585	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e592	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1 by Ursula Evje, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal No. 2, from Inge Wages and salaries on behalf of the Right Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e678	Proposal No. 1 B, from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and proposal No 1 B, from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and proposal No 1 B, from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and proposal No 1 B, from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of There will be voting alternately between proposal No. 1 A, from the Party of Advancement, and the position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-lower.ana.ud499e701	There is no record.
