ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e26	I noticed that the Council of State in its statement expressed concern that some states and municipalities are depriving local cultural work. Then we hope in the Right that the Council of State will find room to meet the counties and municipalities who, despite tight budgets, are betting on culture. I want to point to Rogaland, which is next to Akershus, it's located in the country that actually gets the least per. the population, but which nevertheless takes care of cultural life. There are a few priorities for Rogaland within our budget, and I wish the Council of State had the opportunity to take a closer look at it. The representative of Greece has set out the Right’s priorities in this budget, within the financial framework available after the budgetary conciliation. The right priorities give room for large transfers to important cultural institutions that are struggling to meet ends, not least in the museum sector. I would like to point out in particular that the budget agreement does not follow up previous decisions to allocate funds for the maintenance of our three large sailing ships. The decision to set aside funds for this purpose each year is justified by the need to ensure that adequate resources are available when the major maintenance work needs to be carried out and must be done at certain intervals. That's why the right will cancel out $10 million. kr in the year's budget, and it is in line with the decisions taken earlier. For culture, this year's budgetary settlement has been a rather peculiar performance. However, the impact of the budgetary agreement on all beneficiaries of State aid under the 78 items is not known. The cooperating parties have waived responsibility for these posts, and we think that in the Right is quite amazing. And only here in the debate today did it become clear that even the partners are not sure whether and when the funds under heading 78 are to be allocated. But at least we in the Right assume that no one gets nominally less than they got in 1999. I'll especially refer to the language chapter. Language is culture, and we have noticed that support for Sami, female and targets lies in the 78 entries, while Norway's Target Team has been given its own position in the state budget, and has come uncircumcision through the conciliation. It is remarkable, especially in the light of the reasons given by the objective of strengthening its budget, which is clearly accepted as important by the majority of the Committee, namely to provide our dialects. The national language is one of the most important for national identity — it binds people together. The language conveys songs and theatres, the written word is conveyed in literature, magazines and newspapers, and not least through radio and TV. In most cultural nations, learning mother tongues has a great place. In Norway, as we know, we have two main linguistic directions, built on the same basic grammatical structure, and we have to take care of both variants. And we have a wide variety of local dialects that follow their own completely ungrammatical rules. Without Oluf and Per Inge Torkildsen, Norwegian cultural life would be poorer, but their dialects are not suitable as language models in a classroom. Local dialects are excellent in local radio and TV broadcasts, but should not be used by NRK programme managers. I think Norwegian dialects survive most of it. They have survived Danish time, Swedish time, changing textbook normals and co-norcy – they survive everything, they do not need state aid. And when it is reported from foreign universities that more and more of those who want to learn Nordic choose Swedish or Danish because they need to listen to the language they are learning, and Norwegian lecturers do not meet that need, but use their own private dialect in a language training course, Norwegian language also loses abroad. That's why I find it strange that precisely the efforts to preserve Norwegian dialects of the state budget are given priority in the Culture Committee over other linguistic purposes. Once again, I would like to clarify our heartfelt desire that none of the important organisations and teams within the 78 posts lose nominal support. It has been important for many members of this Committee to highlight, withdraw, some of these posts and strengthen them in previous budgetary proceedings. This year, by the decision of this budget, we actually don't know what will be granted, who will get, and who may not get from these items. We think that in the Right is suspicious and strange, but we trust that the Council of State will not fail these that are within the 78 posts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e43	Two years in the Culture Committee have given me an extended insight into a social area that has never been the main element of the economic debate here in the country, and that despite it includes most of what gives life content. I have discovered the enormous diversity of art and culture. I have discovered the diversity of voluntary organisations and the many fires that keep it going year after year. And I've discovered what great opportunities we have to create even more commitment, even more positive community building and an even richer quality of life through a conscious commitment to cultural life. But I have also discovered how greedy we as a nation are about the will to bet on culture as a supporting element in society. For a rich society like ours, it's about will. "The field frees or traps," said one of our leading poets. In fact, we get new opera building, but without a larger framework, we can experience that the operation of it leads to less appropriations for a lot of other things. That this is the will is illustrated by the fact that the majority of the Storting had no problems finding an amount equivalent to the entire cultural budget in order to implement a little thoughtful and in my view failed election vow – the error of the result has become a record bomb in relation to the desire for parents and children to be more together, and the error of the fact that it binds up a huge amount of money that should have been used differently. Think of the effect on our cultural budget of only $1/10 of $3 billion. The priority of cash support shows that when a majority really wants something, it can be implemented regardless of the pressure in the economy. The cultural sector, with its preventive and attitude-building effect, had to give way to a political project of excellence. This budgetary procedure has resulted in a cut of just 25 million ECU in the cultural budget. kr – a large amount in this budget. Based on the wish to achieve overall improvements in the budget, the Labour Party has had to accept this cut. An important argument for this has been the desire to prevent budgetary cooperation between the centre and the Progress Party, which would make the situation considerably worse. I hope, however, that the Council of State is right when she claims that the individual bodies that have reduced the allocation will be able to live with it. If we have a desire to get a higher priority for culture in the time to come, I allow myself to put a question mark on our way of working. In my view, the committee system in Stortinget has the obvious weakness that it makes us all sectoral politicians and retailers quite quickly. But the most important cultural policy work must be done before the framework is defined. I'm worried that we'll never be able to achieve a real cultural policy boost if we continue as we are now, where we're largely speculating. It'll almost be like curing fractures with patches. In my view, we, representing the cultural parties on the Stortinget, have a common task of creating a broader understanding of the importance of culture, and the opportunities for creating a qualitatively better society. Against this background, I am pleased that the majority have said that we need a new cultural message, and that the department is asked to start the work. There is no doubt that we need ‘a more general and fundamental discussion of the cultural policy challenges in Norway’, as expressed by the majority of the Committee. Then we get to hope that it will not only be the members of the Culture Committee who participate in the subsequent debate, as the system invites. In addition to the points the majority points to as important in this context, I would like to highlight the regional policy role of culture that creates strong roots in the community for those who grow up there. It is also necessary to carry out an evaluation of the distribution of supply and resources between the different parts of the country. I'm afraid it's not just the symphony orchestras that experience discrimination. In an article at the Culture Council conference a short time ago, the cultural director of Northland, Aslaug Vaa, pointed to several aspects. Of the harvest's awards of aspirant positions, 12 out of 23 went to Oslo. Out of 67 commitments to free performing arts, 39 went to groups in Oslo. About half of the appropriations went to the part of the country that is eligible for the most public grants for performing arts through the institutional theatres. 74 pst. of the State grants to visual art go to Oslo, and approx. 65 pst. of state grants to stage art and about 45 pst. of the total cost of music is in Oslo. This, too, is a matter to be looked at more closely. In this context, too, I believe that the Council of State's idea of turning the department into a policy body has a lot to do, and I look forward to discussing this in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e66	In the first part of this article, I will focus on two items in the cultural budget, bullet posts that each have a lot to say to the inhabitants across the country from Lindesnes in the south to Nordkap in the north. Under the hood. 320 General cultural purposes are Item 60, which applies to state subsidies to local and regional cultural buildings. It is very positive that the government made suggestions that this item would increase by 4 million. $40 million. kr. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) members of the Committee on Culture mark this as positive, and we further point out that this item was not reduced under the budgetary agreement concluded between the Government Party and the Labour Party. This incentive scheme for local and regional cultural buildings has had an important role for many years, and there are today a large number of projects that have been approved and are waiting to be awarded according to the current criterion. Many of these cultural housing projects have been started, and many have been completed with the background that they have received approval under the state grant conditions. Although the post office has increased a lot, there are still many projects that still have to wait for the government to grant it. Local and regional cultural buildings have an important function for the community and the district in which they belong. These buildings, large or small, are an arena of cultural creativity, emancipation and diverse cultural experiences. In addition, these buildings are a meeting place for the inhabitants, and this applies to all age groups. For both smaller and larger communities, it is important that there are locals who have a general character, where everyone can feel welcome and can participate in their way, once as a trainer and another time as an audience. The second post I want to mention is press support. Press support, listed on the hood. 335 in the cultural budget, also has an important function for the inhabitants of the whole country. The Government's proposal to increase the production premium of entry 71 is supported by the majority of committees. The press support has served as an incentive to maintain the gap before this area, and it has been important to ensure freedom of expression. I also want to point to the role that locals play for the inhabitants of our country. These newspapers have an important function for many areas of local society. Local newspapers are important venues for local information and debate, and they are an important contribution to creating local identity. The Christian People's Party was involved in taking the initiative for a broad review of the press's framework conditions. We are meeting the work of the reduced press support committee in the spring of 2000. But, as I said earlier, the Christian People's Party will uphold the promises of production support for newspapers at the same level as now until the review of the framework conditions has ended in government and accumulation. Before I finish, I will mention two measures that got special attention in the cooperation agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party in the Committee. The notes on the Youth Centre in Ålesund are in line with the conclusions presented in the pre-project for the Centre. It is very positive that there is a joint committee that supports the establishment of the Youth Centre as a foundation. The Art Nouveau of Ålesund plays an important role in the field of culture and architecture. The Youth Centre, also designated as a thousand-year-old for More and Romesdal, has an important role to play in preserving this cultural history and using it actively in both national and international contexts. A large majority of the Committee suggests that the Molde International Jazz Festival should be given the status of a focal point institution. This jazz festival has been and will be an arena for national and international practitioners and an important gathering place for many jazz players. The Christian People's Party sees it as important to ensure a cultural shortage in our country and to participate in measures that will make cultural provision as beneficial as possible. Culture is important for individuals, from the youngest to the oldest. Cultural experience and cultural participation provide communities, associations, interesting and rich experiences, cultural experiences for both practitioners and audiences.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e89	The debate on the cultural budget will, of course, become a debate on the different priorities that the Committee has taken for next year, and a review of a wide range of individual items and items. And of course, it is important that a debate on the cultural budget takes time to tell about the priorities that have been set, why they have been done, and what leadership you want to give for the work to be done. I think the committee has done a good job with the framework they have been given; in particular, I am glad that they have managed to achieve such a good result for the film industry, based on what was the starting point. I think we can learn a lot from our neighboring country, Denmark, when it comes to bet on movies. It is possible that there is a random link between the economic efforts of the Danes and the talents they have had within films. It's hard to know what came first from the chicken and from the egg. What is at least safe is: without chicken, no eggs. I think we should learn from the Danes and make a real effort to get our own film industry on the offensive. I was going to say a little more generally and use this cultural budget debate to go more broadly to work. We in the Financial Committee should perhaps take a little self-criticism in that there was a cut in the cultural budget compared to what was proposed. There's very little money in a big government budget, but it means an incredible amount to a cultural budget. And when we see that the cultural committee is left with cuts and changes of 9 000 - 10 000 kroner, in my view, it becomes a rather absurd budgetary procedure for a parliament. It should not really be necessary when we have a budget of more than DKK 500 billion, that the committees at Stortinget should sit and talk about a few thousand copies. We use approx. $3.5 billion on culture. In comparison, our private consumption increased by DKK 12 billion in 1999. So the entire cultural budget is just about the same. three months of private consumption growth in Norway. It tells a little bit about how we really prioritise the cultural front, and then these discussions about small budget changes really become quite insignificant. From 1992 to 1999, private consumption in Norway has increased by DKK 115 billion, which means that in 1999 we have DKK 115 billion higher than in 1992, and the cultural budget is still DKK 3.5 billion. I want to say that this priority says more than anything about Norway as a cultural nation, that it is not the cultural policy and the effort we make there, which is the most crucial, but the overall priorities and the growth of consumption and materialism within our society. It says something about a society that uses more in advertising than in primary school of its gross domestic product. It's said that we can't live by cutting our hair on each other, and of course we can't. We can't live by playing theater for each other, nor can we live by melting aluminum for each other. All of these things are problems that have to be solved. But when we ask what's going to be most valuable in the future, I think our material needs are gradually being met, while in the spiritual needs you might still need to fill. I believe that as the industry becomes more efficient and we get more opportunities in the economy, there will be more demand for and more need for an even more offensive cultural policy. We can produce aluminium twice as efficiently. We can't play Chadkovsky's violin concert twice as fast. The environment is going to set limits on our economy. Perhaps our needs for quality of life also set limits on how far materialism can go. Maybe it'll be a vision to go into a new century that we're going to have different priorities, different goals and different visions than that we're just going to be even richer in material things. Maybe we'll also be richer at what's the key to our quality of life: culture, expansion and sport, and that we're going to facilitate it in an overall perspective, not just in small budget lines on a cultural budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e106	Grethe G. Fossum has asked for the word to correct a mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e109	I would like to be allowed to rectify the decision to VII in Framework Area 3. There have been some chapter numbers. The decision shall contain 320, 321, 322, 323, 324 and 326.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e114	It's going to be corrected. Then we have finished the debate on framework area 3, with the exception of the three-minute speeches, which have therefore been decided to finalize. So we're going to deal with the framework areas 1 and 2. It is the same speaking time limit that applies to this debate as to the previous one.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e121	I will also start this debate with a little everyday poem of inspiration, by our great poet Olav H. Hauge: «When I woke up today, routine was frozen, but I glowed with a good dream. And the area heated out into the room from a cube he had enjoyed at night." The dream and the goal of securing our future, children and young people, good growing conditions have all parties, but we can have different approaches. The other parties will explain their views on both this theme and the wide range of issues covered by Framework Areas 1 and 2. I want to focus on SV's vision. Investing in the future is investing in children and young people. For SV, such a bet is continuous, and must begin by ensuring that all children are entitled to a nursery place. There must be enough space and the parental payment must be much lower in order for the court to be effective. As a result of too low government operating subsidies and a lack of local economy, the prices of kindergartens have increased much more than the price increase. SV has free kindergartens as a goal, and on the way to the goal we are now increasing the operating supplement, so that it is possible to lower the parental payment. SV will have full childcare coverage by the end of 2000, as the Stortinget has many times decided. Due to poor municipal economy in many municipalities, kindergartens are laid down instead of creating new ones to get the necessary coverage. SV supports the incentives in place for the Middle East of Oslo and supports the use of funds to extend this scheme to four-year-olds, as the majority have done. SV is also very concerned about the conditions of child protection. In many areas, good work is done, but there are also major problems and obstacles to children and young people getting the help they need. We have pointed out in the past how serious it is when child protection does not have a sufficient level of competence development and empowerment, when there is a lack of follow-up of institutions and a lack of attention to the quality of placement and action, as happens when the county is lacking in many places. It is a matter of concern when local authorities have less than half of the statutory inspections carried out and 16 out of 18 county offices broke the legislation in 1998. In such a situation, it is important to ensure that citizens have financial opportunities to carry out their duties. SV also believes it is important to strengthen responses and offers to children and young people. When funds are allocated for action in larger cities and districts, we must also be able to provide funds without always being called prevention. Children and young people are entitled to be seen and taken seriously without the label ‘preventive’. With the tight local economy it is now being added up to, we know from past experience that some of the services provided by municipalities are just leisure services given to children and young people. Violence against women is one of our biggest societal problems. It has been invisible and timed in the heel for far too long. Thanks to the work of crisis centres, this topic is now a topic. The abuses are about abuse of power and the historically uneven relations of power between women and men, which still exist. The government's commitment to the action plan against violence against women is positive and contains many good measures. At the same time, there is a need for further action in the areas of governance, such as: measures in relation to sexualised violence. SV believes it is important to invest heavily here, and that all relevant environments and organisations must also be involved. In the context of the budget, we have therefore called for the creation of a women's violence committee, which the majority actually asked for a year ago. SV is concerned that the State should pursue an employer policy that is a good example of how to promote equality. It involves equal pay, working time arrangements, career opportunities and skills development opportunities. The pace of equal pay needs to be stepped up, and the Stortinget, which has a direct employer responsibility for the government sector, should give clear signals that equal pay needs to be given priority. If not, women's wages are still synonymous with low wages. In SV’s view, an equal pay pot must be offered at the time of salary settlement in 2001, while we believe that the State must also take the lead in terms of working time arrangements, for example. trying out a six-hour schedule.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e156	Co-operation is difficult. In particular, it is difficult when trying to reconcile positions which, in principle, have major contradictions. I want to compare the situation with the one we're up in right now about Telia/Telenor, Swedish/Norwegian cooperation. In family policy, the central government and the Labour Party have different views and principles as to the type of instruments to be used. It is no secret that the Workers' Party is against cash support. We're against using NOK 2.9 billion every year for a transfer to families that don't use kindergartens. We want a completely different family policy, where we want, among other things. wish to carry out longer parental leave, have more kindergartens and cheaper kindergartens. When management of the Workers' Party has found it necessary to enter into budgetary cooperation with the Centre Government, it is for several reasons: The working party wanted to strengthen the school leisure system.The working party wanted a loan scheme for schoolbooks in secondary school, so that families with pupils who could be compensated for some of the costs they incurred of going to secondary school. At the same time, I would like to stress that they tried to get a tax credit for those with lower earnings. That's also very good family policy. Let me make it clear that the budgetary agreement between the Labour Party and the government parties has actually turned Norwegian policy in a different direction than we have in the last two years – to more social justice and equalisation, something the Right and the Advance Party do not have at the top of their agenda. In my opinion, you do not go far enough, but in politics the small steps count. The budgetary agreement that we have reached with the representatives of the government parties in the Committee shows the willingness of the Labour Party to reduce the parental pay of young children's parents. Now it's up to the municipalities to make it happen. By spending $95 million. kr for government grants for small children's places will increase the country's share of the nursery budget by a total of 5 pst. The working party will come back to how this can be done in practice in the context of the kindergarten message. I am also pleased that the Workers' Party has extended the trial with free short-term offers to all 4- and 5-year-olds in Old Oslo. It is a good way to get children with a foreign cultural background to learn Norwegian, which they do in these kindergartens. It is my opinion that being able to Norwegian when you start school will increase the possibility of integration into Norwegian society. The government has provided a number of action plans and key messages, and will do so in the future. Action plans on women and violence, on childhood and juvenile delinquency, a kindergarten report and a gender equality report come just before Christmas. I expect these plans and messages not only to be planned, but that there is room for action against child and youth crime both in the Ministry of Justice's budget and in the Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs' budget, and that there is indeed money in relation to the action plan on women and violence. If this is the case that we cannot afford to implement the action plans and the measures that we have put forward, I must say that I feel cheated by the budget that the Government has presented. It is by no means a good way to deal with a partner. The working party is concerned with equality. Although it may now appear that equality has come very far in Norway on paper, there is a great deal to be taken into account. Women are not top managers in Norway. They are not represented on the boards of the companies. Although we are very active, we earn on average less than men. Women still have primary responsibility for domestic chores, kindergarten cows are long, and places are expensive. I don't think that women in Sweden and Denmark had found that there were not enough kindergarten places, and that they had to pay “shirt” to get out of the few places. In fact, it is quite a long time left for women in Norway to be assimilated to men, and a communication on gender equality has come together as a basis for debate, as a basis for knowledge and decision-making — to see equality in the light of the family pattern set by this government. The budget of the Ministry of Administration is also being discussed today. The Workers' Party is committed to a well-functioning administration that takes care of the important values of the welfare society. The administration must ensure legal certainty, non-discrimination and the involvement of users. There must be a minimum of organisational separation that makes it difficult for individual users to come up with the system. The working party will therefore work actively to ensure that public service offices are located in individual municipalities and are of benefit to users. This can make the public sector more public-friendly and more accessible to just users. For the Workers' Party, the conditions of the public sector are very important, and it is therefore with great disappointment that I see that the agreements concluded between employers and employees are still under pressure. It seems to me that there is one agreement that is sacred to the Right and the Advance Party: it is the cash support agreement. In fact, they very often give the bluff – to use a little popular expression – in the agreements concluded between employees and employers, and I would like these anti-organisational parties to care as much about the agreements they make about the cash support agreement. This applies to agreements – good rights – that employees in the country have had for many years and that the Progress Party and the Right simply ignore. So a little warning to the Government finally: Take the workers in the state seriously. Add to the agreements concluded between employers and employees. Then I think we get workers who do the job we expect them to do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e197	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e201	Cooperation is difficult," said the representative Fossum in his statement. One would not think that there has been so much difficulty in the arrangement between the government parties and the Workers' Party, because in the rest of the post to the representative Fossum it shines through the fact that the Workers' Party is very satisfied. And then you should not think that it has been so difficult to cooperate, because it is very little that has been done in the 2000 budget compared to 1999. As a matter of fact, I don't believe that it has been a difficult thing to work with the government parties. But what I want to challenge the representative Fossum on is private kindergartens. I actually believed at an earlier time this year that the Workers' Party was a bit slippery and a little more positive about the situation of private kindergartens. I think more people also believed with me. The Landsförbund of Private Barnehager had also understood that the Workers' Party was now concerned with their problems. The signals from the Workers' Party in recent years have brought us into this belief, not least after the representative Karita Bekkemelm Orheim in PBL-Neutt in November says that the Workers' Party will provide exceptional funds for private kindergartens in 2000. I also see that the representatives Grethe Fossum and Karita Bekkellem Orheim, together with the partners in the agreement, agree to consider putting off 45 million. kr to private kindergartens. This isn't done. Is it the case that in the rest of the post of the representative Fossum it is also in relation to private kindergartens, that it is public and municipal priority, and then the private kindergartens are to be adapted according to the wishes of the municipalities for municipal kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e214	Bug # 1: The representative of the Progress Party produced me as very pleased with what we had achieved in relation to the agreement. Then I would recommend the representative to read the paper, so that he can see what kind of comments I had after the budgetary cooperation was in order. But what I tried to highlight is just the things that have been positive, and there were several kindergartens and maybe lower parental pay. I also underlined that I think we could have gone even further. In the case of private kindergartens, the Workers' Party is also concerned. We want to equate the private and the public kindergartens, and have actually written about that in our comments. In the case of the 45 million grant. It is quite right, as the representative of the Progress Party says, that it could be used for incentives or as a subsidy to private kindergartens. From the short time we had, it wasn't possible to find a reasonable way to do it, so we could give 45 million. kr to private kindergartens. We are therefore waiting for what the government will present in the kindergarten message, just to equate the private and the public kindergartens. However, being sidelined also means that you have to be able to set the same requirements for the private kindergartens as for the public kindergartens. And I hope, in fact, that the Advance Party's support for them will have a fairly reasonable parental payment, that there will be an orderly employment agreement for the employees and that, for example, it will be. shall be sibling moderation and community admission in the municipality. It could be an interesting discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e221	I have to say that I wondered a little, when I heard the comments from the representative of Fossum, whether it was the private person Fossum or the representative of the Workers' Party Fossum who spoke, because here there is a clear double communication in relation to what party leader Jagland says and what the representative Fossum says. This is particularly true for cash support. I have made it quite clear that the Workers' Party has accepted the cash support and will continue it for the next major period. This is in pretty clear contrast to what the representative Fossum here says, so I think there are more people who need this question to be clarified. People actually have a claim and we in this room have a claim that there is a clear communication and that you know what the individual parties are in favour of. Then I also want to say something about the representative Fossum's description of our relationship with the social partners. Agreements concluded between social partners must be open to discussion in the context of new collective bargaining. And an agreement that has been concluded at one time is usually unnecessary to continue, it should be changed in relation to changing social conditions as the years go by. I would like to ask Grethe Fossum whether she believes that agreements concluded on tariffs should be eternal, unchangeable and undisputed no matter how appropriate they are in relation to changing social conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e230	By the representative from the Right I have now been accused of double communication, or that there is double communication in the Workers' Party. But there we have it so openly -- I don't know if they have experience with it in the Right -- that members of the Party may disagree with the leader on different questions. More than I disagree with the manager of the cash support issue. In fact, we disagree that it is the national meeting that will decide whether the Workers' Party is going to apply for the cash support in the next period. That question may be clarified by Inger Stolt-Nielsen, the representative of the Right, at the national meeting of the Labour Party in November to next year. The second question raised by the representative is whether agreements between the social partners are everlasting. Of course they're not. They are not, but who will decide whether these agreements are everlasting? Yes, there is a relationship between the employee and the employer, and it is they who have to find out at all times whether this agreement should be continued or not. The Labour Party has the respect both for the employee organisations and the employers, who are actually the state, that we believe that this is something they find out for themselves. I notice that the right is not particularly concerned with employment contracts between employees and the employer. Among other things, it has been clearly expressed in relation to teacher organisations, where they intervene in a very inappropriate manner with proposals that the parties to the agreement should come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e237	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e240	The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government has in a way created a tame mood in relation to both debate and further political development into the year 2000. That is what I tried to add in the line to the representative Fossum, because in her post there was at least a signal that the Workers' Party and the representative Fossum were satisfied. I have also registered that the representative Fossum in various newspapers and in the media has said the opposite, of course, but in the post it seemed that she was satisfied. My reaction to the agreement is that if there may not be as much change in relation to what was available from the Government, it will at least not lead to any improvement for the families of children. The representative Fossum also pointed out that they had given tax relief to families with children, and especially to those with lower incomes, and that it was a good family policy. I fully agree with that. The Progress Party also has as its basic approach in its family policy that if we resolve some of the tax burden for families with children, there will be freedom of choice, and we will create framework conditions for young children’s parents who at least lead to more time for children and parents together. The progress party is also very concerned about what's happening and what's happened to the families in the last few years. What we see is that the families are disintegrating. We consider marriage to be the most stable and secure framework around a family relationship – as opposed to the Workers' Party, which will facilitate all relationships for new family patterns, as they call it, that we should equal all relationships, whether we are single, whether we live in marriage or not, for example. in the case of adoption. When we say that we're concerned that marriage should be preserved as a stable framework around a family relationship, it's not the same thing as the Progress Party does not accept other forms of life, but it's simply because it's proven that marriage gives the most security and stability around child's growth. In today’s society, with high living costs and increased pressure from society on the work of parents, the family policy pursued is essential. This is where the Progress Party comes up with a larger framework and smaller taxes and taxes that give the most room for manoeuvre for parents. We want to lower the tax burden quite considerably in relation to the Workers' Party, so that the parents themselves can organize their time in the way that each family thinks is doing the most for themselves. We respect that some parents choose professional activity for both, while other families choose that one is temporarily or permanently at home with the kids. Especially in the first few years, we think this is very important. The Progress Party is therefore satisfied that the cash support is fully available for two- and three-year-olds in the 2000 budget. But the main goal of the Progress Party is to look at all the transfers to the families of children, birth grants, child care grants, child welfare, and we want to put this together in a pot that is distributed equally to everyone with young children. Then first the real choices will be present. It is also the only fair solution that everyone receives equal benefits from the community and is then allowed to make their own choices. The party to the progress is also currently the only batch wishing to introduce spouse-shared taxation. It will contribute not only to a smaller tax for the individual family, but also to the fact that both parents in such a system earn pension points in social security. I've said it several times, and I'd like to repeat it again: it's time to call out a warning when society is more and more disintegrating, and that the parents' task as commissioners is transferred to the state to a greater and greater extent. That's when we get into – and that was also the representative Fossum inside – this with juvenile delinquency and what we see in schools today in relation to youth. We also had this up to debate last year. Then the Workers' Party found large sums to contribute in that context. They have not done so this year, but now we have more action plans to look at the problem in the future, and the Progress Party is also looking forward to that. In this context, it is interesting to note that when we dealt with the Child Protection Act and the changes there in relation to criminal children and young people, I suggested in connection with Ot.prp. 61 for 1997-1998 on changes in the law, so that we might get some institutional places, some training agencies for the worst juvenile criminals. Then we got to the hump so the monnet, both from the press and opposition politicians. What turns out now is that there are no more than 14 days since the Children's Ombudsman had the same idea. The priests are also concerned about it. So maybe it goes in that direction anyway. I know that the Workers' Party is particularly concerned with child protection institutions. So maybe we can have a dialogue in this area, when people other than the Progress Party have shown their interest in getting such institutions going. So to kindergartens. It is regrettable – I have said this – that the Government, not least in agreement with the Labour Party, nor in the budget for 2000 does it consider it appropriate to promote measures for existing private kindergartens. Incentives for the construction of new kindergartens as well as general increases in operating grants will therefore be given priority. I have to say that I find it strange that at a time when more and more kindergartens are struggling, more and more kindergartens are being laid down, so the government parties and the Workers' Party will build new ones. Whoever lives in the belief in increased operating grants to get lower parental payments, I think will be disappointed. My simple claim is that this is not the problem. The problem is probably the cost-effective requirements for the operation of kindergartens. Without pre-empting the kindergarten message too much, I am afraid that this kindergarten message will also end up in several demands that will push prices upwards. The amendments to the Kindergarten Act are not necessary. That's good enough. There are differences in the grants to kindergartens, municipal and private, which are the problem. The Workers' Party and the Government's Parties now, in their comments, carry responsibility to the municipalities in a way. I think it's a little strange that the municipalities are granted 100 million. kr shall show that they are conscious of their responsibilities. We all know the situation in the municipalities. If we travel around the country today, we see that the budgets of the different municipalities for the year 2000 show that they are laying down their kindergartens because they have no funds. So the government parties and the Workers' Party say in their comments that now the municipalities have to take more financial responsibility. It won't be a reality. Furthermore, the Progress Party did not find any exceptional funds for private kindergartens in its alternative primary budget for 2000. But with the new frameworks, we did re-priorities, so we found 233 million. kr to private kindergartens to remedy the precarious situation in which they are currently in place, until the nursery service is in place. Then we might be able to come up with solutions, which the representative Fossum had in mind, so that we get fair and equal relationships for our kindergartens. Finally, I just want to say something positive about this agreement, and then I think that the child's pension is now being extended to 18 years. Of course, it is regrettable that the government parties and the Workers' Party did not get to that extension without in some way using the child's pension as a balancing item. Then I think that the rates will be reduced from 1 January to 1 May. It wouldn't have been necessary. There could have been room to keep the bets. But the Progress Party has weighed it up against enlargement and found it at least positive.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e268	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e271	In a note, and in so far as it is also in the post, the representative Sandberg has stated that the Progress Party is very concerned about the supervisory role of the county councillors in relation to child protection. The Progress Party notes that 16 out of 18 states broke the legislation to ensure the legal certainty of one of the weakest groups in society. So in the next note, the Progress Party expresses their satisfaction with the local conversion measures, which have so far resulted in a reduction of the annual number of county offices by 8.7 pst. for the period 1996 to 1998. They also say that they expect further reductions in manpower. In response to their concerns, they are proposing 34 million cuts in appropriations. kr in its primary budget. How does this relate? To be honest, I think it's the concern of the weakest in a strange light. Also in another area, the Progress Party operates with a double game after my vision. This concerns the State Pension Fund, where they together with the Committee state that it is important that we have a state pension scheme that is able to accept the large increase in the number of pensioners that will come after the thousandth year. So they're going to suggest, as a conclusion, reducing the chapter by $6 million. kr. I think Sandberg should have a good explanation in this way of budgeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e278	Yes, it is right that we in the Progress Party view the statesmen as having a very important task. It is also true that we regard the state pension scheme as an important area. But we have recorded something that the other parties may not have registered: year after year, not only in the Ministry of Children and Family, not just in the Ministry of Labour and Administration, not just in the county, and not just in the county, but everywhere in the government, there are increased appropriations – year after year. What is the reason why they receive increased appropriations? Well, they're applying for project funding, they're applying for funds to streamline their organization, to get new management tools. In order to streamline and rationalise the enterprise, they are provided with funds. And then I point out in the remarks that we also expect all the resources now allocated in this area with the aim of improving efficiency and rationalisation to produce results. We're not attached to putting resources and resources into infinity without getting something left for it. But the task of the county councillors, the task of the State Pension Fund, it is important, but then they must give effective priority to the tasks within their own areas and create the results, on the basis that they are given large resources to carry out the tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e292	I want to address a relationship that is very important for the Christian People's Party to bring into focus, namely preventive family protection. This year again, the Progress Party has shown its reluctance to effective and cheap measures that people demand, and I am talking about parental guidance and community action. The reasons given by the Progress Party are, as before, that the Progress Party does not regard the guidance of adult people's choice of forms of life as a public task. And the Progress Party points out that Chapter 841 holds appropriations for preventive family work. In the comments of the Progress Party, emphasis is placed on the importance of family protection offices at a time when marriage and cohabitation end up in violation. The Progress Party supports the important work of the family protection offices, and we are pleased about that. That's good. What, though, of the fact that the Progress Party does not wish to support actions which are a collaborative project between Pedagogical Psychological Service, Child Protection Service, Family Protection and Voluntary Organisations, when the objective is to strengthen the role of parents as employers and caregivers? Is not the Progress Party aware that therapy and institution placement are far more expensive than prevention efforts at an early stage? Especially strange is the argument of the Progress Party when we know that these measures are much sought after by most people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e302	I think the representative Lånke also included my answer in the line. It's a logic that the Progress Party sees family protection offices as an important instance, because when we experience a society where families are in disintegration, there must be some people present. In particular, I have stressed this with the fact that the family protection offices are now also very concerned about the rights of children and the conditions of their children after a break in life and divorce, etc., which the Progress Party has been at the forefront of getting through, among other things. to promote Document No. Eight proposals. I'm very happy about that. But as was also in the line of the representative Lånke, it is logical that the Progress Party does not want to operate with any training in community activities and parental guidance. I have actually received an offer to attend a course in community and parental guidance, and it was to take place at a mountain hotel up at the Geilo, I think. If you're looking at it a little humorous, it's probably after staying at a mountain hotel that the divorces and the breakups are happening. But, of course, we do not want the political environment to go into any way and help adults with their life problems, nor with the role of the contractor. I said in my main post that the state and the public have already taken too much of the role of the mission towards our children. Therefore, rather than giving such courses as this, we have to give them some more time. Now we take the time from the parents, our task must be to give them more time together, so that together with their children they may be able to solve their problems. Because the problems have arisen because they do not have time together.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e309	The representative Sandberg thought there was a 'tame mood' in the debate, but the mood for non-temperary contributions from the Progress Party should be a long look. Only once did he disfellowship the Workers' Party. I took it as a cut-off when he said that the Workers' Party was satisfied with the agreement. Now it's like the Progress Party looks at marriage as the most stable and what they want. It amazes me, for in a debate on culture for approx. A few hours ago, the representative, Sandberg, wanted individual solutions. Anyone should be able to choose what kind of culture you would have, and pay for it. However, in the case of marriage or life forms, the individual shall not be allowed to decide. Then it is the Progress Party that will decide that marriage is the best on this earth. And then I have to ask: what are the consequences for the policy of the Progress Party? Will they ban cohabitation when people have children, or will they force people to marry when they have children? And why don't they want parental guidance for marriage to last? It's a mystery to me. The second question I would like to ask the representative is: He says in his post that kindergartens cost too much, the operating costs are too high. What will he take away in kindergartens for them to be cheaper? Are there more children in kindergarten, so that parents can pay more to kindergarten, or is the higher parental payment? I believe that the representative will explain how he will get cheaper kindergartens without the public increasing the amount of money.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e318	Now there's a little bit more temperature in the debate, and it might be because Grethe G. Fossum is on the track. But I would like to ask that you change what I have said. I can repeat what I said in my main post when it came to marriage: The party of progress is of the clear opinion that marriage must be regarded as the most stable and secure framework for a family relationship. And it's not the Progress Party that says, it's proven. There will be safer and safer frames around a marriage than a cohabitation. But then I also go on to say to the representative Fossum: this does not mean that the Progress Party does not accept that a person chooses other forms of life, but that the Progress Party considers marriage to be the most important thing. Of course, people must be allowed to choose their life forms according to their own needs. So to kindergartens. Here I have tried once after – the parental payment will not go down if the government parties and the Workers' Party now allocate 100 million. SEK for operating grants. This is my claim, because that money will actually disappear in the municipal system. There will only be less expenditure for municipalities in that way, as the municipal economy is today. And this thing about making them cheaper -- you don't have to prove it. Private kindergartens operate 15-20 pst. less expensive than municipal kindergartens, and then no capital costs and common costs have been included in the administration of municipal kindergartens, which private kindergartens must have in their budgets and accounts, but which municipal kindergartens do not have in their accounts at all. So if you add this to the operating costs in municipal kindergartens, they'll be even more expensive. In addition, as the Workers' Party says here in relation to the pediatric service that comes, there are also new demands for the private kindergartens, they are to be equated with the municipal authorities. The Children's Court Act regulates this, not the individual municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e325	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e328	The Christian People's Party is engaged in a forward-looking family policy that is good for children, men and women on their way into a new millennium. One of the main challenges facing us is to strengthen the family and the role of parents in creating security for our children and young people. In recent years, there has been a lot of focus on problems related to violence, bullying, intoxication and racism among children and young people. The challenges we face here must be met on many levels. The government just presented the Action Plan ‘Violence against Women’, and last Friday the Action Plan against Child and Youth Crime was presented. In addition, the so-called Befring Committee is working on an overall review and assessment of the functioning of the Child Welfare Service. It is important to ensure good quality of services and measures and high legal certainty at all stages of the treatment of child protection issues. During the 1990s, child protection services have undergone significant improvements and improvements in their effectiveness. The increase in the number of child protection cases is mainly due to the increase in the number of children and young people in relief measures, while the number of takeovers per year is due to the increase in the number of children and young people. years have remained more stable. Overall efforts on families, including family counselling, parental guidance and co-operation measures, as well as preventive child protection measures, are the best and most reasonable, i.e. the most effective, measures to be taken. But realistically, we must always have a well-functioning child protection for the families and the children who get into trouble. Over time, we have seen a growing need for new ways to help those children, young people and families who are struggling with complex and complex problems. Heavyly staffed institutions with highly skilled professionals have also had to report passports. The Christian People's Party therefore looks forward with great interest to the development of new, exciting measures such as: treatment methods Parent Management Training, PMT, and multisystemal therapy, MST. These methods are family- and community-based, with emphasis on highlighting resources among family members, other relevant bodies and community support players. An important objective is to establish constructive cooperation between municipalities and municipalities in order to prevent the placement of children and young people away from home. Parents who have children with serious problems will be helped by professionals to meet the tough challenge they face. The Christian People's Party has faith in such an angle – one does something about the problems where they arise. And that's where they can usually best be solved. In the context of the budgetary agreement between the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party, certain changes were made to the proposed budget of the Government. These endrins have been received positively. I think, for example, the majority of families with children can live well on the fact that the reform on the introduction of child welfare for 16- and 17-year-olds has been at risk for four months. The reform comes during the year, and that is the most important thing. It is now time for families with young people in the house to get a lift. The vast majority of children go to school and are cared for by their parents, even after they have reached the age of 16. The child’s dependants’ obligation under the Children’s Act is 18 years of age. For the vast majority of families with children, child-restraint remains the main transmission system. The government has been criticised for reducing child welfare per year. a month in order to be able to extend child benefit by two years. I think most of those who have young children now will be glad that they get child welfare even for the 16- and 17-year-olds when that time comes. The pensioner’s allowance is left after the budgetary agreement with the Workers’ Party. The individual family of children is almost as equal as whether the allowance is included in the family allowance or whether the allowance is retained as it is now. But we refused to simplify the aid schemes. We did not achieve the efficiency in this area, but the main objective has been achieved: child welfare for the 16- and 17-year-olds. As early as 1983, the Equality Ombudsman raised the question of fathers’ entitlement to paid maternity leave. Both the Equality Ombudsman and the Children’s Ombudsman pointed out in 1990 that the legislation helped to maintain the traditional gender role pattern, and that this was unfortunate for equality reasons, and also in relation to children. After that, several points have pointed to the same thing. Increased level of equality between mothers and fathers is in the best interests of the child. I'm glad the government has now found room to give fathers the independent right to earn birth money. It is especially important for the children concerned, and for the father who has a greater chance of contacting his or her child early in life. Nor is the Christian People's Party satisfied with family policy until full child care is achieved. The target will be reached soon. We're on our way, and we're happy with that. Finally, in the case of Framework Area 1, which is the Ministry of Labour and Administration's budget, I do not have the time – the framework is in five minutes – to get into it so much. However, a number of cases from this department are being dealt with in Stortinget, and we are now getting these cases in order. Some changes were made to the budgetary agreement in the Financial Committee. In the work of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs on this budget, however, no re-priorities have been made. That is why I will be very careful to refer to our comments in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e354	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e357	I record that the Labour Party and the Centre parties have now found each other in child and family policy. Otherwise, one cannot interpret it when they now consistently refrain from taking replicas on each other in an area where they have previously been like dogs and cats. Of course, the main problem with the agreement is that it reduces the families of children to DKK 1.1 billion. The Ministry of Children and Family, at the request of the Right, has estimated that a three-child family will lose DKK 35,000 in child welfare over the 18 years they receive child welfare. This sells the Christian People's Party as a good family policy. The private kindergartens wear so much that the department itself indicates that 14 pst. of the private kindergartens are on the brink of bankruptcy. This doesn't make any difference. Instead, it will stimulate the construction of new kindergartens. Is it not more right to secure what one has, and thus to ensure that the private kindergartens, for which the Christian People's Party has shown a certain interest in at least before, have the possibility of good and stable operating conditions? The most eye-catching thing in the small compromise reached in the committee may be that it is the first successful – if anything puzzled – attack on the cash support from the Workers' Party. The working party has been given an advantage to cut the cash support by 1 million. kr. Not a sum to rise above, but this million will go to strengthen organisations and institutions that in the public debate have been the strongest critics of cash support. Among those who now receive extra funds is the Competence Center for Gender Equality, which through its leader Ingunn Yssen makes Grethe G. Fossum appear as a mother kindhearted in his argument against the cash support and the Christian People's Party's family policy. Does he borrow this paradox, and will he regret that in this way he undermines the legitimacy of cash support through his eagerness to be block-independent?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e368	The President chooses to interpret it in a positive sense, and gives the word to Ola T. Lånke.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e371	The representative of Greece notes that the central parties and the Workers' Party have found each other in family policy, after having been at war for a long time because of the cash support. To the extent that budgetary cooperation can be characterised as having ‘found each other’, he has a point. We have had constructive and constructive cooperation in this round of budgets and reached agreement on important distributions. So that's right. Greece is concerned that the Christian People's Party has now weakened its family policy profile through the decision to extend child welfare to 18 years. I understand that it might look like this on the paper, but you have to think about what really happened through this. The extension of child welfare to 16- and 17-year-olds is an important family policy reform, which I think very many have been waiting for and looking forward to implementing. When you have to cut the rates a little bit in order to extend the amount of child benefit, it is entirely in line with the assumption that this reform will be implemented. In this context, you have to take into account changing the sibling rating, which means a substantial part of the savings you receive in this respect. No price adjustment is made for the benefit of children. I see that the Right has suggested it. Price adjustments have not been made since 1993, gradually weakening the value of family allowances. Very much of the depreciation is right here, and this is some of the things that we might be able to look at in retrospect. In the case of the cut in item 21 under cash support, it is not about weakening the cash support, but it has been seen that there is room to reduce the item for managing the cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e382	It is good that someone has gradually discovered the small success of the attack on the cash support. But that's not what I was going to bring up. I have recorded that the government parties – and so is the representative Lånker – constantly repeat it, or at least allow me to call it that rudeness, that there is now an independent right of use for fathers, and that we have our own rights in the matter of birth. It's probably a moment before we get that far, at least as long as restrictions are imposed on the need for care and that the rights are linked to many conditions in the mother's work situation. What I'm a little curious about, on the other hand, is how Christian People's Party wants to come. Do they want to get there that we get full access to fathers, or are they satisfied with what has been done so far, which is a first step on the road, but as the Workers' Party has perceived as it and nothing more? We're not satisfied with this the way it is. Isn't it soon that the men also get some extended rights in relation to this point?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e391	The full performance of fathers should be a measure. In this regard, we have chosen to introduce a so-called limited entitlement for fathers based on their own job breaks, but we have to note with the limitation that it is assumed that the woman has 75 pst. position. I have registered that there have been objections to this being a good equality policy. Nevertheless, this is a reform which has been requested and proposed by no less than two previously reduced samples, including the Longva Committee. We're looking at this as an important step in the right direction, not just to give fathers this right from an equality policy point of view, but we think it's generally good family policy. I guess we can never say we're satisfied with a reform that's not 100 pst. But that's what we've found room for now, so we're going to have to take a step at a time. We are convinced that this is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e397	: Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e400	The Government has presented its budget as a step towards better distribution, balancing the differences in living conditions to which the Cohesion Communication pointed. But the result has become the opposite. We have a budget that reinforces existing inequalities, and those that are hardest hit are the ones that initially have the most difficulty. Families with children between 16 and 18 years of age get adequate child welfare, whether or not they need it, whether or not the youth earns money, whether or not the youth is living at home or living on shelter, or possibly cohabiting with a 25-year-old with a high income. The only problem is who is going to get social security paid: the youth itself or the youth's parents. Child welfare is to be paid for young people who have become parents themselves, but to whom? Is the young mother going to have child welfare both for herself and for her child, or is it grandma going to have child welfare for the grandchild's mother? According to press releases, both teenage mother and child are to be granted child benefit, provided that the young mother has not married the child’s father, in which case the benefit falls away. On the other hand, whether the young parents live in cohabitation, they retain their own child welfare. This is a new twist on the family political ideology of the Christian People's Party, but it cannot be interpreted otherwise. These issues show how little thoughtful this reform is. There are families, especially single-parent families, who need the support of society in addition to normal child-rearing age of 16. Therefore, it was appropriate to explore the need to establish a consistent system, but overall extension to 18 years is not a rigorous system in relation to the diversity of this group. And then it's strange that a conversion of support schemes that gives the state a proceeds of SEK 1.1 billion next year is presented as an improvement for the families of children. It was bad how it was from the government's side, it got worse through the conciliation. Then the loss of children’s families increased to DKK 1.1 billion. And the bill goes to most families with children. For the first and second children, the loss, over the entire child-restraint period, is on the upper edge of NOK 7 000 per person. children, and for the third and subsequent children the loss is greater. A three-child family loses at the top of NOK 35,000, and it is also lost for a single-parent with two children. It is only the caregivers, those who have the most difficulty before, who become the major losers of this reform, those with only one income to meet the tax increases. They don't get any tax credits, because they can't afford to be part-time employees, but they get more expensive electricity, higher broadcasting fees, more expensive petrol, and less child welfare. This must be the least successful cohesion reform ever presented as an improvement. The right-hand model, with a 16-year-old-price-adjusted child allowance and unaltered deductions rules, would, in comparison with the budget agreement given to the families of children, cost SEK 1.6 billion more. The winners of this reform are married couples with such a good economy that their mother can be part-time employees, as they will then be compensated for the loss of children through their mother’s tax haven. This kind of cash support for families with a useful economy may well fit well into the Christian People's Party's values, but how the Labour Party's women may have negotiated this, I absolutely don't understand that. Here they have been fighting for two years with beaks and claws against a general cash support for young children's parents, and now Igland has not only blessed the cash support, but without the possibility of misunderstandings admitting that it has come to stay. And now they're in favour of another and hidden form of cash support, which is really just targeting couples with good finances. I see this as a serious estimate of equality, the most serious thing we've seen for a long time. Married women will be subjected to pressure from home; why work more if they get the same amount left to work less – especially when this comes to the top of last year's pension regulations, where the special deduction increases at the expense of the basic amount and most incentives for occupational equality are reduced? Yes, there will be some kitchen aprons under the Christmas trees this year! A little bit about child protection. The expenditure on child protection has exploded, and at the same time we see that there is still strong criticism of child protection. I want to make it clear that I am convinced that child protection is doing a very good job in most cases. But when a public body intervenes in the inner life of a family, it is not to avoid conflicts. Unfortunately, too many children are living under conditions that make it absolutely necessary for someone to intervene, and it is worrying when it is signaled by some child protection agencies that there is too little fear of public criticism in relation to children who have difficulties. It shouldn't be like that. High turnover is also a problem at many child protection offices. Children's protection offices are losing experience, which should be built up instead. The most serious conflict between child protection and families arises from the forced adoption of care. And here I have no doubt that some wrong decisions are made. We should now have an evaluation of how the county council system has worked. Are children’s and parents’ legal certainty adequately protected by those who strongly support their decisions on the individual judgement of child protection workers and where child protection lawyers also rely on the judgements of the same case handlers and to a small extent on evidence that parents and families fail their tasks in relation to children? Child protection workers with little experience in life may, in some cases, be given too much power over the lives of other people. The many media-focused conflicts in this field may indicate that case handlers with such power need greater professional weight than is often the case. A specialised follow-up training for these would be beneficial. I think that in most cases a good job is still being done, but this is exactly what the care take-over processes should be evaluated. It is worrying that when child protection intervenes and assumes responsibility for a child, they often exclude the entire family’s contact with the child. It is serious for a child to be completely cut off from their roots — from his grandparents, from his aunts and uncles, and there is no reason to say that grandparents approaching 60 are too old to take care of their grandchildren. We have the most up-to-date and active grandparent regeneration ever, and it is important that ties between the child and the child's family are maintained. This often does not understand young socionomists. They see young foster parents as a better solution than stable biological families that can go in. I hope that the reform of child protection that has been signaled will provide more for the biological networks that connect children to family. We still have problems with children and young people with serious behavioural problems. They live in many ways in a lawless and lawless room. In the case of children with drug-related problems and children with complex behavioural disorders, it is regrettable that for many of these children, the parent’s resource background determines whether they come under the responsibility of psychiatry or whether they are placed under the protection of children. We need a stronger build-up of the psychiatric services aimed at children and young people. So a little bit about the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Administration. The tasks of the county council are listed in a very good way in the budget proposal, and I would like to clarify the role of the county council as a judicial body, especially the task of bringing children in the child protection institution. Priority needs to be given to work within the county's area of responsibility. There is no need to use unresourced resources to explain that you are not meeting your obligations, especially to children in an institution. It must have top priority. And if there's a lack of money, you get a rather down-prioritizing something else that's less important. As far as the division of labour between levels of administration is concerned, it is a matter for consideration. We expect to have a proposition for a more efficient and appropriate distribution by the end of the ageing period – we have to start thinking a little about the demands that we have to get things done quickly – so that we can go through them thoroughly. We see from the budget proposal that it will require some legislative changes to simplify and streamline administrative levels. The right very much welcomes the fact that legislative proposals are coming on an ongoing basis. There is no reason to wait until the whole work is completed until we get the necessary legislative amendments. And so a little bit about Statskonsult: we see it as very important that Statskonsult gets a small pot of budgetary resources so that on its own initiative it can go into the public administration to make recommendations for efficiency and simplification also in central government agencies. It would be preferable for a body to protect itself from its own assessment of effectiveness, so if one is to have an assessment of the effectiveness of central government bodies, it must be at the initiative of the State Consultant. That is why we have proposed that they get a pot for it. Finally, the right will set aside a good pot – 304 million. kr – to Landsbyggen, so that they can complete the start of construction, and so that the building on the waiting list can be completed and under construction. We can convert a lot of unnecessary paperwork into productive social work, like that. to obtain rational and well-demanded barley.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e432	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e435	In its general remarks in the preamble, the Right in the introduction stressed that clear public service requirements had to be set, that they should be available when people need them, that services should be of high quality and that they should be adapted to the needs of the individual user from time to time. It sounds very nice, but the right is almost consistently tickling in the public offer appropriations in its original budget proposals. And as far as I remember, they've cut $4 billion in the municipal budget for next year. How does the Right see that the public should be able to meet the strong demands they make here, with ever less money? We have a growing need, and an increasing number of people demanding the municipalities. Isn't the right-wing scheme a system of privatisation based on an ideological basic attitude? In that case, you should say it openly. I would also like to confront the Right with the remarks on the supervisory tasks of the county council with regard to child protection, not least because Inger Stolt-Nielsen was so strongly stressed that it was not necessary to reduce this work. But the right is here with the Advance Party, albeit a little bit more modest: they're only cutting 10 million. kr. The right is doing a shot of any savings, and then they hope the best. In my view, it is mildly said that a slightly reassuring procedure is being chosen here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e446	The proposition states that some new financial regulations and new infrastructures have been put in place on the basis of, for example: IT to make the whole administration more efficient, and we expect this to be a saving. Ten million. kr on all county offices is not very much, to be honest. We're convinced that it's possible. So for publicly available services based on the community economic proposition. Yes, it is that the Right would give less in the context of the transfers, but then we would in return let the municipalities retain more of their free money in tax money than the cooperative partners agreed on. In addition, municipalities would also benefit from the fact that the electricity charge was not set up. They would also benefit from reduced fuel costs. Both municipalities and counties have compulsory transport costs. So when you see all the elements together, the Right's proposal given to states and municipalities would be a better budget. The Rogaland representative told us here in the financial debate that with the help of the Workers' Party, my county, Rogaland County, had received $12 million. NOK, and that was more than they would have received after the government's arrangement. After the right, Rogaland County would have received 12.5 million. NOK, and in addition they would have the savings of an electricity tax that did not increase, in the case of reduced fuel costs, in the case of reduced taxes and reduced pay requirements. So from the local economy, I am convinced that the Right's budget would enable the municipalities to provide services much better. And with a tax system that gives families greater access to their own income, the need for public services decreases.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e455	Right is with the Progress Party in a wretched speech under the Children’s and Youth Protection chapter. Citation: ‘These members will refer here to the negative developments witnessed both in the case of young criminals and to the concern and insecurity recorded in the early childhood school in 1999 only appears to increase.’ The action plan against childhood and juvenile delinquency presented last week shows that the Government is taking the situation seriously. My question is, where did Right get its information for the quoted situation image? As I know, the research results NOVA carried out in 1998 in this area, a much more nuanced picture of the situation among young people in big cities. The study shows that positive controls, such as respect for the law, is a more correct image than the chosen, outlawing and law-enforcement. But the study reveals a small group of heavily burdened youths with extensive behavioral problems. These represent approx. 5 pst. of the young people involved in the study. I could go on with data from the crime statistics that are based on reports from the police chambers. Now back to the question: Where did Right get its background to be involved in this gloomy talk of the situation among children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e469	Of course, the right-hand side has retrieved the information where everyone else is getting information, including. from the NOVA report. We're in contact with the police, with child protection and with schools. We have retrieved information where information can be found. Luckily, the main gravity of our young people is a giant fleet. We have a high-growth generation, except for the few percentages who have a behavior that is more problematic, more conflicty, than the behaviour of problem youth before and actually makes them dangerous both to themselves and to the environment. We have always had a small part that has not been able to follow the rules, a small part that has offered problems, but the problems of these few are undoubtedly bigger today and have greater consequences. We see that various forms of dangerous youth baptism are on the rise in some environments. Young people try to do drugs that have scary long-term effects. These are problems we didn't have before, and there are problems that we have to take very seriously now. We also see that this is an increasing group. It is also stated in the budget statement on the complexity of child protection that the children of child protection who need both psychiatric services and other services are an increasingly challenging group of professionals, because the problems are heavier and different from before. I registered that the Children's Ombudsman too, not so terrible many days ago, wrote in the paper about the same thing that the Right wrote in his comments to Ot.prp. No 63 for 1997-98 on children in a room without law, children who do not receive the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e478	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e481	This is one of the most important policy areas we manage. A policy that strengthens families of all kinds will improve the growing-up environment and will help make the big community better to live in. Kindergarten statistics for 1998 show an increase in the use of short-term places for children under three years of age. There are better leave arrangements, more flexible working hours and the introduction of graduated cash support that have led to increased demand for more flexible childcare facilities. At the same time, we know that private kindergartens have worn out financially, and precisely these have had very many of the smallest children in kindergarten. That's why it's so important to make a change in the payment of the operating incentive to lift the operation of these nursery facilities. After the plural proposal, this will now be done. For the Central Party, a real choice with regard to cash support has always been important. Then it's important to have enough nursery places for the little ones. That is why we are also looking forward to the upcoming kindergarten announcement. The Center Party has been fighting for too long for the birthright of birth money for fathers. Until now, it's just been tied to the mother's dishes. Thus, families would often go down in income when the danger took out leave. Yet, unfortunately, the income of fathers is higher on average. Now it must be right that even father can take out leave and thus get to know the newcomer in the family. Until now, only two-thirds of fathers have benefited from the four weeks they have been entitled to paper school. Very few have taken out more. Otherwise, there is no reason to believe that Father should not be able to take his responsibility and get his food in this field. This is equality at best. The Consumer Council has been increasingly important. The aim is to ensure good and secure products for consumers, as well as new knowledge and market developments. Consumers' quality perception has changed. Policies in this area have been given more political substance. This has been clearly seen in the fact that the Consumer Council has been more active both at national and international level in the case of amendments to the EU Directive on genetically modified organisms and the extension of the EEA Agreement in the veterinary field. Consumers and regulators in several European countries are now increasingly aware of the fact that ethics, social responsibility, environment and interest in consumer requirements are prerequisites for long-term employment ignition. This is what I expect, that there can be wide debate about in connection with the user message. When it comes to the political parties, they have a central place in our regime and parliamentary system. Public political party rights are the basis for strengthening this at all levels and enabling a broad nationwide organisation to operate. I am therefore pleased that there is now a solid majority who support the fact that there is as much money to be paid in public party support locally, even though voting was lower this year than before. Under previous rules, this will have been reduced. It is not desirable for political parties to become more dependent on business, private individuals or private organisations to carry out operations. The system is now such that the appeal of the political parties to their youth organisations is given by the vote of the mother party. The centre party believes this is unfair in relation to the mass of members and the activity that youth organisations have, since they are completely independent organisations. Therefore, a basic amount should be secured by the Party youth organisations before the remaining portion of the licences are allocated by size of the lot. Now there is no youth organisation that is so much subsidised per year. Member of the Progress Party with its fear of subsidies. At the same time, this party sees it as unfortunate that the political party is relying on big revenues from the public. There must be a paradox for that party. We now look forward to and hope that support for youth organisations can be remedied at the next budgetary procedure, in order to bring about a fairer arrangement in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e502	There is one thing I've always wondered about: how difficult it is in this rich society to find funds for preventive child labour and youth work, to prevent our children from coming out crooked. The situation is that once the damage is done, society just has to poke out to repair both the pure material and the human damage. And all too often we fall short, especially on the human level. The damage is not repairable. It's a paradox that the richer we get as a nation, the worse it seems to be finding money for prevention. What we do is all too often what I want to call climbing, even though the intentions are never that good. There is no lack of good intentions and action plans, but when it comes to the economic aspect, we do not like to dare kline properly, although most of us admit that it is expenditure on saving future expenditure. This is because what we invest in prevention will be doubled at a later stage. I wish we could have a proper and comprehensive debate on these contexts. Perhaps the Government’s main message, the Action Plan against Child and Youth Crime, can form the basis for such a debate. The debate must not just focus on the measures to be taken, because there I think we can quickly agree on a great deal. There must also be a debate on what we are willing to invest in the economy in the follow-up. In the budget we are discussing today, there are several small proposals for funding aimed at prevention. But with all due respect, it's going to be too small on the basis of the big challenges we're in the middle of. In an article earlier today, I came up with the priorities of the last few years and pointed out that when the will is really there, the money is also there. So there's no financial excuse for not taking a force in this area. And on top of that, as I said, it's about investing in the future in a way that makes both society and individuals get a lot more than it will cost today. The Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs is also responsible for a substantial part of the Ministry of Labour and Administration's budget. That budget also contains very important budget lines. I find reason to draw out the appropriations for the county offices in particular. The majority of the Committee consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre's Party show in a note that the number of annual works has been reduced by a total of 8.7 pst. for the period 1996 to 1998, without corresponding reductions in the number of tasks. This has been done as a result of the requirement to adapt the activity to the adopted budget framework. Of course, the majority agree that government officials must also keep their budgets and that they must carry out conversion processes. Nevertheless, we express concern that today’s situation may affect weak groups — for example: in the field of child protection — and legal certainty in general. The majority therefore emphasise the importance of the rapid implementation of the transition process and that it is followed up by a thorough evaluation of the situation. It is striking that the Right Party and the Advance Party did not wish to support this comment, despite the fact that they too are concerned with legal certainty, especially in the area of child protection. After commenting on the fact that 16 out of 18 states broke the legislation to take account of one of the weakest groups in society, the two parties conclude by expecting further reductions in staff and proposing a cut of 10 million respectively. SEK 34 million. kr. It doesn't exactly strengthen the credibility of the two parties in this area. In recent years, it's just been getting worse and worse for people looking for housing in our bigger cities. In particular, it's Oslo, our unruly capital. The working party and SV have found it appropriate that the state also helps to remedy the distress. This is why we agree on a note asking the Ministry to assess whether some of the properties managed by State Building can be disposed of for housing purposes for the most disadvantaged. In the light of the relatively positive answers given by the Council of State to questions in the Questionnaire, it seems a bit strange that the parties in the centre could not support the comment. Of course, we are aware of the primary task of State Building, but in an extremely difficult situation, all possibilities have to be tested. I hope the Council of State will nevertheless make the assessment she was not unwilling to enter into. In conclusion, like Grethe Fossum, I would like to express my concern that the government is repeatedly coming to a collision course with the trade union movement by resorting to concluded agreements, such as the AFP and the waiting wage system. Changes to such agreements must be made in consultation with the parties. Also in the future, we will depend on having a responsible trade union movement as a partner, not just as a counterparty.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e523	For the Government, it is a primary objective to facilitate good growth and living conditions for children and young people, a safe economic and social situation for families with children and full equality between women and men, as well as participation in the same line in home, working life and society. The government prioritizes a policy that provides freedom of choice for small children’s families through cash support and increased child care coverage, and measures for more flexibility in family and work life. The objective of full needs coverage in the kindergarten sector is set. All families who so desire shall be provided with nursery facilities for their children. National budget proposals have provided for the establishment of 4,000 new children’s kindergartens for children over three years of age. As planned in 1999, we expect to achieve the target of full needs coverage in 2000 for this age group. Based on feedback from municipalities about the plans and needs they have in the kindergarten sector, it seems that it will take a little longer for development to be completed for children under three years of age. In order to increase the rate of kindergarten expansion, the Government has proposed the introduction of a stimulus boost. The budget agreement at Stortinget provides for the construction of 2 000 more kindergartens than the 6000 Government had set up. Together with the stimulation effort, this will be an important contribution to achieving the goal of full choice for several small children’s families. The Government will present an action plan for the work that remains to be done to meet the full needs of the child care policy to be submitted to the Storting in a short time. In line with the agreement between the Government Party and the Right and the Advance Party, we will also present in the message proposals that will ensure a greater level of non-discrimination between municipal and private kindergartens on the part of the municipalities. Over the two years of central government, we have been in position to act strongly in the field of family policy as well as in the nursery sector and in cash support. First of all, I would like to name the fathers, who are given the independent right to raise birth money. I am pleased to note that a co-consultant's committee ends up dealing with the proposal. There is no lack of declarations of intent over the years in relation to such a reform, and now it becomes a reality. Secondly, child-restraint is extended to 18 years. As a result of this change, we meet a strong desire from many parents with larger children. The government sees it as important to secure children and young people good and safe breeding conditions, and will strengthen efforts for children and young people. In the budget, we set up an increase in the rewards of international youth cooperation. Support for voluntary organisations for children and young people is also increasing. The programme for strengthening the growing-up environment will be continued. The aim is to strengthen the local growth environment through a broad interaction between public and voluntary forces. As the Storting is well known, the Government has, in accordance with the signals in the budget proposal for the current year, provided additional funds for 1999 for both the Children's and Youth's organisations and the development programme. The development of power among children and young people disturbs us all. Last week, the Government issued a big message on the action plan against child and youth crime. The plan shall be implemented in cooperation between five departments over a period of five years. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs has given ear-marked funds to the county councils to work with children and young people with serious behavioural problems since 1995. The permissions have gone to professional upgrades, such as: quality assurance of institutions and competence measures for staff. Local authorities do not have the competence they need in this kind of case. This is why it is so important that the county council is developed and that it can help municipalities to find good arrangements for children and young people with serious behavioral problems. In line with this, we also follow the conclusion of an expert group set up by the Norwegian Research Council on behalf of the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The report concludes that institutions alone are not suitable for young people with serious behavioural problems. The same two departments cooperate on training in two different ways: one is a family-based provision for young people who are characterised by serious behavioural problems. For younger children, it is a method of training parents to use alternative and more appropriate strategies in everyday life to deal with their children’s behavioral disabilities. Both methods can prove good results in the United States. While men are most often exposed to power in public places, women are particularly exposed to power in their homes. Police figures show that the vote against women is usually carried out by current or former spouses or cohabitants. Often, children become witnesses to the choice between parents. The community is responsible for facilitating the situation so that, often invisibly, it can be prevented. Direct prevention is central to the government’s action plan against violence against women. The government is very concerned about how commercial pressure affects children and young people. In line with the Consumer Policy Notice, a selectivity has been set up to address measures to reduce the commercial pressure on children and young people. The selection shall deliver its suspension by October of next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e556	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e559	I must admit that I am a little confused about the representative Lånke is speaking from this pulpit, and that is what the Council of State is replying to in letters to the Committee. It's about the fathers' autonomous right to benefit. I would like to have from the Council of State a definition of what self-employment rights are for men and women, because the self-employment rights for men are linked to the fact that the woman after birth is in 75 pst. full-time or full-time studies, while the self-employment right for women is not dependent on the man’s employment or study effort. We can get double care if the man's dissatisfied, if he's home. Whatever the man does, the woman is fully entitled to birth grant. That means there's a difference between men and women. Is it equal? I would like to ask the Council of State: who is right? Is it the model of Loan, which thinks this is a step in the right direction and will go further, or is it the model of the Council of State, which actually means a difference between men and women, which is right? And if it's the government council that has the right model on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I'd like to know when she's going to take away women's autonomous right to profit, so that we can be absolutely sure that women and men don't have care at home at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e568	Yes, I guess we're both right, both the representative Lånk and I. What's quite clear is that proposing your own dishes for fathers has a lot to talk about for years. No one has suggested it before we suggested it now. I would like to characterise the proposal we have put into the budget as a good start to a good one. We'll come back to Stortinget with this case, where we'll be able to find out in more detail what our model will be like. Then we'll have a broader debate on the very fathers' rights. But I have to honestly admit that I think it's a little funny that the question should have such a negative value, because I actually thought this was something that most people would be happy for. We are busy and have started from the Longva selection setting, which went in to allow the fathers to apply the dishes if there was no double care. Then you can say that there is a difference between the rights of the fathers and the rights of the mothers. But we're going to have a more thorough debate on this when we bring the matter before the Storting. I am of course prepared to listen to what the Storting says. At the same time, it has a cost. We've now started a process to grant fathers real permissions. Of course, such a case can be improved in the years to come, if we find reason for it. But I think we should become a few that it is not the best economy to give double support to parents so that both parents, if they are healthy and up-to-date and non-student, will be able to stay home at the same time for a longer period of time. At least I want to limit it to that. And then we'll see what the result is, after we take a more thorough debate on the model in Stortinget when we present the case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e577	Governments spend a lot of time on child protection and prevention in relation to juvenile delinquency and the problems we see today in the streets and in schools. The representative, Mr Breimo, from the Labour Party, was concerned with the priorities of the Advance Party and the Right in relation to cuts in the appropriations. I would like to ask the Council of State whether the response to the prevention of juvenile delinquency we see today is more money, when we see 116 million granted. DKK under Child and Youth Action, 200 million. SEK under Measures in the field of child protection, SEK 133 million. kr under family protection, inter alia, and there are additional appropriations under other chapters in the area of prevention. The Council of State also spends some time on the action plan presented. I'd like to quote from a press release from NTB: ‘The next year, a probationary system will be set up with youth contracts where young offenders can avoid punishment if they settle and change their behaviour. It informed Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum when he presented the government’s new action plan against childhood and juvenile delinquency on Thursday, together with Minister for Child and Family Affairs Valgerd Svarstad Haugland.’ I ask then, isn't that exactly the problem we're in the middle of, that kids and young people can't be responsible for their actions? Isn't it simply the problem when we experience situations like the one we had last week, when a person caused the death of a 26-year-old mother and then later stood up and told us it wasn't his fault, but it was the fault of the police and the public? Is it not the situation today that we have to make such young people responsible for their actions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e593	I believe the answer to the question from the representative Sandberg is composed. The answer may be both more resources and a better use of resources. We may have better coordination between the different agencies, between the different child services and those responsible for them. The action plan contains a number of such actions. Some of them want to demand more money and others don't need it, so I think it's both. I would also like to stress that the solution, of course, is not that children and young people should not be responsible for their actions, but being responsible for their actions is not necessarily the same as being as strict as possible. There may be many reasons why children and young people take offense, both in older and younger age, and in different ways. Most of those who have the worst have also had an unlikely evil childhood. They have had major problems for many years, and many of them actually need care, care, care and a new start more than they need severe punishments. I'm glad we can see this in context. It's not about sewing pillows under the arms of anyone, but it's actually about giving them an alternative to getting them on the right cool. If we can find a grip that actually gives these young people a new chance, I kind of thought that the discussion about more severe punishments or not is quite uninteresting. That's actually the best thing for them, and it's also the best thing for society, if we can do it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e602	The Christian People's Party wants to be a friend of the children's family – perhaps the very best friend of the children's family! Thus, this year’s budgetary settlement must be a disappointment to those who have put their trust in the Christian People’s Party as a driver of improved conditions for the children’s family. The conversion of child welfare is so far only the Ministry of Finance has reason to rejoice. The Council of State itself has determined — on questions from the Right — that a three-child family will lose more than NOK 35000 on the conversion of child benefit over an 18-year period. What does the Council of State say to this group and all the other groups that are losing on this change in child welfare? On page 124 of the budget, the Ministry states that 14 p.m. of the private kindergartens are on the brink of bankruptcy. This represents more than 10000 kindergartens. In the budget, one does not take the consequences of this at all, but rather chooses to attract new private and public kindergarten starters with incentive grants, so that one then might be able to set up 8 000 new places next year. Is the Council of State paradoxical that while 10,000 private kindergartens are at risk of closure, an incentive for the creation of new places should be provided? In the Right's view, it's certainly time for the kindergarten message to come, so that the government's unlimited passivity in the field of private kindergartens can be corrected. Is the state council concerned about the operation of private kindergartens, or is the plan to smuggle all private kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e618	First of all, to the question of the families of children's children's economic situation -- I'm wondering this whole cottage has heard Right's argument in relation to the families of children's families' economic situation. First of all, the government has done the job that we promised to do in the cash support agreement. In fact, we went further than in the cash support agreement in relation to proposing child benefit to the age of 18, without increasing the total amount, as stated in the agreement, an agreement with the leader of Trond Helleland has been signed, including the leader of the Progress Party. I'm happy with the results. To distribute the same money across several children without anyone losing in the short term, I do not understand that it is even possible to try to problematize. Well, I believe in the sub, but I haven't even asked for such a sub like this. The second thing I notice is that the right is making it a big point that we haven't adjusted the child's pension this year. Right didn't say anything about it last year, nor in the previous year – neither was child-friendly price adjusted. This wasn't a problem at all, but this year it's a problem, because we have a budget agreement with the Labour Party. Child welfare hasn't been priced since 1994, I think, and we'll see what we can afford next year, but at least I don't think that's the big point and that will make the families of children get so much worse. So the NOK 35,000 that these families lose is going to be $55 per cent. Children per day month – that’s not the big amount – but they get child benefit for 18 years, and it says families of children that they want to. When children are 16 and 17, they are actually more expensive than both the children of Trond Helleland and my children are too late. To the last question, that goes to private kindergartens: the nursery school message comes before Christmas, and there we also want solutions on how we want to ensure that private kindergartens are not municipalized, but are able to survive.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e629	In all work on children, multidisciplinary cooperation is needed, and it also underlines the Government of the Action Plan on Child and Youth Crime presented. I fully agree with that. But then I have experience that when the different agencies that are going to cooperate, have bad unions, bad advice, then have also cooperated poorly, because the leaders of the different institutions, schools, kindergartens, child protection or whatever it is, have been told one very clearly, and that is that they are going to keep the budgets. We know that many of the floors have tight budgets. Why? Well, because the local economy has been slowing down all along. It has its background in the fact that private consumption has increased by DKK 12 billion in 1999, it may have something to do with the commercial pressure against children; there might be a connection here. It also leads to greater differences. The government underlines the importance of balancing the differences in the fight for better growth conditions. So here we need a solid redistribution from the private sector to the municipalities, and I would like to ask the Council of State, as the leader of the Christian People's Party, what she intends to do to get to that redistribution. Then I want to move on to the situation of gay and lesbian. Their interests will be per year. today, long on the road taken care of by LLH. And I am very pleased with the big message that comes from the NOVA report that probably sent some shock waves into every environment. But in the meantime, the work has to be done, and then the economy of LLH is crucial for them to be able to carry out the tasks they have today. What will the Council of State do to improve the economy of LLH, so that they can be able to carry out these tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e640	I would like to remind the representative, Valle, that I am not in the Chair of the Christian People's Party, I am here as Minister for Children and Family Affairs, and I would like to answer questions as Minister for Children and Family Affairs. It is sometimes tempting to change roles, but I will not be tempted to do so. When it comes to redistribution in relation to private consumption and the municipalities' desire for more resources, it's an interesting discussion. We have put forward a big message of live-out solitude where we point out a lot of points in that way, and it is to be handled in Stortinget. Some of it has also been followed up in the budget, but something needs to be followed up in the next round. Everything cannot be done at once. When there is an increase in support of LLH, the representative, Valle, knows that we are discussing a switch to support for family policy organisations. I got an adjustment in our case for a redistribution, but I did not choose to implement it from 2000, because I know it would have gotten quite large sequences of support for, among other things. LLH and some other organisations, while others would have gotten a lot more. I felt that the redistribution proposed was very drastic, especially for LLH, so I've postponed it for a year. And what we're going to suggest next year, of course, I can't say anything yet. I want to remind you that LLH received almost 1 million. kr in support a few years ago, and it has still been cut off by the Workers' Party government without anyone making any number of it. I also want to add that I'm actually happy for the $100,000 there is room for LLH in the budget agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre Party. I may also feel, as SV writes in the setting, that LLH is located a little wrong in the budget, and I'm going to go in and see what we can do with it. I'm concerned with the same problem that Ågot Valle raised, but I can't promise anything more than what they get through the budget agreement. Then we'll get back to the overall situation of the organization next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e651	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e655	In today's society, there is much evidence that the family as a community is threatened. There will be more and more lonely and an increasing number of lonely dependants. Several people choose the consensual form instead of marriage, the number of divorces increases, the connections are less binding than before and it is easier to change partners. The family structure is in disintegration. If we want the family to remain the bearer element of society, we must reverse this development. The question of family, as we know it through history, is of importance to society, the development of society, the quality of life of citizens and the possibilities for development, must be an unconditional yes. For the individual, family ties, association, belonging, community, security, protection, and a long way to go give meaning to life, even though not all family members at all times feel that having a family is unprofitable. It has clearly proved impossible for the public to take over all the care tasks that were previously carried out by the family. The socialist social idea that the welfare state – the community – should take on the care and mission tasks that previously belonged to the family when the adult family members left home has proved unrealistic. The welfare state doesn't have the power to solve the problems, and many of the families can't do it anymore. This affects the weakest in society, and the children become the suffering party. In the last 15-20 years, there has been a change in the framework of stable family relationships. The family's ability to have a stable care and mission function is significantly impaired, perhaps especially due to increased cost of living. At the same time, there has been an explosion in education, and more and more people have taken up education beyond primary education and have chosen to make active use of education by seeking paid employment. Attitudes among people to work at home and the economic discrimination on the part of governments towards single and two-income families have gradually led to homes being emptied for adults much of the day. The family is primarily important for the sake of the children and their future. It is therefore necessary to facilitate the family's ability to take responsibility for their children, their mission and their development. Here the cash support has shown that at least some of these problems can be solved by this kind of non-discrimination. Here, parents have been given a choice as to how they can solve their daily tasks in such a way that the family can be more together without overly damaging the economy. The Advance Party is convinced that the parents are the best fit to care for their children. Therefore, it is important to facilitate the home of one of the parents while the children are young. This is best done in the opinion of the Progress Party, among others. to provide a better financial basis for young children’s parents through a spouse-shared tax, increased child benefit and deduction of all real child care expenditure and now cash support. It's interesting to see that some opponents of this system now seem to be able to accept this more or less. In order for all parents to have real opportunities to choose between working at home or outside, transfers to families with children must be neutral, so that everyone receives equal support from the public. The support must therefore be so large that the choice becomes real that you have the opportunity to opt out of a labour income. So back to the basics of a family debate, which is who's going to decide what's best for the individual family and its way of life. Is it the state or is it the individual family? That society, including the family, must have certain driving rules, we all agree. But once these rules are established, in the view of the Progress Party, there is no doubt that it must be the responsibility and the right of the individual family to care for themselves and theirs in the best way possible. I don't think there are any families in this country that are exactly the same in all areas and thus fit into the same pattern. That's why we have to give the families the freedom and the economy to set up within the defined driving rules, just as this family wants.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e674	This year's budgetary settlement, contrary to what the budget-mates like to produce, will involve a major attack on the economy of families with children. The Labour Party took the time to accept the cash support in order to provide the Norwegian people with a better distribution policy, especially in view of groups with a difficult economy. Children’s families were clearly a priority target group to benefit from the new distribution policy. In this argument, it is also the subject of a settlement with the Right that would weaken the economy of families with children. At the same time, the Christian People's Party wants to be the best friend and benefactor of children's families, and they market themselves as a family party. Then I find it alarming and revealing that the budget agreement involves a loss for the families of children of NOK 1.1 billion, and that only within the budget of the Ministry of Children and Family. The increased electricity tax, increased petrol tax and some other taxes that go in the wrong direction for the families with children have not been taken into account. The right was, as the Council of State was in it, to seek an extension of child rights to 18 years of age, but we reserved the right to consider how the concrete proposals would turn out. We've done that, and the result isn't much to jump on the roof for. Next year, the child benefit rates will be reduced, so that you get 9 948 kroner for the first and second children, compared with 11 112 kroner today. For the third and the following children, the rate is reduced from NOK 13 092 to NOK 10 994 per year. This is attack on those who want to have more than two children, and I would believe the Christian People's Party would be positive that they would get a little extra in child's care. At the same time as child welfare is extended to 18 years of age, the allowance for children aged between 16 and 18 is reduced, from about 16 to 18 years of age. NOK 2 500 for approx. $1,800. If one takes a three-child family, as I mentioned earlier, this would lose 35 938 kroner on the Workers' Party and the Government's child-rescue settlement. So one could say that this is small -- this is 50 kroner a month -- but the reality is that it's a weakening of child's health. And when the Council of State in its reply to my reply stated that the Right has not adjusted the price or proposed to adjust the amount of child benefit in the last two years, it has a very clear connection with another reform that we have been discussing, namely the cash support. If the Council of State goes back to the previous budget, before the cash support was introduced, she will see that the Right has proposed to adjust child welfare every year, and I believe that the jam Christian People's Party has also participated. But now there's the possibility of doing that, without the state council having followed up. I hope that will be looked at at at least next year, because child welfare has been quiet since 1993. Thus, the outcome of the conciliation has become a poor family policy and a poor distribution policy. We want to keep the current system of child welfare. The right will also retain the tax deduction that the Government proposed to remove. The right-hand option is to strengthen the economy of families with children, by 500 million. kr in relation to the Government’s proposal. Through the agreement with the Workers' Party, the Government has further weakened the economy of families with children by 400 million. kr in addition to the reduction of 700 million. kr that was included in the original draft budget. It seems that the government will send the bill for cash support to families with older children. There was no intention behind the cash support agreement of the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party. Otherwise, as the case rapporteur for the cash support, I have to be satisfied that the year 2000 will be the first year in which all the elements of the cash support are in place under the much-mentioned cash support agreement, and that is good. Next year, there will be a payment of NOK 3000 per year. Children per day month, and we get in addition the fifth part of the cash support that has been important to the Right in order to ensure freedom of choice. One thing that worries me more is the operating situation of the private kindergartens. It's going to be throwing blues in the eyes of people when the government and the Workers' Party put off $45 million. kr for incentives for new kindergartens while pointing out that 14 pst. private kindergartens have such a poor economy that they are at risk of being closed down. In its alternative budget, the right-hand side proposes to set at 227 million. as a special grant to private kindergartens to facilitate somewhat the operational situation, pending the treatment of the nursery service, to be provided before Christmas. I am pleased with the signal given by the Council of State that the private kindergartens should be taken care of and not communicated to the Commission. I therefore look forward with great anticipation and excitement to the kindergarten announcement, so that we can now reverse the passivity that has been here, that we can have a policy that is somewhat more offensive and positive, and that we can also achieve the goal of full kindergarten coverage in a simpler way than by putting on incentives. We know that there are a lot of private actors who want to run kindergartens. Finally, as I have said before, I would like to say that this budgetary agreement, which should be a better policy of distribution, is a step in the wrong direction in terms of the conditions of families with children. The agreement involves poor distribution policies and poor family policies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e693	One of the major challenges we face in today's society is the growing-up environment for our children and young people. Children and young people are subjected to many more temptations, greater purchasing pressure, greater demands to be schooly and successful than what we experienced as parental regeneration. Many children, too many, do not deal with such a life situation and get into an unfortunate development, despite the fact that the children may never have had as many organized leisure services as they have today. Many children lack a social network, with adults who care about them. What's the failure in the helper we built up, when the kids don't get the help they need in time? Auxiliaries are large, professionals are many, and more and more resources are being put into prevention. It is enough to mention child protection, social affairs, schools, kindergartens, the school leisure system, teams and voluntary organisations, the PP service and children’s and youth psychiatric institutions. Nevertheless, we are seeing an increasingly negative trend with young criminals, increasingly younger drug users and more and more frequent use of weapons. We will meet these children again in the child protection institutions once all other measures have been tested. We meet them again in ever-changing foster homes and in criminal statistics. These children do not need stricter penalties; they need more care. We have recently received alarming reports of inadequate treatment in our child protection institutions. This is particularly true of children with complex problems, such as drug abuse, crime, behavioural problems and mental problems. It is necessary to carry out a thorough review and to evaluate the quality of the services offered in the childcare facility. Employees need follow-up and follow-up training in order to increase their own skills. It is the responsibility of the county council, and it can take much better control of treatment provision and ensure the quality of this offer. It is fully possible to stop the use of an institution that is considered to be unqualified. Unfortunately, the development is negative. In 1999, we find that more and more high school students are testing cannabis and other drugs. Young people are increasingly accepting that friends use drugs — drugs are widely used among young people. Young people in Arendal have the same problem as young people in Oslo. We have a concentration of private child protection institutions in East Agder, and we have the country's longest line of treatment at psychiatric institutions for children and young people. It is also difficult to give them a good enough offer for school because of lack of professionals. The growth of private provision is a challenge for the state to oversee all institutions. Few statesmen are able to meet the requirements to control all child protection institutions. The provision of a child-rescue facility is very expensive. The results of those institutions should be evaluated. The number of children and young people in private institutions has tripled in five years. One place costs an average of 860,000 kroner. In Arendal, we have a youth from Oslo who costs his municipality almost $3 million. kr per. years. It must be possible to request the results of such a bet. Many institutions are likely to do a very good job, but in relation to the resources used, we should have a much better control over the available services. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that, on a previous question, the Council of State could assure you that some measures have already been taken in relation to the county council and county council.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e719	In the coming years, as a nation, we need to prepare ourselves for major challenges to our ability to adapt. Public authorities must constantly seek to streamline and improve their response. Public requirements are imposed on the provision of several types of services, in parallel with higher quality of service requirements. In such a situation, it will be essential to find alternative measures for the conversion and efficiency of public service production. The programme ‘Simplifying Norway’ is an expression that the Government considers it essential to renew, strengthen and coordinate efforts to make central government simpler and more transparent for all types of users. Simplifications are needed to improve the understanding and understanding of individual users in public schemes, to deal with their cases, to guide and help them claim their rights, and not least to benefit from public services. On behalf of the Government, I have an ambition for a more user-oriented administration. An important element here is to provide users with service statements. The government's goal is for all states to make such statements by the end of 2000, and I am happy to say that the work is in good hands in our state agencies. In addition, making it easier for users to reorganise from the point of view of the user’s experience of administration. Coordination of the first line service in the form of public service offices is a good example of this. More municipalities, including: my own municipality of Ashkoy, has gained good experience with such coordination of the first line service. But there is also a need to coordinate internally in the country. The government will now coordinate and streamline State supervisory systems and is fully committed to this work. In addition, I will strengthen efforts to improve the efficiency and improvement of the public sector in other areas, so that the overall use of resources is as good as possible. The government has entrusted it with important social tasks in general government, not only as a service provider, but also as a guarantee that individuals and groups in society will be treated effectively and properly with the public. The county offices must therefore not be seen as a cost-effective bureaucracy but as a guarantee for legal security in the welfare community, which many people have been involved in earlier today. Several members of the Committee have noticed that the number of annual posts has been reduced by nearly 9 pst. the last years without a corresponding reduction in the portfolio of tasks. During this period, all posts have made the activity more efficient through conversion projects both in relation to organisational development and through the use of new information technologies. Given today's technology and the tasks assigned to it now, I believe that the limit of efficiency has been reached, unless further more comprehensive and comprehensive action is taken. The county solves tasks for eight departments. In the Grand Duchy, seven committees deal with tasks relating to county offices and budgets are dealt with in three committees. I have therefore started an internal work that will see if it is possible to make this easier and more transparent for all of us. In 1998-99, the departments carried out a thorough review of the county staff’s task portfolio with a view to arriving at proposals for appropriate changes. Several of these proposals have been included as sub-projects in ‘Simplify Norway’, and we are doing them well. The challenge in the future will be both to balance tasks with resources and to assess an appropriate distribution of tasks between levels of government. This is currently working on the Task Distribution Committee. I believe it is right to take a position on the professional assessments only when this sample is set up next year. The size would then be expected to be invited to a discussion through a staging message.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e747	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e750	It is clear from the government's draft budget that it wants to limit new development tasks under State Building, but the reasons for this restriction seem somewhat unclear. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State if she can explain a little about what is behind such an attitude – is it the reorganization of the company or is it the consideration of economic policy and the avoidance of overheating our economy? I ask because many new larger and smaller construction projects are in the process of being implemented, not least in the education sector. If possible, I would also like to have the views of the Council of State on how she assesses the possibilities for increased activity in the state-building sector during the year. I hope that this reorganisation process in which the company is operating will not be found almost as a damp hand over the company for a long time. As you know, the company also has relatively considerable freedom to start construction projects within the framework given.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e757	To the first question. This does not necessarily have much to do with the reorganisation of state buildings. It is true that individual construction projects are given priority and promoted by individual departments, so the main reason why many construction projects do not start with design or direct construction is probably the economic situation and the priorities you have had to take on individual professional budgets. With regard to the hope of increased activity in Statsbyggen, and the question of the reorganisation puts a damp hand on the establishment, I would just say that the actual reorganisation in Statsbyggen is strongly expected by the establishment itself, and one looks forward to this reorganisation with great enthusiasm, not only in that part of State Building that is still to be a management company, but also in the part that is to be established as a new limited company. But of course, the creation of the new limited liability company will lead to some work in the first half of the year until we establish the limited liability company. But the activity itself and the joy of being reorganized is absolutely present in State Building.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e764	The Council of State spoke of ‘Simplifying Norway’, and it is a project that we in the Right greatly appreciate. We see it as an answer to what we have been asking for for years, and we are pleased that the Council of State is now expressing that a saving is expected through an efficiency process of government. We share that expectation in the right. The right has asked for an assessment of the County State's portfolio for many years. I have to give the government council and her department a flower for a very transparent and straightforward proposition this year that really shows which task portfolio the county sits with. I would like to ask the Council of State whether she already sees clear areas that can and should be distinguished from the county's portfolio. I would also like to ask whether the Government will promote legislative amendments in relation to the public administration and the efficiency process there, and whether the Government will promote legislative amendments on an ongoing basis, or whether they intend to wait until the entire conversion document is completed. Finally, a small question about Statsbyggen: does the Council see it as a problem that the restrictions, the cutting-off of the budget of Stadsbyggen, can both exaggerate construction projects and lead to the postponement of construction projects that should perhaps not have been put at risk, that we are perhaps in the process of developing a post-construction within the responsibility of Stadsbyggen which we might have wished to be ahead of us?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e773	When it comes to moving tasks to other agencies, i.e. from state to state, I have noticed that there is something about it in the budget position. But we don't have a case for moving tasks, but we're talking about perhaps reducing the task portfolio associated with the statesmen. To the question of whether we will continually make changes to the law: Yes, to the extent that we can do so, it would be desirable. But I think the biggest steps on the legislative change side must be to wait until the Task Distribution Committee is done with its work next year. That's really my primary answer to that. But we're working on reducing the county government's tasks related to it, for example. is directly on reporting, because there is a lot of reporting today, for example: from the municipalities to the state via the county officials. Here, there can be a lot of simplifications that we don't necessarily need to change the law to take care of. Otherwise, I can mention some of the projects within ‘Simplify Norway’ which are directly linked to the county. This is the case by facilitating electronic reporting, less reporting, as I mentioned, a somewhat more modern name law, which will simplify a part, a better system of free legal assistance and a review of the municipal regulation on planning and financial management. These are some of the measures we're going to take. As far as the last question, which was about State Building, it's a very big economic pot we've reduced by 50 million. kr. It might mean a slightly longer construction process on some of these buildings, that you start a little bit later, or that you have to pull out the construction process. We're prepared by the department to make this as harmful as possible, so it'll be a little natural if we might have to stop a place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e784	The Council of State is the head of a department responsible for government employers’ policies, and is also responsible for ensuring equal opportunities for women and men in the state, in other words equality, and equal pay is an important element of equality. NOU 1998:13 According to the 1998 statement of income, women employed full-time in 1997 had an average annual salary of 89,9 p.p. annual wages and salaries of public servants. As I know, we haven't got a new overview of developments, but what I've heard is that here the positive – but very slowly – developments we've had over the years have gone in reverse. Then it's very important that the state go ahead and show a better way towards equal pay, and that's why we have proposed an equal pay pot, which the parties can distribute. I'm tempted to ask the Council of State if she thinks equal pay is a good idea – it might be like believing in Christmas, but I want to challenge her anyway. So to the statesmen, who have the task of ensuring that state orders do not exceed the financial resources of the municipalities, I want to go back to the local economy, which we stress a lot in such debates as this. We know that the local economy is poor, and that it leads to increasing differences. But it also leads, in my view, to a threat to local democracy, because it gives politicians less business. We see then that the task of the county councillors, of monitoring the results of the municipal economy, is very important. Does the Council of State feel that it is important to give the county councillors a reminder and a message about it, and does it come back to it in the context of the revised national budget and the municipal economic pro posal?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e795	State Council Davøy - now perhaps as the Christmas event.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e799	Equal pay is important. The government is concerned with wage fixing in the labour market, and of course also with issues related to equal pay. However, the main responsibility for the implementation and design of the wage settlement lies with the parties, as the representative, Valle, knows. Now, in advance of the salary settlement, I do not want to decide which individual instruments, such as: an equal pay pot, the parties should use when we sit down at the negotiating table. It would be a procedure that would break with a normal negotiation pattern if I were to say something about this. However, in the 1990s, the central parties in the country have tried more than in the past to ensure equal pay policy considerations at all levels, and there have been key developments in favour of women in recent years. It has given some positive results, and progress is largely in the right direction. When you talk about percentages, you also have to look at, if you want to get the right picture, what jobs and what level of education you talk about here, and compare them to each other. I myself have been involved in this matter for many years, and I can assure you at least that the commitment has not diminished even if I am in this position. And to the extent that equal pay will become a topic of wage making in the future, the state will have an offensive attitude to this issue. With regard to the latter, which was about monitoring the results of the municipal economy by the county council, there is a very big question. The responsibility of the county councillors is to look at the municipal budgetary procedures and the management of the budget, and they shall continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e810	The legal certainty of children is important – especially when the public has assumed responsibility and the children are away from home in institutions. In 1998, the county councillors, responsible for which the Committee is responsible and which are very numerous, were responsible for 500 supervisory posts, or institutions. And the proposition says: ‘Some officials have had... difficulties in complying with the law’s requirements on the number of supervision visits.’ Then are my questions to the Council of State: What offices had problems? And what will the Council of State do to give legal certainty to the children? In fact, this can neither be more effective nor allow to wait until the question has been investigated. For our history, both in literature and through studies, it has shown that there have been abuses in children's homes and at work schools. We do not want to repeat this, and we have an office to ensure the legal certainty that children have. The question is: what has the Council of State done, and what will she do in the year 2000 for this to be corrected?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e822	Now it is the case that individual departments are responsible for ensuring that the county councillors receive the necessary funds to carry out the statutory duties within the respective departments. It is quite right that the county councillors have not been able to carry out the statutory supervision, among other things. within the protection of children. The county has many other tasks that are also required by law, and I have received messages from the county officials saying that it has been difficult for them within the rigid system we have to carry out the necessary number of inspections according to the regulations they are subject to. As a state council, of course, I cannot tell the statesmen that they are not going to do the statutory tasks. They have to. In concrete terms, we have looked at whether there are any steps we can take in relation to the system that the statesmen have today. We have a relatively rigid budgeting system, we have a relatively rigid solution. In fact, there is also a very small flexibility in the use of resources for the statesmen, because they get their budgeting through different chapters, through different departments, and there are several committees in the Stortinget that also deal with this, so we'll try to find a more comprehensive system in the future. We have started working on this, which we sincerely hope will show quick results.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e829	No more lines have been requested.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e832	The budget for the year 2000 is a good budget for the families of young children. It could have been better, but it could certainly have been a lot worse. The government's suggestion was worse. It would have given the families of children an even tighter economy. There would be fewer kindergartens built, and prices would have continued to increase, while the budgetary agreement between the Government and the Workers' Party has improved these areas. The parental deduction has been resumed. More money has been allocated for the construction of new kindergartens, more for the operation of kindergartens and more has been allocated to the SFO. For the Workers' Party, full child care coverage is an important objective of child and family policy. Kindergartens are good and safe care for children. For many parents, kindergartens are also a prerequisite for combining work and children, so one of the main challenges of future child and family policies is to achieve this. Norway needs more people working. By maintaining today's welfare level, we're going to need 30,000 new employees only in the public sector in 30 years' time, and that's if we say we're satisfied with today's standard, but we're not as well-known. We want more well-being, we want more kindergartens, we want better school and we want to bet on health and the elderly. It will again require more employees. In all areas, therefore, we must have a policy that makes it profitable also to be at work. In terms of child and family policy, this means that the combination of work and children needs to be stimulated. This does not mean that consideration for the children should not be heavy, because the most important thing we can give children when they are young is good kindergartens and more time with their parents. The majority agree to increase the operating grant for kindergartens by 100 million. kr and construction of 2000 new sites in addition to the Government's proposals. In this budget, the Labour Party has chosen to give priority to the provision of children between one and three years of age. It is the worst for this age group of children's gardening. The average country-wide coverage for 1 year olds is 26 pst. and for two-year-olds of 51 p.m. It shows that we have a long way left for this age group. I am therefore pleased that the majority today is giving 95 million priority. SEK in increased operating grants to kindergartens offering children aged 1 to 3 years. That means an increase in the state rate of about 5 pst. This increase should provide for a lower parental benefit and make it easier for municipalities to expand the offer for this age group. The Workers' Party has previously signaled a willingness to help the private kindergartens. Private kindergartens account for a significant proportion of the total nursery provision. We all know that private kindergartens are struggling financially. One important reason is the time of payment of operating grants. We are therefore pleased that the majority is now signaling a conversion from 1 January 2001. At the same time, we ask the municipalities to advance payments, as a temporary arrangement for the next year. Not all parents with children under school age are equal and have equal needs in terms of supervisory arrangements. Some people just want kindergarten for a few hours per. the day, while others need more evening time. In order to enable parents to continue working and to have the opportunity to combine kindergarten with, for example: working less time, daycare needs to become more flexible. The working party therefore wants more kindergartens to introduce payment for actual residence time. And I think it's a little strange that the Christian People's Party, which seems to be busy with the parents' time with the children, can't be part of this. It is quite obvious that if a mother or father wants to reduce working time to 80 pst. and take the child out of the kindergarten one day per day. week, this is very little profitable today. The income will be lower, but the payment for the kindergarten will be exactly the same. Many parents therefore choose not to reduce working hours, because they cannot afford to earn less as long as the nursery price is the same. I cannot, with my best will, understand the views of the centre parties on this matter. The plural setting presented shows that child and family policies are beginning to be distorted. The Workers' Party has been implemented in several areas. That's good, and it was absolutely necessary. The alternative had actually been more right-wing and progressive party policy. We know exactly how things have gone with the kindergartens in the two years the government chose to cooperate with them. I would very much like to conclude with a few words about competition policy. It would have fit very well into this debate, as it has progressed. It has surprised me every year that the Workers' Party has largely been the only party that has found reason to say a few words about it. Today, I will refrain from trying to start a new debate on this, but refer to what I said in last year's debate, that it is important that we also have a competition policy in the future that benefits consumers directly, not only indirectly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e865	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e868	When you're involved in moving hundreds of millions of dollars in a financial position, it's a crossroads to record what relatively small appropriations can mean in relation to culture. In the drama we had a beautiful theater without a fixed ensemble. Large resources were used by local authorities over the years to provide good working conditions there for the Rikstheater. It didn't work then, but the alternative was a groundbreaking, multicultural theater that was to be anchored in the children's and youth's perspective. This theater, named Brage, is now the pride of the city and the district. Over a short period of time, it has been able to be seen as a cultural resource far beyond its own region. The extra million now granted is a powerful incentive for further development for those involved. The expansion of hydropower in the last century has given Norway a unique foundation for energy. The challenges we are now facing are a further development of this, including the environmental requirements that will require today and the future. Now if we're going to ensure the right course, we also have to look back. Labro Watercourse Museum, linked to the Numedal Watercourse, will provide us with the experience and history from the high mountain through changing cultural landscapes to the sea. I hope and believe that the Centre will be able to develop offensively beyond what a traditional museum is, to become also a centre for the further development of knowledge, not least a centre where those who are to be decision-makers, administrative and political, can gain knowledge of what a forward-looking management of our hydropower resources means. Here, Labro can give a new dimension to the exploitation of our historical knowledge. A flexibility on the part of the Committee, with the release of NOK 300000 for start-up, will be an exciting key in this project. So multipurpose halls and sports. I would like to express my great thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Bergersen, in the Lower Eiker. The Municipal Council will ensure a solid majority there tomorrow to follow up the responsibilities of the municipality in relation to the confidence that the Stortinget is now demonstrating by deciding that one of two multipurpose halls will now be added to Mjøndalen. This should have been the experience of the paperworker and football legend «Gubbe» Andersen from Mjøndalen!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e879	I would like to comment on a comment on framework area 3 from a committee majority consisting of the Labour Party and the Advance Party. The note concerns the proposed grant to the Organisation Norway network and the assumptions that this majority will make for the grant. Multiplicity writes: ‘When the Ministry transfers responsibility for the allocation of the grant to the venues organised through the Norwegian Organisation, close follow-up is needed to ensure the use of the funds in line with the original objectives.’ Let me make the following clear: in the 2000 draft budget, the proposed grant to the Norwegian network is referred to as a round-the-clock grant. The organisation Norway Network will then become a beneficiary of grants. It will be in line with government grants to a number of other non-governmental organisations in which the country allocates funds for the purposes of organisations in accordance with the assumptions of national economic legislation. The Norwegian Culture Council, as the grant manager, will follow closely up. We also focus on having a good dialogue with the organisations. The said majority further writes that: ‘the former membership organisations of Total Norwegian Rock also participate in the organisation and the Management Board. The Ministry must ensure this before such a transfer of funds is carried out on a permanent basis». With the former member organisations in Samlatt Norsk Rock, I assume that the comment refers to GramArt, the Norwegian Rock Federation and the Active Women's Culture Center. The organisation of the Norway network has confirmed in its statutes that the Management Board shall have seven members and two alternates. Section 6 of this Statute states: ‘Minimum 3 of the members of the Management Board and minimum 1 of the alternate members of the Management Board shall be external. Externally, the member does not have a direct or indirect community of interest with any of the venues included in the organisation.’;» I interpret this in such a way that the Norwegian network has already taken account of the fact that other than the venues are to be represented on the board, and to the extent that the comment of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party is based on. At my discretion, the Norwegian network should decide for itself how to fill the three external seats.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e905	I would like to stress that I am very pleased with the redeployment that the majority of the family, cultural and administrative committee, all without the Progress Party, has done, and that the district operas around the country are thus prioritised. I've been very busy that Opera Nordfjord, in my county, would come among the most recent district operas that should get government funds. I see this as incredibly important on so many levels. It's not just to strengthen the understanding of opera as an expression, but it's really also a very good district policy, because what can't a good practitioner do before music can do for a built-up and for the whole region? Not only do they set up an operation piece. There is so much more to it than that. Exposure is the most important thing for our towns today. And such an action, such as setting up an opera view, is part of and brings out different characteristics of people – from carpenters to nurses, from songs from the local choir to the district musicians in the orchestra. Programmes shall be created and, until the good layout is needed, and shall be marketed through the local pressure. Journalists and bankers are taken along by a few of the big ones. This gives cohesion and strength. It'll be fun to live in the area because something happens – it happens in leisure time, and many people get engaged and meet to pull together. Local politicians see the value of this, for it grows in local culture, in the music sphere and other leisure activities. They see that they make well-qualified people settle when they can use their learning and fill leisure with exciting things. On stage at the Opera in Nordfjordeid, directors and barbers are in charge of bus drivers and factory workers as the most natural thing. It breaks down the divide and leads to more understanding. The last thing is very important when it comes to this art, it gets a popular commitment to go right and see the opera. What doesn't this mean for our national opera? More and more people understand the value of having a width in our culture. Therefore, it is so important that the Storting should give priority to such unilateral measures in the districts, and not least to those who have started, so that they can receive encouragement and qualified assistance through the funds. There are few possibilities for sponsors for those starting in the small towns. So there's a lot to say that one gets $20,000 for Opera Nordfjord. And funds are important to everyone else, because there's a lot of sloppy municipal boxes around, and there's little to pick up. But when government permits money, it is also easier for municipalities to recognize the importance of this work, and give priority to a few crowns, which give ten times again in terms of increased well-being, community and, not least, greater understanding and experience of a mere start that has until now been ahead of people in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e918	Even in narrow budget hours, how many will be in and share on the cultural crowns, I feel like I have to say a few words at the end of the debate. When we decided to build an opera in Bjørvika, we were clear from the districts that one should also bet on district and regional operas. I believe that both Bergen and Trondheim should get money for the opera. The mountain is not satisfied, while Trondheim has received 1 million. kr, which they do not want. I have seen the reason not to give anything to Bergen. It's because we have two opera environments, West-Norwegian Opera and Opera West, and you can't give to two by the state. The working committee leader, Valle, has gone so far as to say that the rapporteur in Bergen needs to clean up so as to create an opera environment. I disagree. I would like to commend creative people who are able to create more environments in Bergen. I'd rather criticize the Council of State, which leans back and apparently means the same thing as Valle. And the majority of the committee seems to have enough projects to prioritize, and believes that Bergen has to settle himself before the state grants anything. I would like to challenge the Council of State on two things: can there be only one opera environment in Bergen if the state is going to go in with appropriations? And – in case yes – will the Council of State take an initiative to ensure that at least one operating environment in Bergen receives state subsidies? I would like to remind you that the West Norwegian Opera was founded by the municipality of Bergen and the county municipality of Hordaland and operates as a foundation. It receives 2.6 million. kr from municipality and county and SEK 1.7 million. kr from the business life of Bergen. I expect Bergen to also get his fair share of the government's appropriations that are given to the opera, and assume that the Council of State will come back next year with money. That there are two different environments in Bergen that do not agree is not good enough reason to say no to appropriations for Bergen. Now that I have the floor, I will also mention the Western Art Industry Museum, which is now reopened after many years of closure. If this mouse is to operate properly, it needs higher appropriations. I see under the post «Knutpunktinstitutet» that the Kunstindustrie Museum in Oslo, the Vestlandische Kunstindustriemuseum and Stiklestad National Cultural Centres are mentioned. If we look at the distribution between these three, we see that Stiklestad gets 7 million. kr, Oslo gets 5 million. And Bergen gets $2.7 million. kr. I would like to hear from the Council of State whether it is such as to understand that Bergen again comes out badly because we are centrally located and is Norway's second largest city?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e934	In my view, the cultural budget is the most important budget the Stortinget has conducted in the current budget. The reason is that it's through cultural anchoring we can make us active in different social fields. Take e.g. the food budget. What are we trying to raise? Yes, it's innovation and product development – ahead with the founder! And that's where art and culture come in. How can we create an atmosphere in which Idea creation has good conditions? What is it that Norway should become a further processed product supplier? Well, it's product development and good design or design that's the thing. And we can look at the health budget, which could have been a burden on art and culture got more space, so that well-being and sense of identity could increase for the individual. The cultural committee's setting shows that, apart from the members of the Progress Party, everyone believes that access to art, crafts and design and architecture of good quality must be ensured as much as possible. It goes on to say: ‘It is particularly important to provide children and young people with opportunities to experience and develop understanding of contemporary art and aesthetic qualities.’ This is beautiful, and I can join it. But it's asking if there's kids who need to get the most watered up with contemporary art. I believe that there is a basis for saying that adults are often much more prejudiced. One should bear in mind that the only input that is required in the meeting between each individual and the art is the willingness to see, without an absolute requirement to understand. Unfortunately, many people don't want to see, and it shows that we have great challenges ahead of us to get us out of the good wording and into the reality. One of today's lecture gurus is the economist Kjell Nordstrøm. He's talking about the road to success in business is getting temporary monopoly, and to get it done, it's the good idea that needs it. It may also be worth noting that if you want to come to the mill first, you need to sympathize with the current. We have everything to gain as a nation that we're giving our artists the right to do and giving them the working conditions that enable them to become contributors in an innovation perspective. So it's not just for noble reasons, it's for food-efficient reasons like promoting idea creation and bud shooting. In addition, it's about another honorary word, easy tolerance. Art understanding, especially in the case of contemporary art, can be part of our own tolerance limits. It would seem to be a good return if one from each of the budget lines here in the United Kingdom had transferred several tens of millions of dollars to cultural purposes, unless the framework for cultural purposes is increased on its own. Perhaps there might be something to look at next year's budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e958	Then I got the opportunity to say a few words about the coat. It can be fun, because there are exciting things happening right now. Of the remarks about the coat, which has now ended under the hood. 320, for those who understand what it says, the rock is strongly strengthened by this budgetary procedure, and by a very broad majority, too, surprisingly wide majority in relation to what we have achieved before. One of the most important things is the democratization that we are gradually beginning to embrace in terms of the appointment of directors and councils in the field of music. Neither can it be true in the field of culture that the rules of the game that apply elsewhere in society must be a form of democracy in what is going on. Today it turns out that it is reasonably arbitrary in some areas – I have personal experience with what I could say much more about. But we've just established that we want to democratize this, not least in relation to giving settings and trying to give practitioners a strengthened opportunity. We also do something about the festival support scheme for the Riks Concerts, as it has been fighting and managing for the last two years. The first year was a row because the majority commented that no significant changes were to be made without anyone being notified in advance. They dropped the last half of the sentence and only used the first one to justify not giving rock festivals support according to the quality of the festivals. Last year, the Olav Festival ran away with the money, which meant that the rock festivals ended up in a disaster, and this year we were afraid of the same thing with the leaders who were on the transfer to the Council of Culture. Now we've made it clear that this time it's not going to happen. Now the coat must be taken so seriously that the music festivals that have rock and rhythmic music are assessed on the basis of quality on the same line with all the other festivals that are on the field. Then it tells itself how it will turn out. With regard to the tour, transport and festival support scheme, we do the same this year as we did last year, and so do we with regard to the Norwegian network. On the other hand, if the department had followed up what happened last year, it would have been a good solution. They chose not to do that, they ran a new proposition in ours, and we were already very clear at the time that we were not particularly happy with the organisation they now chose from the Norwegian network. It was not the optimal solution, not least because it was the venues themselves that put with this equipment that were paid by the government's funds. That is why I have to say that the 'externals', which are contained in the decision of the Norwegian network today, do not respect the comments of the majority. But of course, we are aware that there are beneficiaries, where we cannot impose anything, but we have opportunities to follow up by setting conditions not least in relation to the grants, as we do when it comes to getting new venues, in the case of venues – the conditions that can be set, and then we have to take the consequences if the organisation is not willing to follow up on time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e971	It was a long closing sentence!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e974	First, I have to thank in particular three representatives from the Workers' Party who have been up here and have given very good support to the fact that we now need to launch an offensive to get more funding for culture through the Ministry of Culture. Gunnar Breimo talked about it, Trond Giske talked about it, and Rita Tveiten also talked about it. I am pleased with that support, and I look forward to cooperation. So to Leif Lund, who came with some kick here. I referred earlier today to the fact that when we dealt with the opera message, SV had a proposal that we had to develop a comprehensive plan for the development, dissemination and production of opera throughout the country, and that that plan had to be completed by 2002. Unfortunately, we were alone in this situation, but recent developments have shown that the need to bring forward such a plan quite quickly, absolutely exists, otherwise we will have the ‘scratch method’ beyond the country. But what we've been particularly concerned about, is getting to a regional opera development, we're defining what a regional opera should be. When I have said that the environment in Bergen – and one environment actually receives state resources through the Norwegian Cultural Council – must cooperate, not come into one house, but cooperate, it is precisely because this environment has such great qualities in both areas that if they are able to cooperate, it is actually dynamite in a regional operating cycle. I can't see any other area or anywhere else that can qualify to get regional operas better than Bergen, but then we have to work together between these environments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e984	It's not a good time to change words, but it's not a good idea not to use words about languages, and more precisely about new Norwegian, and the measures that have been created to ensure our two even languages, new Norwegian and Bokmål. These two types of objectives are adjusted according to Norwegian law, and there is a responsibility on Stortinget to keep this adjustment in place. Bookkeeping is the dominant language today, not least to hear and read it daily in the media. When we know how easily we are affected, this is serious. Now there is a reason to note that Norwegian languages are all under pressure from English, not least through film and television. Language is identity. Therefore, it is important that the Storting can be a guarantee that the new Norwegian will keep its position as adjusted with the bookcase. In the context of the press, I would particularly like to point out that the Nynorsk Press Office is an important traveler in strengthening the new media, and I hope that the Minister of Culture will bear this in mind. The permissions of Norway Mållag and the Samlag have been proposed to be passed on to the current level. In my view, the promises should be increased to meet the challenges that lie entirely today. The Language Council plays an important role, which must also be strengthened, not least in order to ensure good coordination of language technology efforts. Finally, I would like to use the opportunity to say a few words about the Norwegian Theatre. So late as in the 1990-91 budgetary position, the majority of the Committee on Culture emphasises that the Norwegian Theatre and National Theatre are equal national scenes. This was followed up by the Ministry in the 1992 budget proposal. The National Theatre is about the same size when it comes to views, additions, visits and salary costs as the Norwegian Theatre. Both are the main scenes and the 'temples' of two of our country's pervasive cultural traditions. In the last few years, however, the situation has developed differently for the two theatres. The National Theatre has 8 million. kr more to meet the same costs as the Norwegian Theatre. It is no longer fair whether this should have been done for some years. I want to ask the Minister of Culture to go into this matter more closely, so that all the facts and not least the context come to the table, not with the eye to give the National Theatre less, but to lift up the Norwegian Theatre. In particular, this is important in connection with the fact that the Norwegian Theatre now wears out with a deficit, and it is worth noting that when the National Theatre was in the same situation, both in the 1980s and 1990s, it got its bottoms covered. So I want to ask that this be viewed separately.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e999	I want to recapture the thread from the family debate. The representative of Trond Helleland has had a special need in this debate to demonstrate that the Christian People's Party has failed the families of children in connection with both the draft budget of the Government and the budgetary agreement concluded between the Centre and the Workers' Party. The Netherlands refers to the reduction in child benefit rates, which is a direct consequence of three main factors: the extension of child benefit to 16- and 17-year-olds, the change in sibling rating and the lack of price adjustment. The first, the extension to 18 years, must necessarily lead to a reduction in the rate when it is to be taken within the same budgetary framework, as provided for in the cash support agreement. The change in the sibling rating has been made in order to get more into line with the cost profile of families with several children, and in the absence of price adjustment, yes, there is of course no argument that it has not been done in several years. There has been a deliberate prioritisation of the 18-year-old extension of child welfare, which is a very good and desirable reform, not least given that the spending of families with children is highest during the period they have teenagers. It's not right, as many have claimed, that the start-up phase has been completed. Very many still labor with, among other things. large capital costs after the purchase of a dwelling. Therefore, enlargement is an important family reform. This is a priority, and we cannot get everything at once. It should not at least agree on the right. Then I cannot help but wonder about the unanimous conduct of the Right Party in this debate. Family policy has many elements. That's why we also have to be able to see both the width and the length. In that case, both the extension of the cash support should be NOK 3000 per person. the month up to the age of three years, the increased support to the kindergartens in the budget, both in the form of increased support for operation and incentive grants for the construction of multiple kindergartens, and also increased allocations for family protection. Of course, it's easy to sit on the sideline and criticise. It's probably easier then to add a few million extras here and there. It's not that easy when you're going to take responsibility for the whole of the economy. But the main thing is that you get something else. And that's what the Christian People's Party has done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e1010	The Christian People's Party sees the need for government and greatness to pursue a family policy that facilitates safe and good growth and living conditions for children and young people. It is important to focus on conditions that initially create a stable and secure framework around the first years of life of children. It is important to make the grown-up generation more aware of its responsibilities in the family, in relation to its neighbours, etc., in order to ensure a safe and healthy growing-up environment. The Christian People's Party believes that funds on the state budget for parental guidance and co-operation are one of the preventive measures we need. We think this is work that should be able to give positive results. Otherwise, I refer you to the mention of this in the budget setting. The Committee believes that voluntary children's and youth organisations play an important role in providing a good breeding environment. The Christian People's Party will stress the importance of good cooperation between public and voluntary forces in work to safeguard and provide a good breeding environment. In addition, it is important to create dialogue with children and young people, so that they themselves can participate in the formulation of policies around their growing-up environment. Then go to the race. 856, kindergartens, with a brief mention of some measures. The budgetary agreement between the Government Party and the Workers' Party strengthens the operating support for kindergartens by 100 million. kr. We then refer to one of the points of the agreement that was concluded between the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party of the Committee. $95 million of this 100 million. kr shall be used to increase the set-aside rates for children under the age of three in kindergartens. As one is aware that many private kindergartens are struggling with the economy, we think that this increase in the operational capacity of small children's playgrounds can provide some help to private kindergartens that are without municipal support, because there are these places that have the highest operating costs per. a child. I'll briefly take 5 million. kr will be set aside for the extension of the free short-term trial to five-year-olds in Old Oslo, so that the offer would also include four-year-olds. We want to remind ourselves that this is an attempt that has said even evaluation. The Christian People's Party wants decisions and promises to be made within the Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs that have a positive impact on child and youth's growth and living conditions, and that will also contribute to the good living conditions of the great community.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e1025	First, I just want to make it clear that I very much agree with the Minister of Culture in her assessment of the resources allocated in the field of rhythmic music. I think the Minister of Culture's interpretation of this is in line with what the majority wrote when we agreed on this in ours. So over to the representative Lånke who said something about the fact that the right was one-sided in the debate. Then I want to reiterate that I think the representative Lånke must have listened with just one ear, because he now listed three areas that he thought were important and positive. In at least two of the three areas I mentioned in my post, namely that the cash support is now in place at NOK 3000 per person. months. I mentioned that in positive terms. Secondly, the representative talked about the kindergartens being important, and so did the representative Lunde who came after, but the conclusion was that they had managed to satisfy the private kindergartens with less than half of the 95 million. kr in increased operating grants. I don't think that's much to shout for. Then there was a question about the family protection offices. On the right, there are no problems in saying that we support the allocation proposed in that area, which could certainly be greater. But what is my main concern, and which has been my main concern in this debate, is to point it out a little rudely from the budget settlement majority that there would be so much better distribution policy. That was almost the reason for going straight into each other's arms in this budgetary agreement. Now you should find the right distribution policy, at the intersection between the centre and the Workers' Party, which Thorbjørn Jagland so many times pointed out. This allowed the Christian People's Party to drive itself willingly into. The result was that the families of children, who we thought were one of the groups to benefit from the distribution policy, were left with SEK 1.1 billion less after this budgetary agreement in relation to what could be achieved by cooperating, for example. with the Right. So you might say that it sounds like we think this is regrettable, and I actually think it is, because I thought that the Christian People's Party was prepared to continue the family policy line on which they had put themselves on, and not start to weaken the children's families' economy in this way, both through what is in the Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs' budget, and through the tax increases that directly affect families with children, for example. the electricity charge application, the fuel charge application, etc., etc. This is not a good family policy, and it is a poor distribution policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e1034	Now the representative of Greece and I agree that if the government parties had focused their cooperation on either the Advance Party or the Right, it would have become more of a family of children. I think we'll agree on that. Had we had a majority alone with the government parties, it would also have become more, even if they had gone in cooperation with the Right. We must agree on that too. But what the representative Lånke fails to say when he mentions the three elements that are the basis for the expansion of child welfare, is what I pointed out in my main post. It is a reality that extending child benefit to 18 years does not take place until 1 May, but the government parties change the child benefit rates from 1 January, and that is a direct intervention that costs approx. 400 million. kr. It must not be part of any agreement with the Progress Party or the Right, when we talk about extending child welfare to 18 years. Furthermore, I would be allowed to comment on some statements that have occurred earlier in the debate on the relationship between the Progress Party and trade unions, that we should have a hostile relationship with the trade unions. I will strongly reject that. What we point out in relation to the state's dealings with its employees concerns direct special arrangements. Take this with a mortgage. We see that the need for government employees for housing loans has increased considerably, because interest rates have been increasing for a year and a half. This is a special scheme for government employees receiving cheap mortgages. The Progress Party does not want such selective arrangements for groupings, whether in the case of government employees or whatever, because this costs money over the State budget. As far as waiting pay is concerned, it seems strange to me that the Labour Party and the government parties do not realise that the need for waiting pay must be reduced according to the labour market situation of the last two years. It is clear that there is a need for labour – why should we not make greater demands on people who are employed in the state, when it comes to rationalisation, redundancies, etc., that they should also be mobile? It is therefore a clear special arrangement for people who are employed in the state, which we in the Progress Party believe is completely unnecessary. Finally, I would like to make a comment to the representative of Greece. I don't know what majority comment he made on rock instead, but at least it's quite clear that the Right is not involved in the majority comments, and then I'll reserve the right to interpret my own comments myself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e1047	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1269]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e1061	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administration, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e1068	St. Prop. No 5 for 1999-2000 on the extension of the New Rikshospital cost framework — increase in allocations for 1999 — has a long period of speed if we want to look at the entire history of the new Rikshospital. The last is the decision of St.prp. No 37 for 1998-1999 and revised national budget for 1999 with extensions to the cost framework for the New Rikshospital prospectus. St. pp. No 37 led to an extension of 590 million. kr and revised national budget 145 million. kr. It was also an accident in the lighthouse on 23 February 1999 which delayed the completion of the main project until 1 June 1999. Problems with the plumbing systems mean that a new date for main migration will be moved to 1 July 2000. It turns out that the level of errors and deficiencies is more extensive and therefore also entails additional costs than previous risk analyses show. This is due to the complexity, size and high pressure of the project on propulsion, due, for example, to: extensions. This has led to quality defects in design, execution and control. Most of the work in the final phase is difficult to price, as it has been necessary to do much of the work on the bill, which in turn has reduced efficiency. Part of the additional costs are due to quality defects in the design and in the execution/verification of contractors and consultant/construction management. Claims are assessed. Total current cost framework of the project New Rikshospital following decision of the Storting of Innst. S. No 236 for 1998-1999 is 5,336 million. kr. In addition to the summer of 1999, additional conditions were identified that would impose additional costs on the project. The expected final cost of the project therefore needs to be extended by a further 235 million. SEK plus 36,7 million. kr for the project to be completed in accordance with the functional requirements. Proposals are made for an increase of 150 million in the appropriations for the project. 1999 kr. Decisions on the framework extension and increased appropriations in 1999 are necessary to enable the operation of the process until the hospital to take place without further delay. With regard to the Committee's comments, I refer only to the comments from both the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV, but finally allow me to spend some time on the joint comment from the Advance Party and the Right. These lots indicate that already in the Innst. S. No 308 for 1987-1988 and in Innst. S. No 215 for 1991-1992, Construction of the New Rikshospital, these lots expressed great scepticism that the department reduced bed capacity in line with the recommendations made by the professional user board. It turns out that this was justified and that part of the exceedance/problems is therefore the responsibility of Stortingen. However, this should not remove the search light from the role of State Building in this construction project — a project of such size and scope that State Buildings are unlikely to have competence to assume it. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e1087	I will not comment on any assessment of the responsibilities relating to this case. We'll get back to that. But it would have been striking if the matter passed Stortinget as if nothing had happened. After all, it's all about an increase in the cost framework of hundreds of millions of dollars. Even though many of us were afraid when we set a new cost cap before the holiday, and the fear that we would get the matter another time for treatment, we still probably believed that the department had the situation pretty much under control. Six months later, unfortunately, we have to state that the department could not have had the expected direction with development. There have already been large and powerful expressions in this case. I'm not going to come up with any new ones. But I have a great deal of understanding that both outside and within this house there is talk of scandals, and that no matter where responsibility for the seventh and last must be placed. The government is now proposing a new roof, including 105 million. as a reserve. Such a large reserve indicates that the uncertainty is still very high. I find it appropriate, like the rapporteur, to point out that not all the supplementary appropriations represent what we normally call exceedances. It's important to be clear. There are a lot of reasons for the increased costs according to the landfill proposal, and we are not going to set up a smith. I have noticed that the Council of State itself has taken the initiative to review the entire construction process. However, I find it difficult to see that such a review can correct the impression that has been created of a very poor follow-up both by State Building and by the Department, and that will not at all reduce costs. As the case now stands, everyone must contribute to the completion of the project as soon as possible. I sincerely hope that relocation can happen as the department says in the proposition, but I honestly don't feel quite sure about it. It is the responsibility of the Government to follow this up. When the committee does not deal more closely with the matter than it has done in the vote this time, it is because, in the context of the Riksrevision report, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee will review the whole matter and place responsibility where responsibility should be heard at home.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e1104	The rapporteur, Mr Bredvold, and now the representative of Mr Breimo, have presented the Committee's work on St.prp. No 5, on the extension of the New Rikshospital cost framework — increase in the 1999 allocation. The majority of the Committee, of which the Christian People's Party is a part, does not see this debate as the right opportunity to address the cause of the cost increase of New Rikshospital. We will come back to this on a later occasion, and in this context I just want to refer to our comments in the setting. But then Gunnar Breimo has made a visit to the Ministry's handling of this matter, and then aims for the enlargement that took place in the spring of 1999. When he first anticipates the discussion that will come later, I must also be allowed to recall that this matter has a fairly long history that includes more than one government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e1111	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1305]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e1125	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1305]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e1139	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1306]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e1153	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1307]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e1167	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1307]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e1181	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1307]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e1195	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1309]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e1209	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1307]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e1223	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1308]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e1232	Before we start voting, the President will remember that the regulatory time is immediately over, and the President proposes that this meeting be extended until today's map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e1239	A total of 11 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 6, by Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 2, 4, 7-11, by Mr Ågot Valle, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposals Nos. 3 and 5, from Per Roar Bredvold on behalf of the Advance Party. The President will first deal with framework-independent minority proposals and then vote on the framework areas 1, 2 and 3 and related minority proposals. – This is deemed to be adopted. We start with five framework independent proposals from the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to follow closely the developments in the field of child protection and to contribute to the implementation of measures to ensure compliance with legal requirements regarding time limits and quality.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Council asks the Government to draw up a stepping-up plan to increase the allocations for art and culture — Framework Area 3 — to at least 1 pst. by the State budget by 2005.’.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up its own essayistic purchasing system.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Council asks the Government to review the reorganization of the dissemination of Norwegian art and culture abroad.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the scheme for the decoration of state buildings by incorporating the current category 3 into category 4 where 1 pst. of the construction costs shall be used for decoration.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e1288	We're going to area one. There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e3242	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e7096	Here the Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e7107	We've come to area two. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 4, from SV. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e8411	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e10865	Here the Right has announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e10876	That's when we've reached Framework 3. Proposal No. 6, from the Right, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e12469	President! I did not get what proposal we were going to vote on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e12476	We can do it one more time. We are voting on proposal No. 6, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e12487	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e15682	The President noted that in the course of the debate a correction was made under the last sentence of VII. the last sentence is replaced by the following: – The Ministry of Culture disposes of funds from cap. 320, 321, 322, 323, 324 and 326 of these measures for the period until the transfer takes place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e16625	The proposal of the representative of Per Roar Bredvold, on behalf of the Progress Party, was put forward by the Odelstinget meeting on 30 November 1999. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote the cause of the Stortinget with a plan for the prompt privatisation of the NRK’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e16643	The proposal of the representative of Per Roar Bredvold, on behalf of the Progress Party, was put forward by the Odelstinget meeting on 30 November 1999. The proposal sounds. ‘The Government asks the Government to sue the Storting with a plan to abolish the broadcasting fee during a three-year period’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e16662	The proposal is submitted by the meeting of the Odel Stingen on 30 November 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-13-2.ana.ud2194e16684	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 30 November 1999: ‘The decision asks the Government not to exempt local radio transmission time during the concession period, with the exception of exceptional cases’
