ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e44	The representatives Grete Knudsen, Leif Helge Kongshaug, Haakon Blankenborg, Brother Yngve Rahm, Morten Lund and Siri Frost Sterri, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative of Ingvald Godal shall apply for leave on 10 and 11 June to attend a meeting of the Defence Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western European Union in Paris. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Gunn Marit Helgesen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e85	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament on Thursday and Friday – and will consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e90	I suggest Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e95	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is unanimously elected president of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings. The representative Mr Børge Brende has asked for the floor to withdraw a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e100	On behalf of the representative Christopher Stensaker and myself, I draw the proposal that the Minister for the Environment should waive the requirement for the municipality of Trondheim to build chemical sewage treatment plants at Hövringen, because yesterday she had a press conference in which she explained that, after we made the proposal, the department has drawn up an order.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e105	The representative, Mr Børge Brende's announcement that these proposals have now been withdrawn, is taken into account. At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1, 2 and 3 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e137	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 60 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to the exchange of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers for each group of parties and after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e148	Today, the size has three issues of major importance for the telecommunications sector and the Norwegian community in general. The representative, Inge Myrvoll, has put forward proposals to separate Telenor's network into a separate company, to decide on the merger of Telia and Telenor, and we are going to deal with the notification of regulatory issues in the telecommunications sector. Regardless of the parties' position on the various issues, I am pleased to note that a unanimous committee concludes on the telecommunications policy objectives. The main objectives of telecommunications policy are to ensure that all households and businesses across the country have access to high-quality basic telecommunications services at the lowest possible prices, and to facilitate the maximum possible value creation and efficient use of resources used for the development and provision of services in the sector. In Document No: 8:42 for 1998-99, the SV supports proposals for the separation of Telenor’s network and for the establishment of its own State-owned network company. The majority, consisting of the Right Party, the Labour Party and the Centre Parties, reject the proposal. Reasons are given on the basis of a letter of reply from the Ministry of Transport, where it states: ‘The production of these services is to a large extent integrated into the network infrastructure, while both infrastructure and service production are subject to very rapid technological developments.’ The majority will also indicate that no other EEA country that has fully or partially privatised State telecommunications companies has separated the network part as a separate company. The Progress Party has its own proposal to separate Telenor's network from its own company. I'm assuming that the minority itself justifies its positions. In St. prp. No 58 for 1998-99 the Government proposes to merge Telenor AS and Telia AB. A comprehensive committee, with the exception of SV, supports the merger of Telia and Telenor with subsequent sub-privatisation and stock market introduction. International strategic positioning and restructuring in the industry are now under way. Regional and global alliances are formed and companies are merged or purchased and strategic ownership positions are purchased. The merger means that significant synergies can be drawn that provide the basis for lower telecommunications prices. The merged company also has opportunities to play an important industrial role in Scandinavia. Three basic principles form the basis for the aggregation of Telia and Telenor: The parties shall have equal influence.The company shall be sub-privatised and listed.The company shall have a commercial and commercial device. The Norwegian and Swedish States shall own 40 and 60 psts respectively after the merger of Telenor and Telia. by the merged company. In order to ensure the provision of basic telecommunications services to all households and businesses throughout the country, Telenor is subject to nationwide obligations under concession conditions. These requirements will be continued in the concession for the new company. The maximum price scheme for voice telephony and leased lines will also be continued. Furthermore, it is an overall goal to create maximum values for the owner. The new company must be introduced as soon as possible and no later than the end of 2000. The Norwegian and Swedish owners shall sell down to the equal holding of 33,4 p.m. within 18 months of the date of the stock exchange introduction. The two countries have concluded an agreement of 16 years that the State holding shall not be less than 51 pst. The two countries can sell down to 25.5 pst. Each. In the case of an issue to the company, none of the two States is obliged to maintain their holdings, but they must be able to purchase shares in such a way that their state ownership remains at 51 p.m. None of the countries can be forced to maintain their ownership of the merged company and it is fully possible to fully privatise the company. Under the shareholder agreement, no investor/investor group shall be able to acquire more than 3 pst. of the shares in the State sales. Such restrictions will reduce the company's ability to conclude alliances and mergers. The right has objections to a time limit for government ownership for 16 years. With the dynamics of the industry, such a bond is unwise. The global restructuring may lead to the merging company concluding alliances with cross-ownerships or mergers with other companies. Maintaining a State holding would then prove impossible and not appropriate. The increased internationalisation may result in higher risk exposure to State capital. It warrants a state withdrawal from the company. It is not, in the opinion of the Right, a State task to be a shareholder in telecommunications companies and the State should liquidate its ownership of the merged company as soon as it is commercially advantageous. This will be consistent with developments taking place internationally. In the case of stock exchange quotations, price developments will be an important signal and will put an increased and sustained pressure on the company to take the decisions that best serve the value creation. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Left, have pointed out in the vote the tax disadvantages that the Ministry presents to Norwegian shareholders of the merged company and will ask the Government to assess what can be done to avoid these problems. In St.meld. No 24 for 1998-99, On some regulatory issues in the telecommunications sector, the Government presents the situation on the telecommunications market and what measures it believes would strengthen competition in the Norwegian telecommunications market. The telecommunications sector is undergoing major changes, technological developments are moving rapidly, boundaries between different technologies are disappearing, and technologies are merging. Markets are liberalised and globalised, leading to the privatisation of state telecommunications companies and mergers that create major players with a global arena. Norwegian participation in international trade agreements has led to the liberalisation of the Norwegian telecommunications market and is part of a globalised market. In the opinion of the Right, this has been positive for Norway and has contributed to better and cheaper services for households and enterprises across the country. The abolition of exclusive rights in the telecommunications sector and the forthcoming sub-privatisation have led to concessions and legislation being the future governance tools of telecommunications policy. It includes such matters as universal service obligations in District Norway, the maximum price scheme and the financing of unprofitable services. State ownership is no longer suitable as a management tool. I am pleased that a unanimous committee has underlined the importance of the whole country meeting its needs for broadband services as technological developments and the expected increase in demand for this type of service in the coming years. This is very important for business, and it is an important prerequisite for keeping businesses and residents in District Norway. The Ministry’s assessment is that there is no need for specific measures to achieve a nationwide offer for broadband services on the transport network. Telecommunications operators are expected to be able to offer the necessary capacity across the country and on a commercial basis. The Workers' Party and SV are in favour of imposing on the new company universal service obligations for broadband services at maximum prices, even if this is contrary to the EEA Agreement. It is important to facilitate the expansion of the IT industries. It requires an increased focus on research and development and that we have competitive framework conditions. Finland has already distributed licences for the next generation of high-speed mobile systems. The telecommunications authorities in Norway indicate that such licences are rarely granted before 2001. The right, the Progress Party, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left are concerned that this will hamper the competitiveness of both the telecommunications industry and telecommunications operators in Norway, and that the introduction of new and forward-looking telecommunications services across the country may be delayed. The government says in St. Report. No 24 that the development of the competitive market is satisfactory. According to the Right, competition is weak in several segments of the telecommunications market. This is worrying, because it leads to Norwegian households and businesses receiving more expensive services than they would have had more competition. The right is concerned about the role conflict in which the Ministry of Transport is involved in promoting measures to promote competition. At the same time as the Ministry has overall responsibility for ensuring that companies and households receive good services at low prices through competition in the telecommunications market, the Ministry manages the state ownership of Telenor. It is important that ownership and regulatory authorities do not remain in the same department in the future. In the telecommunications sector, there is competition in the service sector and in the transport network. Telenors are dominant in these markets and there is a need for stronger competition. On a fixed-line basis, Telenor has continued to operate as a monopoly. Telenor has increased subscription prices in the last two years. The right notes that Telenor has now rebalanced subscription prices and assumes that this will be reflected in future price developments. A unanimous committee is now in favour of opening up the access network to other actors in order to establish competition in this market segment. The so-called ‘fixed access’ proposal is a solution for access to the access network with which industry actors are satisfied. The introduction of free access to the local loop should be as soon as possible after the introduction of fixed operator preferences and number portability, which shall take place from 1 June 1999. The merger will require the conduct of a more active competition policy by the Norwegian authorities. The right is disappointed that the weakening of competition in the telecommunications market that the merger will lead to has little attention from the Government. The Competition Authority has recommended that the merged company sell Telia’s activities in Norway. The right-hand side shares the view of the Competition Authority and presupposes that the Competition Authority’s recommendations are followed. The reason for the lack of competition is partly regulatory. Several regulatory issues affecting competition have not been discussed in the Communication. The right misses, among other things: a discussion of the principles for the calculation of the rental prices of Telenor’s network in St. meld. No 24th@item: The network is largely built up in a monopoly situation where the company was protected from competition, and therefore objections to the so-called historic prices for the rental of networks can be raised. Another model for the calculation of networks may be based on the actual operating costs as well as the investment costs of the deployment of the network of new services. Regardless of the calculation model for network rental, the control of the price structure needs to be improved. The right has therefore asked the Government to remove six anti-competitive aspects. I'll briefly mention four of them: 1. provide other actors with the same right of way as Telenor now has 2. open mobile networks for other actors in the same way as the terrestrial network 3. consider introducing upgrade costs instead of historical costs for the calculation of network rental 4. place exercise of State telecommunications management and government ownership of telecommunications companies in different departments. I expect the Government to come back with proposals that, unlike St. Announcement. No 24, does not bear the mark that the Government has a bride to be adorned. Finally, I would like to take up the minority motions of the Right and the Advance Party in the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e255	Ellen Gjerpe Hansen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e260	The right has normally been a technology-friendly party. If the government's legislation does not provide the necessary opening up for new technologies, investments will seek where the legislation is more forward-looking. The working party is concerned that we may be in the process of falling back on technological developments. We therefore ask in the vote that the Government make a rapid adjustment of the regulatory regime – it is a note that the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party are united. But I have to admit that it surprises me, and it surprises me quite significantly, that the Right would not participate in such a request. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e267	It is quite right, as the Workers' Party has perceived, that the Right is technology-friendly, concerned with development and occupied with the future. We are concerned that regulation – telecommunications regulation and regulation in general – should not hinder development and progress. That is why we are concerned, not to say that we react intuitively, when the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left stress that ‘regulation is an important competitive factor in telecommunications’. We do not see SV as just progress-friendly in this area – on the contrary, from SV's point of view, regulation should be limited to government governance and state activities. So here, the Labour Party has joined the Socialist Left Party, and, as I said, in traditional terms, we are very skeptical. Now I hear that the Workers' Party is concerned with development. Let's hope that now they have – I had almost said – made sense, and that they come after. We've been saying it for a long time: if the Workers' Party comes after, we're happy, then we're going to look together at what can be done. But it surprises me that the Workers' Party cannot then participate in the assessments that the Right has made in these six points, just to look at the telecommunications regulatory provisions that we see as hindering technological development.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e274	It is true, as the rapporteur here stresses, that there is quite a consensus on all the essential points in these three issues that we have to deal with here today. But there are also some dividing lines between the Right and the Center parties, and what I have noticed in particular, including in the post, is Right's strong commitment to the market and free competition and – not least – active competition. Now it's the way that active competition only works where there's something to compete about, and for District Norway, we know that it's very quickly done for the districts to be put on an unprofitable stamp, because where there's nothing to compete about, competition has lost its advantages in many ways. And I want to challenge it a little bit in relation to Telenor and the strong focus on the Norwegian state being on the track here all the time and making sure that you maintain an increasingly active competition, a competition that, after all, puts an unprofitable stamp on many parts of this country. Does the Right have any relation to it? Furthermore, the right has also landed on the fact that they will oblige Telenor to rent out the lines to the customer, the so-called LLUB. Does the Right not see that such a imposition can reduce the desire of companies to invest in the grid?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e283	The competition we have received in the telecommunications market has given a better offer and lower prices to the whole of Norway. It's not like the Christian People's Party now suggests, that District Norway is a loss-making, and that it's not interesting to expand there as well. We have seen that competition has worked. But it may be that in some districts of our country we do not get sufficient commercial expansion, and then the Right has also said that if we get into such a situation, we have to consider imposing on companies through concession conditions to expand, and then we also say we are willing to pay for the services that District Norway does not get on a purely commercial basis. That has been clearly stated in the position, and I believe that the Christian People's Party here is speaking against better knowledge if they give us the opinion that there is a pure market mechanism to work, without taking into account, as we have said with regard to the objective, that the whole country should receive a satisfactory offer and that we can use all services in this country. We have agreed with the Christian People's Party on this in our statements.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e290	It's a little sad that in the previous telecommunications debate in Stortingen of some size we got a lot of praise from Right precisely because we looked forward and were looking for the solutions, while Right this time has found its prejudiced reality and said that SV is in a way frightened by the technological development and fear of the future. Far from it, we only find the means to approach the future in a socially good way. On the right, on the other hand, they live in their prejudiced, ideological world. When we read their comments, we can see that they believe it is liberalisation that has led to good offers and reduced prices, they write several times. Then I wonder how the Right can explain that a 10-minute payphone from Oslo to Hammerfest cost 22.30 in 1990, in 1995 – before the deregulation was in place – cost 7.40. So the price has been reduced to a third party. When it was not the market mechanism that worked, how was it possible from the comments made by the Right? I believe that the Right should recognise that this is not just about the market; it is essentially about a technological development that took us a long time before the deregulation, they should try to see that there are more here than questions of competition. And then we get to the part that's problematic about the future. The right is saying that the whole country is going to get this, that one is going to try to make services and prices beneficial, and then we know that the market doesn't work like that. But then it's that the Right comes back and says that if this gets completely turbulent once in the future, we're going to consider going into action. Isn't the Right willing to lie in front of us and say that we have to make the premise so that the whole country can take part in the goods, both the quality and the price of future services?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e297	I don't think there can be any doubt that deregulation and competition have provided better and cheaper services to subscribers and users in Norway. And then I'm willing to admit that technological development has contributed. We're happy about that, and we hope it keeps going. It is important for the Right to facilitate conditions so that both technological development and competition in the market can stimulate further better supply and cheaper services for users in that country. Then I have to say to SV that I am surprised that state owned network, state owned Telenor, state controlled development, no to merger, and no to private interests are forward-looking. I'm recording that the Workers' Party has turned around. At their budgeting last year, they went against privatisation and stock market introduction, now they go along. I record that there is only SV left in this room that still has an inherent belief in government governance – perhaps with the exception of some failure steps in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e305	The representative of the lot Right drove in the post to the point of running a good old right-legging: only there will be enough competition, more competition than today, everything will be so much better. However, leaving the whole responsibility for access to high-quality telecommunications at a low price to the market alone has, at the same time, been the responsibility of the political team to ensure that such access also applies in the districts, which will affect businesses in the districts of Norway. In the linecode exchange now, the Right has opened up so that you might be able to participate, for example, in the future. imposing universal service obligations. But already today the business community in North Norway, for example. in the banking sector, transactions are too slow because the capacity is too small. As late as yesterday, I received a letter from the Nord Nutrition Forum, which consists of the NHO and LO in the three Northern Norwegian states, where they, among others, are. writes: ‘The Nord Business Forum sees the further development of telecommunications with broadband networks, etc. in all parts of the country as a decisive competitive factor and necessary infrastructure for both private and public administration.» My question to the Right Party is whether the main figure in these questions can well explain in a pedagogical way why the Right will provisionally leave the whole job to the market and not use the opportunities we actually have to secure the business of the districts they themselves refer to as ‘a decisive competitive factor and necessary infrastructure’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e319	The fact that we have repeated our old message of competition and the importance of competition for the market offer is quite correct. We're actually going to keep doing it too, because it turns out it's working. We're busy with the users in the market. We are more concerned with the users than with Telenor and state management of Telenor. It is not even in the future that we are going to use instruments if it turns out that the market is not building up enough capacity and sufficient networks for the whole country to use IT technology. Together with the government parties, we point to maximum prices and universal service as instruments, but we are committed to the fact that the expansion that is taking place today on a commercial basis is currently sufficient to meet the need. We have also said that we assume that the Government will come back to the Stortinget with new proposals if the expansion plans that exist and the expansions that the market is making do not meet the need. Then we'll immediately ask the government to come back, and we'll help the whole country make use of the technology. But per year. Today it does not seem to be necessary. The government has made that clear, so we're taking this to heart. But we have stressed that this needs to be monitored – not by the state building up and ruling, but by the state taking responsibility for its expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e328	It is not so bad that the Right now so far acknowledged that we also under the regime of the management company Televerket, after each Telenor AS, during their monopoly period, had a dramatic fall in prices and a great improvement in services in the country. I think it's a good confession. So at least we agree that it's not just the market and competition that have led the Norwegian people to have some of the best and cheapest telecommunications services in Europe. It has actually contributed to Telenor and the old Telecom in a monopoly situation. The point for me is not that the state should have this market, but that we also have one State actor in a market where SV has been involved in the abolition of the exclusive right. We say, however, that we want one state actor, that we can use ownership as one of the instruments. That doesn't mean they're alone in the market they're in hard competition. As far as infrastructure is concerned, I think that the right general view is that infrastructure is a state task, and then you can discuss how wise it is to separate the telecommunications network. In fact, a number of actors within the telecommunications sector believe that it would be a wise solution that we had a telecommunications network that everyone had the same access to. Doesn't the Right at all think that's an interesting thought? The second question is this with the establishment of a fund for the balancing of prices. If the Right believes that the whole country is going to join, why is the Right so reluctant that all actors should participate in such a split layer, so that it does not just become the big player who should have the imposed? If there is to be a level playing field in a competitive situation, all actors should have their obligations. Or does Right think that it is only Telenor, and then, if so, the new company Telenordia, Telianor or what it is, that should have that commitment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e339	I feel that I am beginning to repeat myself, but that may be necessary! Thus, the services of the inhabitants of this country are important. It is not who offers them, which is important, but the services and pricing. In our time, we were all in line for a phone call. Developments have progressed. Telenor has also evolved. It is such that competition in a market improves supply and offers more opportunities. The right continues to want to facilitate optimum competition in these service areas as well as maximum freedom of choice for users. Norway is a long-distance country. We have our outposts and outboards, and we have a common view that in terms of these telecommunications services, the whole country should have equal offers, as much as possible equivalent offers. If it turns out that this despised market does not meet those needs, then right is the first one to say that we have to go in and see what we can do as a telecommunications regulatory authority in order for this offer to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e348	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e351	We're on our way into a new era. We're in a new era. Who would have thought 15 years ago that it would be possible to type four numbers into a house wall, and then there would be money out of your bank account? Who would have thought that everything we needed to shop in the store was a plastic card? Who would have thought that we should be able to sit by a video camera in different places around the world and be connected in a common meeting where we both see and hear each other? Who would have thought that we could be available anywhere just with a little cell phone in my pocket? Who would have thought ten years ago that we would be able to sit at night time at a computer in the living room and decide that the electricity bill should be paid to a particular account and on a certain day? Or that we could sit at the PC and order clothes from the United States, books from England, pick up food recipes from someone we don't know in France, order holiday homes in Spain and talk to someone we don't know in Australia? And who would believe that this can now also be done via mobile phone? Who would have thought five years ago that a company could have employees in different places around the world connected through telelines, where employees work together, talk together, solve tasks together and act as a unit? In Alta, offices are now to be set up where there are many jobs in different companies around Norway, but where they sit together in an office community with others who work the same way, so that they sit together and not alone. Who would have thought that you could connect on the same screen written information, advanced technical presentations and images where those who talk see each other? Or that a doctor in Tromsø would be able to investigate through two-way audio/image contact a patient at the hospital in Kirkenes? And who today will think that we'll get thinking houses that we can tell how we want everyday, where we'll be welcomed by our favorite music when we get into the house, where the potatoes turn on when we get in, where the light turns on and off when we go into and out of the room? And who would think that in a short time we could put together our own television program, where we'll be at noon. 8:30 p.m. see what we want to see from today's replay, and at 8:30 p.m. 20.50 sees the farm day's football game? Not to talk about this: think that somewhere in the world is a person who needs immediate surgery. On site there is no available surgeon with the necessary expertise. But the local health center has a robot that has the necessary surgical instruments. A completely different place in the world is a surgeon who is ready to operate. He wears his special three-dimensional glasses, where he sees patients and operating rooms through teletransfer, and he has sensors on his fingers, possibly special electronic gloves. All the movements the surgeon does where he had to sit, for example. at home in its own living room, transmitted by the sensors to the robot, and by repeating the surgeon's professional movements, the robot operates the patient, possibly with the assistance of local personnel instructed by the surgeon via the screen. And you can even imagine that such specialized competence is available in different places on the globe depending on the time of day. If it gets really late, it could be a New Zealandian who's been guarding. The unreal has become real. The impossible has become possible, and is becoming more and more possible. And not enough with that: what we thought was impossible, has become or is going to become common, not just for techno-drakes, not just for the rich, but for the many. Human life has changed. Society's changed. Yes, society is changing. Change becomes common – ever change. Evolution is ahead of most of us, and progress is fast. When the radio was invented, it took 38 years for it to reach 50 million users. When the TV came, it took 13 years, because the Internet took 4 years! Nicholas Negroponte, who leads the media laboratory at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is considered one of the foremost to describe the effects of the information revolution. He says that the changes follow an exponential pattern. Small differences from yesterday can be huge tomorrow. If we, for example, works in January with one penny in salary on the first day, and with a doubling of the salary every new day, we will have a daily salary of more than 10 million at the end of January. kr. What is even more difficult to understand is that if we had worked in February instead of in January, we would only reach 1.3 million. kr since that month is three days shorter. In such a pattern of development, the last three days mean a lot. And the Negropontes point is that we are approaching these three days in the development of computer technology and digital telecommunications. The number of Internet users has a time increased by 10 pst. in the month. As politicians, we should not mean anything about all the technological changes. But we have to deal with the consequences of the technological changes. We need to know how we're going to meet a new reality, and not act like reality was another. The Labour Party wants Norway to be at the forefront of technological development, and we want everyone to take part in development. We want to use the technological innovations to improve human well-being. We want to increase the freedom of people. We will use the technology to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. We want to use the technology to reduce distances, to reduce the distance constraints that not least District Norway has always worn. Norway must then be in the forefront of development. The State Secretary Committee of the Labour Party Government for IT decided that Norway should be primarily international in the use of information technology to increase value creation. It concerns both the public sector, the private sector and their interaction. Our wealth will increasingly depend on our ability to create and produce the content of the information society's products and services, along with our ability to exploit information technology to develop existing industries and products. But if we're going to achieve these goals, we also have to be conscious of the dangers. The new technology can increase the freedom of those who control it and have access to it, but there is also a danger that many do not control it and that many do not have access to it. Similarly, it's going to be in the business world. The areas of business that benefit from technology can strengthen their competitiveness. But what about those who are aliens for this development? And what about the districts? The new technology can be used to decentralise work and to carry out tasks far away from the large population centres. But it can also be used to collect the processing of large amounts of information in the centre. And the ability of districts to apply technology depends on districts having access to the same technological possibilities as the central ones. In short, we need to guard ourselves against the two-part society, whether it is knowledge, social or geographical. Therefore, the Workers' Party will ensure all knowledge of the information and communication technology. We want to refresh the data training in school. Anyone who wants to do so will have knowledge of the use of IT. That is why we want to ensure all access to the machines. We want to stimulate the purchase of computers in primary school. We want to upgrade the public libraries to become information banks for everyone in the community. That's why we want to secure user control. User-side cable management shall be ensured so that owners are given real opportunities to negotiate supplies for which they are required to use the network capacity, to require tenders and to avoid unnecessary parallel interconnection in residential areas. Therefore, the Workers' Party will ensure all equivalent access to the network connecting machines and information. The Labour Party believes that all households and businesses throughout the country should be guaranteed the possibility of connecting to a telecommunications network, to a telecommunications network with sufficient capacity to make use of ever-new possibilities for electronic communications. In short, everyone must be able to connect to a high-speed network. They don't have it today. Therefore, last year the Workers' Party, together with the Right and SV, put forward a proposal that the Government should submit a plan for the forced development of the network. The proposal was adopted by the Stortinget. The more surprising it is that the Government now announces that it sees no need for any state intervention for forced development. In the view of the Government, the telecommunications market operators are able to offer the necessary capacity on a commercial basis. Interestingly, the centre parties, which have given so much attention to social governance, are now saying that the market itself is on a business-economic basis to ensure an equivalent telecommunications network. Not least, it is interesting because the Declaration of Adults just criticises the over-emphasis on business economy in postal and telecommunications policy – without any political change. However, the main thing is the conclusion of politics. Let me underline: the working party is proud of Telenor. We are proud that in Norway we have been able to build a state telecommunications company that has been the world's leading provider of technological development. We also have faith in Telenor's plans for the development of the network, which aim at a gradual expansion of capacity through investments of billions of dollars in the years ahead. We have also noticed that other actors are now developing offers in the web. Nevertheless, we all have to recognise that it is Telenor’s network and Telenor’s plans for the development of the network, which are crucial for the extent to which the offer is being developed. But it's plans! Today, the Stortinget will agree to merge Telenor and Telia into a new company. At the latest by the end of 2000, the Norwegian State’s ownership shall be reduced to 33,4 p.m., and then our question is: What is the security of the Central Party and the Christian People’s Party for the future owners of Telenor/Telia to stand by and implement the plans? We hope so. We think so. We believe it is in the company's own interest to develop the market, but what guarantee do the centre parties have for future expansion? And what guarantee do they have for the extent of the expansion? Even today, these plans do not cover 100 pst. of the country. This lack of security must at the same time be balanced against the social importance of ensuring such an offer throughout the country. We've seen how evolution shoots speed. But the mini-bank machines and banking terminals need to be connected to the parent bank through networks. Video conferencing needs to be configured through networks. Telex commuting must be connected through networks. Telemedicine depends on networks. And a lot of information needs to move quickly. It doesn't work with a phone line or two. The network must have a high speed. And if it's not available, the offer is getting worse or even completely inadequate. Then the freedom of choice weakens. The competitiveness won't get any better. The distance won't get smaller, it'll feel longer. The Labour Party therefore believes that we need a clearer social commitment, clearer social governance, to ensure that all households and businesses across the country have access to the new opportunities. The Labour Party therefore believes that we need to introduce universal service obligations through the terms of the concession to network operators with significant market power. And we believe that the offer must be given at prices that are as similar as possible in all parts of the country. That is why we believe that a system of maximum prices should also be introduced for high-speed services. It surprises me that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, who so strongly want to present themselves as district friendly, do not go in to introduce universal service and minimum price, should be the maximum price, according to Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, and that the Right will not use governance in an area that we know is so important to social development. Assessment of universal service is required, but the minimum price* is not mentioned in a word in the decision. One wants the objectives, but one does not want the means to ensure that the objectives are achieved. Or to say as director Arne-Wilhelm Theodorsen at the research foundation in Tromsø: ‘If the proposals of the majority of the population are adopted, we stand back with hope and faith, and then I fear that in the country’s fringes to the seventh and last, we are falling aft.’ But then the central government agrees that the capacity of the telecommunications network should be determined by the market – on a business-economic basis. So that's what they wanted to do with the government power! I take up the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV. Norway is well advanced in the use of new technologies. We have one of the world's most modern core networks. We have one of the lowest price levels in the world. We are at the forefront of the world in the spread of ISDN. We're number two in the cell phone field. We're number two in Europe on the Internet. Telenor is the number three in Europe in satellite communications and among the ten largest mobile telephone operators. With today's technology, we have a fairly equivalent telecommunications offer across our long-range and pig-grown country. When we're so far ahead, it's because what we call today Telenor has been a spearhead in development. The strong commitment of the Telecom to telecommunications from the 1970s was essential for Norway to be raised from one of the most backward telecommunications countries in Europe and up to one of the world’s leading telecommunications countries. But progress will continue. Huge resources are required to be so advanced in technological development. It's a big risk. At the same time, the built-in competence provides a basis for increased value creation by investing internationally. It requires not only knowledge but also capital. The market is changing – fast. Industries and technologies are collapsing. Speech, text, data and images can be transmitted digitally. The boundaries between telecommunications, data processing and the media are merging. Countries regulate their telecommunications markets. International competition is increasing. There is strong demand pressure, rapid changes, increasing competition and pressure on prices. The industry is being restructured. The big ones are getting bigger. Although Telenor is large in Norway, the company is a dwarf among the international giants. Both to meet the challenges here at home, and to be able to bet out, there will therefore be an advantage with stronger muscles than today. Like the Norwegian state company Telenor, the Swedish state company Telia is also at the forefront of the development and use of new services and technologies. In important areas, both companies are world-class. Merging these two neighbouring companies will provide a significantly stronger business base through the significant coordination gains both on the cost and income side. A merged company will have a size and competitiveness that will strengthen the basis for continuing to lead in technological development. It's an advantage for the customers. The main objectives of telecommunications policy are set. All households and businesses throughout the country must be guaranteed access to high-quality basic services and at the lowest possible prices. At the same time, telecommunications policy must facilitate business development and value creation in Norway. The Labour Party believes that these objectives can best be achieved by merging Telenor and Telia. We therefore agree with the agreement that has been reached and refer to the Committee's profound remarks. It was also based on our belief in the possibilities of such cooperation that we reacted so strongly when last year the government stopped the conversations between the two companies. So today's agreement, which is so highly acclaimed by the Government and the government parties, has come about despite the Government and not because of it. The Labour Party, with the role of Telenor so far, has not seen the need for a partial privatisation of Telenor. However, by choosing to invest the interests of the Norwegian and Swedish states into a new company, 100 pst will. ownership by the Norwegian State is no longer relevant. This means that the possibility of exercising ownership management is no longer present as before. At the same time, it must be noted that the social governance of the telecommunications sector in recent years has increasingly taken place through the general telecommunications and competition policy instruments. And on the basis of such an overall assessment, the Workers' Party will conclude that the new company is being privatised and listed. A significant Norwegian shareholder participation in the new company is desirable. The introduction of stock exchanges should be facilitated with a view to achieving such a goal. Furthermore, the Labour Party will ask the Government to consider how to reduce the costs of the stock exchange introduction of shareholders, while taking into account the valuation. Fees to the organizers of billions of dollars appear to be insane. Secondly, the Workers' Party considers that options should not be used for employees in the stock exchange introduction. No one knows the market value of the company. Therefore, the use of options in such a situation may give rise to unforeseeable and unintended gains. It would therefore be beneficial for the company’s own reputation if a waiter to use such instruments until the uncertainty has diminished. At the presentation of the new company, the group leader, Tormod Hermansen, said: ‘We are to create a Nordic flagship in the telecom and IT industries.’ And that must be precisely the ambition: that the new company should further develop itself as a leading provider of information and communication services in northern Europe and expand internationally, in order to become a leading global player in areas where the company has or can develop competitive advantages, such as mobile and satellite communications, the Internet and other services and applications based on the Internet protocol. On the part of the Workers' Party, we assume that provision is made to enable customers in the Norwegian market to continue to be offered telecommunications services that are among the best in the world in terms of products, prices and quality. We have to make sure that the offer reaches everyone. So, assuming that we're being taken care of by the concession terms. The aim must be to enable users in the Norwegian market to use relevant services earlier than those in other countries. There are two equivalent partners that are now merged. The merger and management of the new company must and must be based on equal influence by the parties. On the part of the Workers' Party, we note that it is not currently considered appropriate to clarify where all the management functions of the different business lines are to be located. However, it must be strongly emphasised that, throughout the merger process, there has been a fundamental pre-requisite that there should be a balance of activity between the two countries, a balance of influence, management and location. The first group leader comes from Norway, the first board leader from Sweden. The head office is added to Sweden, while the company’s international centre is added to Norway. There should be R & D activities in both countries. Therefore, when deciding on the location of the management functions, it is obvious that this must be done in a way that also ensures a balance between the parties. Nevertheless, it is not only the location of the different business centres that determines where and how further development is to take place. It is also essential to facilitate innovation and innovation. Norwegian education, research and development environments are well advanced internationally in a number of areas of information and communication technologies. Telemedical research and space research are important examples of this. Developing cooperation in education, research and development will be of mutual benefit to the new company and Norwegian competence environments. It is also important that we maintain and develop Norwegian competence in the relevant areas. The Norwegian Research Council’s strategy for Norwegian research highlights the information and communication technology industry as highly growth-intensive and competitive, with significant national value creation, employment and exports. Reference is made to the strong dependence of industry on R & D for further growth. The Research Council considers this to be a significant step forward in public investment, not least in the telecommunications sector. The Labour Party therefore considers it necessary to increase research efforts in information and communication technologies in Norway. From the Labour Party we see it as important that significant parts of R & D activities in the new company are added to Norway. It must also be an objective that the new company, the R & D environment and the telecommunications industry contribute to mutual development. The potential for growth in this area is high. In 1996, it was roughly estimated that it was about 900 enterprises with a turnover of about 80 billion kroner in this sector – some of them world leaders in their field. The new company will undoubtedly be at the heart of a Norwegian-Swedish information and telecommunications cluster with considerable weight. The company should also see it as a challenge to develop technological environments in the districts. The new technology carries opportunities for decentralisation of tasks. The company should also use the technology itself to locate activities outside the central struts. See what Nokia has contributed to the development of a Nordic Silicon Valley in Oulo, northern Finland. But there is also another crucial element: telecommunications legislation and telecommunications regulation. An important framework for the development of and investment in the telecommunications sector is the organisation of telecommunications market regulation to stimulate innovation, innovation and forward-looking investment in Norway. There is nothing to suggest that a long-haul and scattered country such as Norway should rise among the world’s leading telienations. The reason is that the Norwegian Telecom has focused on technology, research and development. Two conditions are now changing the situation. Firstly, increasing real competition is forcing a more active investment in technology also among other countries' main players. Secondly, new technologies are increasingly cost-effective for large volumes of traffic, which we naturally do not have. New measures are therefore necessary to enable Norway to continue to be at the forefront of the development and use of telecommunications. What we are now looking at in the traffic pattern, from mainly speech-based traffic to data and multimedia-based traffic, can give Norwegian technology-leading telecommunications operators the opportunity to develop again, to lie ahead. However, there is a problem that telecommunications regulation has mainly become stuck in relation to fixed and mobile telephony. This could be an obstacle to development. And it's blocking a country that's going to be the most advanced in putting new technology into practice. Telecommunications will therefore be an important framework for industrial development in the telecommunications sector. Lately opening up new technological solutions will also prevent early investment in new technologies, while regulation that is forward-looking and opens up to the latest in technology will allow investments and competences to seek out where new opportunities are put into effect. Therefore, telecommunications regulation itself becomes an important competitive factor between countries that want to attract forward-looking activities. The Labour Party is concerned that Norwegian telecommunications regulation does not provide the necessary incentive for technological development today. The Labour Party sees it as an objective for the Norwegian authorities to facilitate forward-looking telecommunications regulation and thereby stimulate telecommunications operators for innovation and investment in Norway. We therefore ask the Government to follow this up through the rapid adjustment of the regulatory regime. In this context, it is of course important that the management is constantly in line with future technological developments and has an active interaction with the actors. I will not hide that I am very surprised that the Workers' Party and SV in today's position have remained standing alone to ask the Government to make such a rapid adjustment of the regulation regime. The more happy it is that it is only the government parties that are not pointing out when it comes to using the next generation of mobile phones. Norwegian telecommunications development is a result of a commitment to the future before the future came. That's what we have to do now. We must have an ambition that Norway will be at the forefront of the world in the development and use of the new information and communication technology. And we have to have an ambition that everyone will have access to the new technological possibilities. The working party wants everyone who wants to know about the use of IT and access to the new communication tool. Then we also have to make sure that everyone has access to the new high-speed network that offers the possibilities. And we have to make sure that all households and businesses have access to services that are ahead of international development and at the lowest possible prices. That's what today's stuff is about. We should all wish Telenor happiness into a new future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e475	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e480	The representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen started his speech on the electronic society that we are now part of and dependent on. Does the representative think that this would have been possible with only state companies without competition, and that the Internet had become it, without private development? It is not public governance and regulation that has given us our electronic everyday life. Access to many electronic tools has been developed by private, private and also without regulation. As a radio amateur, I have access to several amateur satellites, which I can use freely, without it being under public control.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e487	The Labour Party believes in a creative and developing interaction between the public and private sectors. It is therefore true that the Norwegian telecommunications regulations have been regulated under the leadership of the Workers' Party and faster than has happened, for example. in the EU. But it is also true that when Norway has risen from being far down on the ladder in relation to telecommunications developments, to being in the first division, it is primarily related to the fact that there has been a forward-looking investment and a strong technological involvement in the Norwegian telecommunications network, which is 100 pst. State. We've also seen that we've had a development where we're at the forefront of the world using technology. It's happened with the Norwegian Telenor in the head, which is 100 pst. State. We have seen that Norway has received some of the world’s lowest prices in the telecommunications sector. Developments have also gone further in Norway than in other countries, and there are 100 pst. State Telenor has actually been at the forefront of this development. As far as the Internet is concerned, much of the foundation for it was laid in the public sector in the United States. I believe in many contexts that the public sector is very central to such development. But it is important that we have an interaction between public and private, where there is room for competition, and where there is room for creative solutions to future-oriented problems. But you can't pretend that all the challenges are solved just private ones. Because it is not that countries with private telecommunications have had a better development than we have had in Norway. It's not like they have lower prices than what we have in Norway. On the contrary, we actually have 100 pst. state ownership reached very far in the telecommunications field. Now we're coming over in a new era, and in the new era, we're open to a partial privatisation of Telenor. And we think it's suitable to carry on the tradition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e498	The representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, in my opinion, gave an excellent introduction in the future. He also stated that the last three days can also be very important in terms of future developments. I just have to say that the last three days of writing in the newspapers, and what has now been repeated by the representative here, in many ways has shocked the center parties. I quote from Finnmark Dagblad. After presenting the good proposals of the Workers' Party, he continues: ‘However, the majority in the United Kingdom are opposed to using such instruments. They will further assess these issues and will not take a stand.’ He's particularly disappointed at the center parts: ‘Instead of ensuring important societal objectives, the centre parties shall leave the market to steer development.’ This is, to put it mildly, a misleading representation of what the same batches have entered into. We have almost equivalent proposals. The only big difference I can see is that the Workers' Party wants to decide that we should be first in the world in terms of developments in the telecommunications sector. It is almost as if the Norwegian Football Association were going to decide that Norway would win the EM in football. As far as I can see, it is the job we are going to do in advance that will help us to be first in the world. I would like to ask some specific questions to the Workers' Party: Why would the Workers' Party oblige the Government to introduce instruments contrary to the EEA Regulation today? Why does the Workers' Party object to the employee being allowed to buy shares when the time comes? I will finally challenge Mr. Schjøtt-Pedersen to say something about what the real difference in the objective between the Workers' Party and the Centre parties is in terms of telecommunications policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e519	I understand that the representative Sahl and the representatives of the middle parties get a little upset when they see what they themselves have been in favour of or have not opted for in the setting. That's all there is to it! The working party will not break the EEA Agreement. But where is it clear that the proposals that are being promoted here are contrary to the EEA Agreement? Where is it clarified? It's not there. So the representative Sahl says it's wrong that there is some difference between the proposal from the government fraction and the right and the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV. Let me agree with Sahl that there is agreement on the objectives. But the point is that Sahl and his party traps and colleagues from the government parties and the Right will not use the instruments necessary to achieve those objectives. Then I have to ask the representative Sahl: where does the proposal say that the government parties will apply universal service obligations? Where does it say? On the contrary, it says that you want to assess it – but there is hope and faith, as Director Theodorsen of Tromsø says. Where does it say that you want to put the maximum price into use? At that point, the proposal does not even say that the maximum price will be assessed. And is it not just universality and maximum price that are the instruments we have chosen to use to achieve the societal objectives of the telecommunications sector? Where does the representative Sahl have in his proposal that we should apply it? Not one place – because he does not want to use these tools! He'll wait and see, he'll hope and believe, as Theodorsen says. And as far as the market is concerned, is it correctly stated in the Government's communication that the Government does not see any need to take specific state measures to ensure the development of the telecommunications network? It is believed that the market will take care of it on a commercial basis. And commercial basis means business base. Is that right, or is it wrong? I think we can agree that this is a fairly correct quote from the message.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e534	The working party says in the setting that they have not seen the need for a partial privatisation and stock market introduction of Telenor. And so as late as in the budget setting, they went towards partial privatization and stock market listing. Nevertheless, the Labour Party is now voting for the merger agreement between Telia and Telenor, which opens the way for the privatisation of the company. What is the reason for this lack of consistency? Has something happened after New Year that makes this important now? Is the Workers' Party really in favour of a partial privatisation and stock market introduction, but has it refused until now to sign the LO? Or is it the merger with Telia that has now given the Workers' Party an opportunity to turn this case around?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e539	The working party has seen no need for a partial privatisation of Telenor with the functions that Telenor has had. I have expressed myself relatively strongly against such partial privatisation. As Telenor has acted until now, it has ultimately been possible to use it as a telecommunications policy instrument by enabling the State to exercise ownership through its 100 pst state. ownership. At that moment the state no longer has 100 pst. ownership, the State may no longer exercise the same ownership control. It is true that the Labour Party voted against the proposal in the budget, and the representative, Mr. Gerpe Hansen, asks: has something happened after the new year? Yes, it does. Something very important has happened, and that's the possibility of merging Telenor and Telia. This means that, on the part of the Workers' Party, we focus on a different perspective related to Telenor more strongly than the governance options that lie here, and that is the industrial development perspective. What's opened up by the possibilities of merging Telenor and Telia, we think we're so interesting that we should take advantage of the possibilities. We also believe that the new company will be best suited to achieving the objectives of our telecommunications policy. But we recognize at the same time that we then give up the opportunity to keep 100 pst. state ownership, and we give up the ability to exercise ownership. So you can ask the question, how far do the consequences go? I think we should recognise that in recent years the social objectives have largely been achieved through telecommunications legislation and competition law, and we can also do so with the new company. But we find that when we come into a situation where we choose to merge Telenor with another company, at least the ownership function can no longer be exercised through 100 pst. state ownership. Then there is also a lower limit to allowing partial privatisation. That's the background for us to figure out that overall it's the best solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e550	The representative Schjött-Pedersen's contribution was a demonstration of flourishing vocabulary both in the future, and – perhaps not least – in describing the Workers' Party's policy in the field of telecommunications. But if we go into the setting, we see that there's a big deal about most of it in the telecommunications sector. There's a little bit of a different word used, and the parts that have quite the same goal don't agree on all of the comments. But there's a big deal about using technology to reduce distance costs. There is a strong agreement that all households and businesses should have access to the broadband network. We're going to facilitate business development, etc. The working party points out in its comments together with SV that there are plans for a ‘significant upgrade of the feeder network’ throughout the country. Further development is planned here that – and it says correctly in the Labour Party and SV’s comments in the setting – ‘will be able to meet the demand expected in the coming years’. The Centre Party and the Right are not included in these comments, but we want – and that is what is said in the Government message – to follow closely, and, if necessary, to put in action. Then I want to challenge Schjøtt-Pedersen again on the same question as the representative Sahl asked: What is the real difference in the goal between the Labour Party and SV on the one hand and the Centre and the Right? Then I ignore the Workers' Party's strong desire to be with and rule. It almost seems that there are withdrawal symptoms because they are not in government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e559	There is a great deal of agreement on the objectives of telecommunications policy. That's interesting in itself. It has not been so many years since, as far as I remember, both the Senter Party and the Left were against Telenor being converted into a limited liability company. But it's true that although there is agreement on objectives, there is no consensus on the use of instruments. We will be very short on achieving the targets if there is a need for instruments and they are not available. So it's like the Workers' Party and SV want to introduce universal obligations, the Centre Party will not. So it's like the Workers' Party and SV want to introduce the maximum price, the Centre Party won't. It is then that the Workers' Party and SV point out that there is a need for a review of the regulatory regime, the Centre's party will not be involved in those comments. And we show together with the Right Party and the Advance Party, among others. to what is happening in the mobile phone field – the centre party is not involved in that detection. If only the words are the problem, why can't the Central Party join the Workers' Party's proposal? Isn't the point that there is a significant difference in reality because the Workers' Party and the SV want to use instruments, while the Centre Party will not use instruments – you won't be governed in the same way as the Workers' Party and the SV want? So it's true that there's a plan for further expansion. It's interesting. It doesn't cover all of Norway. But has the Central Party taken inward that they themselves today are making proposals for the Storting to sub-privatize Telenor, and that the State should have a 1/3 holding? Then my question to the representative is: Where do the Center Party and the Christian People's Party guarantee that the future owners of Telenor will make the planned development? There's nothing but plans. Where do they guarantee that? And where do they guarantee that it will be done to the extent that I assume that the Center Party and we want together?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e570	For us who took part in the major telecommunications policy debate in June 1996, it is interesting to record how positions have changed and who criticises who for what. Otherwise, when the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen spoke about the possibilities in the future and seeing yesterday's football game when you wanted to, I thought that yesterday's football game I know the result of. I want to see tomorrow's football match more – but maybe the representative can't help me with that. But I want to start from a quote from Kartell-new in the election campaign, where Jagland writes the following: ‘It is not the Labour Party’s policy to weaken the state ownership of industry. On the contrary, it is important that the State plays an active role in ensuring long-term, stable and national ownership.’ There is probably something the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen agrees with. What surprises us is to follow the debate now taking place in the oil sector around Saga, where the Labour Party has strong views on the need for state ownership. Suffering if you have Statoil in full, and you have a majority in Hydro, you're very concerned that Saga won't end up on foreign, private hands. I have to say, I don't quite understand that commitment. Telephony and Telenor's fate must almost be more important in society than what happens to Saga and ownership there, and then I wonder how the Workers' Party can easily run a hare lab over it. Schjøtt-Pedersen says to Today’s Business on 4 February that ‘the most important thing is that Norway retains its 33.4 percent’, and he does not think it has any significant significance what the Swedes do. But does Schjøtt-Pedersen have any guarantee for this with 33.4 pst? It is already in the agreement of intent that you can go down to 25.5 p.m., and at the next budgetary settlement, the center might bend down to the Right and the Advance Party, and then you're down to 0.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e584	We can all agree that it would have been ideal if Telenor could have been fed the same muscles as the merged company is now being introduced, and at the same time had all the activities in Norway and did not need to change ownership. But the world isn't even like that, and I've explained in a previous answer why we from the Labour Party believe that the overall solution that's on the table is good. So the representative Myrvoll raises the question: what about the limit of 33,4 pst? We have stated from the Labour Party in the position together with a majority in the committee that we see it as a goal to continue 51 pst. common state ownership from the Norwegian and Swedish sides, like what the two governments have expressed as their policy – it actually states ‘policy’ in the agreement. There is no guarantee of that, and we have no guarantee that there can't be a majority in the Storting that the state will sell off in relation to the 33.4 pst. The working party also assumes that we see it as a goal of maintaining 51 pst. common state ownership and that Norway shall continue the 33,4 pst. But it'll be an ongoing political discussion, and it's probably going to be parties that have a different goal. If I could be allowed to use the last few seconds to answer a question that I did not get answered by the representative Sahl, who was dealing with options, the point of the Labour Party is that when this company is to be introduced, there is very great uncertainty about the value the company wants. If you have set in advance an assumed favourable price for the employees' purchases of shares, the value could be much higher than what you thought at the time. This means that it becomes completely unpredictable and random what kind of gain employees might get. We think that would be unfortunate, and that is why we believe that we should wait to use such an instrument until the value is more clear.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e593	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e596	What is now being debated is the separation of Telenor’s network, the aggregation of Telenor AS and Telia AB and some regulatory issues in the telecommunications sector. With regard to the separation of Telenor's infrastructure network from its own company, the Progress Party has previously promoted this proposal in the Innst. S. No 123 for 1997-1998, but the proposal only got our votes. Now the representative Inge Myrvoll of the Socialist Left Party has re-examined this question, and it's a pleasure. In the light of the proposal, it is noted that the agreement on mergers between Telenor and Telia appears to be a pre-requisite that Telenor’s network should also be part of the merged company. This looks at the Progress Party, like the Socialist Left Party, with scepticism on the basis of the fact that the new company has a very strong monopoly position in Norway and Sweden. Although competitive conditions could to some extent be used to achieve telecommunications policy objectives, it is important that the network be distinguished as a separate state-owned company, not least as regards the development of a high-speed and high-quality telecommunications network. It would therefore be natural for a transmission system operator to be independent of the new merged company. The Socialist Left Party believes that other infrastructure is also owned by the State, such as the United States. The State network and the Railway Agency shall form part of the same network company, but this view is not shared by the Progress Party, as this will weaken competition between network providers. We believe that competition must apply to all networks in a society based on electronic network services in business, education, entertainment, etc. It is pointless to have competition only on the telephone network, for example: also applies to broadband networks, which have much greater capacity. These include: important to ensure that supply on the broadband network is not monopolised by means of technical barriers to competition. It will be cheaper to extend the telecommunications system to broadband by connecting to the user-side networks already developed in residential areas than by building parallel networks. This means that broadband can be more easily developed with user-led networks in other areas that lack such capacity. This will allow people to increase their offer and freedom of choice faster and more reasonably. Real competition in the Norwegian telecommunications market is a prerequisite for the continued development of lower prices and better services and the achievement of telecommunications policy objectives. It is also important for housing in districts, workplaces and well-being. The Contracting Party has registered that competition exists now in the production of services and in the transport network. Telenor is the dominant player in these markets and there is a need for stronger competition. This dominant role will be strengthened after the Telenor-Telia merger. The merger between Telenor and Telia increases the need for authorities to pursue a much more active competition policy than is currently the case. On a fixed-line basis, Telenor has continued to operate as a monopoly. It now opens up for Telenor to open its access network to other actors. The Progress Party is in favour of the merger between Telia AB and Telenor AS, with subsequent partial privatisation and market introduction. It implies the creation of a telecommunications company with significant impact that has the potential to compete in international markets with some strong competition. The merger means that significant synergies can be drawn that provide the basis for lower telecommunications prices. The new company should strengthen its research and development efforts. The merged company also has opportunities to play an important industrial role in Scandinavia. We are also familiar with the Competition Authority’s recommendation that the merged company sell Telia Norway. We share the Competition Authority's view and assume that the Competition Authority's recommendation is followed. In meeting with the CEO Tormod Hermansen of Telenor and Deputy Managing Director Ole Petter Håkonsen on 20 May, it became clear that this will be done. The Competition Surveillance Authority has carried out an assessment of the competitive effects in the Norwegian market of a merger of Telenor and Telia. The Competition Authority points out that Telia, through its subsidiary Telia Norway, is the closest one to a full-scale competitor to Telenor in Norway and that Telia Norway is also the largest of the few major competitors in several sub-markets. The merger of Telenor and Telia is therefore considered to pose a significant competition problem. However, the restrictions of competition which might result from the merger may, in the opinion of the Authority, be discouraged if Telia’s activities in the telecommunications market in Norway are disposed of to one or more operators acting independently of Telenor and Telia. The Progress Party emphasises that a pooling of Telenor and Telia can be expected to deliver societal efficiency gains in terms of reduced costs for the benefit of both other service providers and end-users. A merger will create better conditions for meeting the rapid and comprehensive structural changes in the telecommunications market both nationally and internationally. Even a merged company of Telenor and Telia will be a relatively small player, both in a European and global perspective. In our opinion, it is important to ensure effective competition in the Norwegian telecommunications market. The merger will require the conduct of a much more active competition policy by the Norwegian authorities. We have noticed that the weakening of competition in the telecommunications market that the merger will lead to is due to a lack of attention in the proposition, and we regret that. The Progress Party has noted that on the basis of a valuation, the Swedish State shall own 60 pst. by the new company, while the Norwegian State has to own 40 p.m., and is pleased to see that the merged company is to be partially privatised and introduced by the Norwegian and Swedish States by the end of 2000 by selling down so that they each own 33.4 p.m. of the shares. Under the shareholder agreement, no investor/investor group shall be able to acquire more than 3 pst. of the shares in the State sales. The purpose of the agreement is also to prevent enterprises in the media, telecommunications or information technology from acquiring more than 1 pst. We will warn against such restrictions, as it may reduce the company's ability to enter into alliances and mergers and inhibit the development of the value of the shares in the company. In the agreement, the two countries may sell down to 25.5 pst. Each. The two countries have concluded an agreement of 16 years that the State holding shall not be less than 51 pst. In the case of an issue to the company, none of the two States is obliged to maintain their holdings, but they must have an opportunity to purchase shares, so that the state ownership remains 51 p.m. The Progress Party does not consider it a State task to be a shareholder in telecommunications companies, and the state ownership of the company should therefore be liquidated. This will be consistent with developments taking place internationally. We see the objections to a commitment period of state ownership for 16 years. With the dynamics of the industry, such a bond is unwise. It will make the shares less liquid and inhibit the development of the value of the shares. Globalisation in the telecommunications sector also limits state ownership. The restructuring taking place may lead to the merging company concluding alliances with cross-ownerships or mergers with other companies. Maintaining a State holding would then prove impossible and not appropriate. The increased internationalisation may result in higher risk exposure to State capital. It also requires the state to withdraw from the company. The State should liquidate its ownership of the merged company as soon as it is commercially advantageous. We perceive that none of the States can be forced to maintain their ownership of the merged company and that it is fully possible to fully privatise the company. We refer here to the shareholder agreement attached to St.prp. No 58 for 1998-99. The Progress Party does not see state ownership itself as a crucial instrument for maintaining and further developing the IT and telecommunications industries in Norway. It is important to facilitate the expansion of these industries. It requires the development of the research environment and the competence of Norway in these areas. In order to achieve such a development, it is necessary to increase research and development efforts and to have competitive framework conditions. We therefore support the proposal to merge Telenor and Telia. The Progress Party stresses that the Stortinget in the treatment of St.meld. No 24 for 1998-99 sets important premises for the development of the telecommunications sector in Norway. New products are being developed and the consumption of telecommunications services is increasing and leading to the need for greater capacity and faster transmission technologies. The rapid technological and market changes that continue to take place in the telecommunications sector require a continuous assessment of whether laws and regulations are adapted to the challenges facing them. The Progress Party will underline the importance of a good service offer across the country. It is crucial for education, research and, in particular, business. If Norway is unable to provide modern and good telecommunications services at all times, it is a threat to employment, well-being and housing in the districts. I would like to point out that the Progress Party has been fighting for many years to liberalise the telecommunications market and to establish competition, but without obtaining a majority in the UK. Only when international trade agreements forced Norway to liberalise the telecommunications market did the bulk of GDP go into deregulation, but at the latest. Following the completion of liberalisation and the establishment of competition, progress has been made in the direction stated by the Progress Party. Services have improved and prices are lower. The fact that the bulk of the population has held onto the monopoly for so long has entailed unnecessary costs for businesses and households. Today, competition exists in services and transport networks, but Telenor is still dominant in this market and there is a need for strong competitive developments. On a fixed-line basis, Telenor has continued to operate as a monopoly. In the last two years, Telenor has significantly increased subscription prices and has justified the fact that prices have been too low over a period of time compared to the underlying costs. The Progress Party would stress that it is important for the Ministry of Transport to facilitate relations so that new players can establish themselves in the Norwegian telecommunications market. This is a prerequisite for real competition. The Progress Party is sceptical about the role of the Ministry of Transport in promoting competition measures. At the same time as the Ministry has overall responsibility for ensuring that companies and households receive good services at low prices through competition in the telecommunications market, the Ministry manages the state ownership of Telenor. The Progress Party will therefore sell these shares to private individuals. The Progress Party considers it very unfortunate that the Ministry of Transport both manages the State ownership of Telenor and is also the authority of the Post and Telecommunications Regulatory Authority vis-à-vis, among other things. Telenor. It is therefore essential that ownership and regulatory authorities do not lie in the same department in the future. The Progress Party will stress the importance of the country as a whole meeting its needs for broadband services as technological developments and the expected increase in demand for these types of services in the coming years. The Progress Party will point out that Telenor also has an approximate monopoly on the access network. This network must now be opened up to other actors in order to establish competition in this market segment as well. Finally, I would like to address the proposal by the Progress Party in the Inner East. S. No 196 for 1998-99.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e653	Christopher Stensaker has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e658	The party of progress wants to appear as a liberalist party. Sometimes reference is made, except in the case of tax increases, where many camels are swallowed in the Bondevik alliance. I will not be disgusting, but the CO2 tax is tempting to pick up. It is therefore great that the Progress Party is now in the Inner East. S. No 197 states that the aggregation of Telia and Telenor means that: ‘significant synergies can be drawn to prepare the basis for lower telecommunications prices’. The representative of Stensaker said in his speech just now that the Progress Party was engaged in an equivalent offer for the whole country on telecommunications services. Then it is close to me to ask the representative Stensaker why he is not so concerned about helping to secure consumers in a better way by now introducing maximum prices. Because this is a step in the right direction in terms of equivalent offers, and it is also a question of district policy. And I thought that when the Progress Party had actually begun to take an interest in it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e668	The representative, Eirin Faldet, thought that it was great that the Progress Party was in favour of an equivalent offer across the country, ensuring an offer for everyone, and therefore wondered why it was not in favour of maximum prices. It is enough that the market also decides that people should wear clothes and shoes, even at all edges of Norway. It is not that the state has to own and operate clothing shops and shoe shops, although these are goods that people have to have. And the maximum price, what is it? Is it the intention of the public to set a ceiling on the price, so that if that price does not cover the actual costs, then does the public difference cover the taxpayers' money? It must be better for public authorities to facilitate competition in the market to regulate the price without public interference. When the Socialists and the Workers' Party talk about that they want regulation and control, I start to freeze on my back. The Progress Party also wants regulation on the telecommunications market, but it is only based on a competitive situation, and we do not want the type of governance and regulation that the Workers' Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e678	I have seen it so that for the Progress Party there is market-free competition and liberalisation. Now we have a liberalized telecommunications market, and as a consequence of that, we get a merger between Telenor and Telia. It may seem from the Christian People's Party that the Progress Party has an ambivalent relationship with it. On the one hand, the merged company becomes too large, and it becomes a problem for the domestic market, but on the other hand, the merger is good for the foreign market, for the external competition. I should have liked to have had a reply from the representative, Stensaker, as to whether he does not agree with the fact that the merger we have now received is precisely the result of this liberalisation. In addition, the Progress Party wishes to distinguish telecommunications lines and services. That's what they want to achieve through a company that's going to be 100 pst. owned by the State and, in addition, this company is not required to make money. Then I have two questions for the representative, Stensaker. The first is, what is it that in this case makes the Progress Party want to have a 100 pst. State owned company? The second is, how should a person be able to finance this when new requirements are still being imposed on the network, and when the lot also stresses that they will ‘work for a faster deployment of the core networks and the information motorway’? Where will one then get the money to finance the motorway when the company is going to be a so-called break even company?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e685	I'm going to take the last one first, how to finance a broadband network with a break even system. In fact, income is equal to expenditure and is financed by users. So to this with the merged company and the domestic and foreign competition. It is clear that the Progress Party sees that it is a problem to get a strong company domestically in competition with less. That is why we want it to be arranged so that no one is prevented from accessing the Internet. We also see the positive fact that the company is merged with the Swedish, that it is good for competition against the rest of the world. It is clear that we are very small in a foreign context, and in order to compete in that market you have to merge or merge, which is a better, good Norwegian word. So that we want to separate the telecommunications lines, and that it's going to be in the public domain. We do that from the point of view that you can't have ten lines into a house, you have to find one way, just like with electricity, water and such services, and then it's okay that there's a break even company, which makes sure that everyone has equal access, access, to the individual end user.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e694	It is not good to get wise on the progress of the Party in relation to Telenor's network. They agree with SV to separate Telenor's network into their own state company, but they do not take the consequences of it and vote against Telia and Telenor merger. The Progress Party has been a party that prefers private ownership rather than public ownership, but now the Progress Party is in favour of state ownership of the telecommunications network in Norway and of the IT bet at Fornebu. Siv Jensen, in advance of the National Meeting of the Progress Party, called for increased state ownership in Norwegian business, and the Progress Party now stands together with SV to prevent private capital from investing in the telecommunications network – no, it should remain state-owned. What is the reason for this newfound belief in the Progress Party that government ownership and government can meet the challenges of society? Does the Progress Party have any experience with the monopoly that we do not have? And if I were to try to take the Advance Party in the best opinion, that they are engaged in this network and the expansion of it, and that the state must ensure that subscribers get an offer, why aren't they involved in the proposal that Right has promoted with the government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e703	The representative, Ellen Gjerpe Hansen, was concerned with the state ownership of the telecommunications network, private capital and the rental price. I thought it came out of my post, but I can repeat it again, that we believe in state ownership in the telecommunications network to ensure a competition, which is also right-wing. Competition is ensured by the fact that no one has a private interest and monopoly on this network. The payment is also seen as a break even company, which I was in for, where the rental price for the network is equal to the cost of development and operation. This should ensure that all suppliers have equal access to each household in this country and that no barriers to access can regulate the market. We think that is the best advice we can give in the telecommunications market – and that otherwise the public keeps its fingers out of the barrel.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e710	The promotion party likes to give the impression that they are a business-friendly party, and also places great emphasis on the need for business to be internationally oriented. But now they're saying with a lot of weight that they can't help securing companies a high-speed telecommunications network with universal service obligations. The representative Stensaker says that he is so afraid of the monopoly and regulation ghost that he freezes on his back. And then my question is: is the fear of regulation so strong in the Progress Party that it overshadows the sense of giving businesses across the country the same opportunities on the national and international markets?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e717	The representative, Gunn Olsen, wondered if we were afraid of the regulatory ghost. I have to answer that we are not afraid of neither regulatory ghosts nor other ghosts. I guess we're most afraid that the Workers' Party will come to power again. But when it comes to securing a high-speed network with universal service, we can't see that it goes beyond that because if we go in for the state to own the high-speed network. We believe that this is what is needed in order to have a well-functioning competitive society in the telecommunications sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e724	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e727	In the last few days, we have seen in several newspapers headlines where a representative of one of the country's parties speaks of the position of both themselves and others in a way that is absolutely not based in the world of reality. It is therefore with pleasure that I shall now say a little about what is the Christian People's Party and Government's view of telecommunications policy. Let me therefore quote, in the introduction, from a proposal promoted by the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Left: ‘All households and businesses shall be ensured the possibility of connecting to a telecommunications infrastructure with a transmission capacity sufficient to make use of ever-new possibilities for electronic communications at acceptable prices.’;» Let me also quote a little from our remark: ‘In order for the whole country to be able to participate in development, it is important that high-speed network connectivity is offered at prices that are as equivalent as possible throughout the country.’ It is therefore not the case that some have tried to produce it, that government parties are against a well-developed offer of telecommunications in all parts of the country at prices that are as equivalent as possible. It's actually directly wrong, a direct incorrect information. The issues we are dealing with today are large and comprehensive, and they are important for our future telecommunications policy. The development of the telecommunications sector will affect our everyday lives in the future, perhaps to a greater extent than we know – and – I have to comment on the views of Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen at the beginning of his contributions. It's okay to have views, but it might also have a negative effect, as some of the things that were listed might have. There are many positive effects, but there are also some negative ones, and I'm concerned that we should be able to say that we have a positive, critical assessment of this. That's something we don't have to forget in my opinion, and that's that it's still going to be important with closeness and direct communication between people. I am sure that the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen also agrees. The fact that we have an offer throughout Norway to connect to a telecommunications network with sufficient transmission capacity at acceptable prices will be crucial for the competitiveness of industry and the locational choices of many businesses. A good offer across the country is good district policy. A good offer is important for Norwegian competitiveness. It is good district policy to have a good offer throughout the country, and it is crucial for our competitiveness and for our ability to develop industries other than the petroleum sector that we have good telecommunications infrastructure. If the president now thinks I repeated myself, just a little bit differently, that's right. But I do it in the hope that if I say it many times enough, then maybe everyone will realize that I actually mean it. There is full agreement that it is important that all households and businesses throughout the country have access to good telecommunications infrastructure. Furthermore, there is a fairly broad consensus that, in order to prevent the development of adverse price differences, the necessary instruments must be put into effect. But then there is the small disagreement: on the part of the Christian People's Party and the government parties, we point – together with the Right – to both universal obligations for actors with a strong market position and maximum prices as possible instruments. We ask the Government to assess universal service, and we also say that if there are any price differences, we have to assess the maximum price. Then we add that a maximum price scheme has to be seen in conjunction with any universal service obligation. The only difference is whether it is necessary to adopt today the use of instruments that we may need once in the future. The government has shown that the company's own plans seem to meet the expected needs. We're taking it with us, but we're clarifying some important objectives. Then we'll clearly tell you what we want, and what means we want to use, if that becomes necessary. So the distinction is whether we're going to put in place schemes now that we don't have to. The Christian People's Party, together with the rest of the Centre Parties and the Right, is committed to ensuring a legal and regulatory framework up-to-date with regard to technological development, and believes – as I believe the Labour Party – that Norwegian authorities in the EU and EEA context should work to ensure that high-speed networks can also be covered by the maximum price regime and be part of joint financing schemes. We are concerned by the Christian People's Party that Norway will continue to be at the forefront of technological developments in telecommunications, as we do today. That is why we have written this in the proposal of the Government Parties and the Right: ‘It must be an objective that Norwegian users can use new services early compared to users in other countries.’ We see, of course, that we're better able to win this. However, it is not possible for the Stortinget to decide that we should use new services earlier than the users in other countries, as can be read in the Workers' Party's Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen press release, which states that it is assumed that the expansion will enable Norwegian users to take up relevant services earlier than users in other countries. It has to do with the authorities of other countries and the companies operating in this market. I have noted that the Labour Party in the proposal has agreed that this should be an objective, as others have agreed. The offer of fixed telephony, leased lines and connection to digital networks is currently part of Telenor’s delivery obligations. Under EEA legislation, additional costs incurred by companies through the obligation to provide these basic services may be distributed among all actors, for example: in the case of a fee for redistribution through a fund. Per. Today estimates show that Telenor will pay most of the money itself in the next few years. Therefore, such a fund is not introduced now, but we maintain that the possibility exists and that developments will be assessed continuously. I would now like to stress – as in the previous debate when we discussed this – that we are not opposed to the use of USO funds. We're actually in order for it to be used, if it's necessary and appropriate. So far in telecommunications infrastructure, high-speed networks and St.meld. No 24 for 1998-99. Then to St. prp. No 58 for 1998-99, on the aggregation of Telenor AS and Telia AB. We're going to merge two companies that, in the Nordic context, are each very large, into one even larger. And we're talking about values corresponding to more than half a state budget. The reality is that telecommunications policy has been driven for several years by market regulation and not by ownership, as was well mentioned in the contribution of the Workers’ Party’s representative. Therefore, the fact that the new company now becomes a limited liability company and that the Norwegian State is holding a minority of the shares does not in itself have to have a significant influence on the telecommunications policy we are going to conduct. Let me therefore stress that the telecommunications policy objectives are firm, and that the new company has the same obligations and has to deal with the same concession conditions as now. One of the main objectives of the association is to enable the company to offer better and more technologically future-oriented services at lower prices than would otherwise be possible. The Christian People's Party believes that a common Nordic actor will have more opportunity to exploit the potential internationally. The two countries retain the majority of their shares in the company. Both countries are going to sell down to 33.4 pst. ownership interest by the end of 2000 and, secondly, the country agrees that no one should sell below 25, 5 pst. However, if one were to do so, the other State shall have the right to repurchase in order to ensure a majority of the States. We would also like to highlight what the majority – the centre parties and the Workers' Party – say in a note, that there must be a balance between companies in terms of influence, management and location. It is a pleasure to record that we are now – as opposed to the previous one – able to arrive at a result that both the Swedish and Norwegian authorities, Telia and Telenor can live with. It is also very gratifying that, now that we are going to carry out such a large operation as this merger, it is actually taking place with the support of a very broad majority. I will present proposal No. 2 from the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party, and the Left, in the Inner. S. No 198.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e790	Mr. Kofoed-Larsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e795	The Christian People's Party and the Centre Party are concerned with the regional policy impact of the telecommunications policy and the regulatory environment around it. It was the centre party to the highest degree – at least rhetorical – in opposition, and it was the representative Kofoed-Larsen also now. She even said it in many different ways. The representative Kofoed-Larsen also knows how we strive to develop and build in the region from which we lived. An enterprise will not establish itself or be there if it does not have the same good conditions as in the country in the central area, even in the case of telecommunications services. Kofoed-Larsen also knows that we are investing quite a lot in travel life, and a good deal of businesses within the travel industry are actually quite far away from all colors. I have to ask the representative, Mr Kofoed-Larsen, whether she agrees that these should have the same conditions as those of central companies when it comes to telecommunications services. Or is it that this should be reconsidered? There's actually a problem now, because they don't have the same conditions. If the answer is that they should have the same services, then it sounds like there's a certain distance between stated goals and the willingness to use the tool. Why would the Christian People's Party not agree with a proposal to introduce universal service? No, it has to be reconsidered – as we know the need is already there. They are also not involved in a proposal to have a maximum price scheme for the use of high-speed services, although the need is already present. This is actually a completely necessary tool to avoid biased pricing. Expressing the goal without showing the will to use the necessary tools, seemed to me rather unlikely.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e805	The representative Torstein Rudihagen, who is from my home country, and I agree that it is important for all these travel businesses to have the same connection as others, and I will just refer to what is in the proposal that we have promoted: ‘All households and businesses shall be ensured the possibility of connecting to a telecommunications infrastructure with a transmission capacity sufficient to make use of ever-new possibilities for electronic communications at acceptable prices. This offer is being developed in line with the need and development of the network across the country.’» It is therefore quite identical to the proposal of the Workers' Party. Today, Telenor is responsible, and if it turns out not to go in the same direction as today, namely that the market regulates this, then we will assess, and the Government will assess whether to impose delivery obligations. We have also opened up the possibility to assess the maximum price scheme. But I would also like to say that, in relation to maximum price arrangements on high-speed networks, the Labour Party, like the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Right and the Left, says that, in relation to the EEA Regulation and the EU, this must be addressed in the negotiations now to be held in relation to this with the extension of the basic services currently available, so that it also includes high-speed services. In fact, I think we agree with the Labour Party in this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e817	The profile of the Christian People's Party in the telecommunications sector is not exactly clear, and the party is reveling for clear positions in some areas. The Christian People's Party says in its attitude that they are committed to ensuring the competitiveness of the telecommunications industry and telecommunications operators, and that's good and good. Competition supervision states that the restrictions on competition which might result from a merger may be offset by the disposal of Telia’s activities in Norway. The Christian People's Party has noticed that, but I want to ask if the Christian People's Party intends to follow up the Competition Authority's recommendation, or if they leave this just as a comment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e824	I think it is very nice that there is such a broad consensus in this matter on most of the issues of telecommunications policy. Today’s treatment shows that the Right Party, the Workers’ Party and most of us – in fact all in many contexts – agree on telecommunications policy. So the representative says Gerpe Hansen that the profile of the Christian People's Party in the telecommunications sector is a little unclear. I can't see that the profile is very unclear in any area. We agree on a rather sharp profile, also with the Right. However, in terms of ensuring competitiveness and the question of whether we want to follow the Competition Authority, we have already said in a note to which the representative referred that we have noticed what the Competition Authority has said about Telia, and we are still firmly committed that of course it should be noted and followed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e831	The political basis of the central government is to read that the centre parties disagree ‘with the strong focus on business profitability in relation to key service functions’, among others. in the field of telecommunications policy. Furthermore, it states that the organisation of ‘good telecommunications is important in order to ensure an equivalent service provision for all parts of the country’, and that the centre administration will ‘revisit changes’ in the telecommunications services. My question to the representative Kofoed-Larsen will then be: What areas of telecommunications policy do Christian People's Party think we are now going to have improvements in line with the intentions that the central government seems to have underpinned? And what kind of review has the government had in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e838	To the representative Gunn Olsen, I will first be allowed to say that I will have the Minister of Transport, who is present, answer the government's question that was asked there. With regard to the Waxenå Declaration and what is said there about telecommunications policy, it is clear that the Christian People's Party, as I just said from the Chair a few minutes ago, wants the telecommunications market today to be such that everyone should have the opportunity to make use of the new telecommunications services. I think that I have said quite clearly: everyone should be given the opportunity – telecommunications services should be forward-looking, that is what is important – to use the services that come in the future. There we are, I think, agree with the Workers' Party as well. So we need to be able to make use of and have the possibility for ever-new electronic aids at acceptable prices. That is the goal that we all have, including the Christian People's Party. We, like everyone else, see developments that have been, that are coming, in the telecommunications sector. We know that it's going to change quite quickly in the years to come, and that we have to be so forward-looking that we're going to be able to accommodate everyone so that they can use the services at acceptable prices. That's the goal for us, and that's the goal for the whole committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e847	The representative, Rigmor Kofoed-Larsen, was in competition. It is now that Telenor is the only company with terrestrial networks that has free right to drive, and has thus seen an important competitive advantage, among other things. by notifying Telenor and allowing the company to place its cables in ditches, as other excavators, at much lower costs than if Telenor were to cover the full excavation costs. When the Christian People's Party is engaged in competition, will it perhaps be natural that the party looks at this question?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e854	The representative, Christopher Stensaker, wonders whether we in the Christian People's Party are also open to look at the rights that Telenor, according to the opinion of the Advance Party, has in relation to this with the Internet. We're open to look at changes. We've told you a long time ago that we're open to looking at these things, so that there's competition, but today we can't see that a connection other than the fixed access that's set is the right one. But we will follow the matter in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e859	The representative Kofoed-Larsen said in his post, and underlined that there is no good offer at acceptable prices for the whole country. No, who is it? The question is not really what you are against or what you are for, it is what means you want to use that is the basic question – and she referred to it as the ‘little disagreement’. But it could be that it's the little disagreement, the little difference, that's crucial. Tormod Hermansen said to Svenska Dagbladet on 25 January this year, which is quite correct, which is the undisguised truth, that everyone should know that Telia-Telenor is going to operate on purely market terms, and those who put money in the company need not be afraid that we are going to conduct district policies. I think that's absolutely right. And then the question is, what do we do? It is clear that Telenor has its own development plans and that the new company will implement the parts of the plans for which they find market profitability. And then the small difference comes out: are we going to wait late and see how this goes, or are we going to make sure that we are in the forefront and get the premises and give the necessary instructions that make the whole country come along? Everyone's been so busy here that it's about not to get late. It's in this area as well. If the districts come in the rear, they're going to be in the rear. There's the small difference – and that's the crucial difference.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e868	The representative, Inge Myrvoll, addresses an important topic, namely this with equal prices also in the districts. We're all concerned about that, and we've all written about this in our comments and in our proposals. So there's no disagreement. But I have said earlier here today that if it turns out that there is a difference, we want the Government to assess a maximum price regime, and also include what has been said about clarification in relation to the EEA and EU in terms of maximum prices and high-speed networks. The matter of Inge Myrvoll is very important. In response to what was referred to by Tormod Hermansen, I have to say that the concession terms are in the proposition, in the shareholder agreement and in the association agreement, so we still have an opportunity, and that's quite important.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e875	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e878	The three matters in the telecommunications area that we are debating today include several important aspects of Norwegian telecommunications policy. I will first make a few brief comments to Document No. 8:42 to establish a private company for the management of state telecommunications networks. I see clearly that there may be arguments to separate the network from a private company, but also arguments that this should not happen. For the Central Party, it has been a main argument that there is a close interaction between networks and services in the telecommunications sector. The Telenet transmits a rapidly increasing number of interactive services between two or more parties. This is a big difference from, for example: the power grid, which transfers one-way electricity to the final user based on a technology that has been unchanged over a year. On the other hand, both infrastructure and service production are subject to very rapid technological developments. Even if it's also beneficial by separating the web from a private company, we're going to end up in the Central Party, concluding that we can't join the proposal in Document No. 8:42. The centre party has and has as its primary objective the availability of high-quality basic telecommunications services at the lowest price for all households and businesses across the country. This is also the focus of the central government. Int. S. No 197 on the merger of Telenor and Telia has a plurality, the Labour Party and the Centre Party, in the comments, stressing that these are key objectives of telecommunications policy. The centre party has also participated in previous teleshopping settings with multiple comments of the same content. I am also pleased that the majority have said that the assessment of what are basic telecommunications services needs to be changed in line with technological developments. Enterprises and individuals throughout the country must have the same opportunity to apply new services so that all can operate on equal terms in work and leisure. Today, Telenor, as the company with a leading position in Norway, is subject to nationwide universal service obligations, maximum prices in some areas and the performance of community tasks. For the Central Party, it is imperative that nation-wide universality, maximum prices and the performance of societal tasks are passed on. This is also a great number for the Stortinget. When merging the two companies, the legislation and the terms of the concession must ensure these arrangements. The representative, Schjøtt-Pedersen, has repeatedly claimed that the centre party goes against maximum prices, universal service and regulation. Then I have to quote from the setting that we are debating today. The centre lot says in a note: ‘It must be an objective to facilitate forward-looking telecommunications regulation and thus stimulate innovation and investment in Norway.’ And at the end of the day, the centre party continues with the Right to the Norwegian authorities, among others. in the context of EU/EEA regulatory audit ‘should work to ensure that high-speed networks can also be covered by a maximum price scheme’. So this said Schjøtt-Pedersen was going against maximum prices, universal service and regulation. For the Centre Party, it is important to maintain a strong telecommunications company with national anchorages in order to ensure the provision of state-of-the-art and advanced telecommunications and IT services at low prices. Compared to other countries, Norway has a low price level and a good selection of telecommunications services. This is what we want to continue. Telenors actively benefit from their competitive and competences in a targeted initiative, national and international. Telenors must be able to keep up with this effort and also follow the rapid development of the telecommunications sector. A common Nordic actor could have a greater chance of exploiting the potential for expansion and value creation in the international market. In the new company, one can take advantage of the best from both Telenor and Telia. In this setting, the center part and the working part are placed behind the multiple comments. I suggested that these comments be emphasized. In the light of these and of the agreement reached, the Centre Party may support the merger of Telia and Telenor. I want to go under a couple of important principles that form the basis of the merger agreement, and that the centre party I believe is important to accept this process. The merger and governance of the new company should be based on the fact that the parties should have equal influence, and that the Norwegian and Swedish governments have agreed that the total state ownership should be at least 51 pst. I don't have a problem admitting that there are aspects to the aggregation of Telia and Telenor that the Center Party is not particularly pleased about. The term of the contract is 16 years. The centre party had no objections to a longer term. The property of 34 pst. in each of the two countries, a reduction may be made in certain situations. It is clear that parts of the agreement depend on opinions and opinions in future magnification and in the Swedish Parliament. But whether we get a summation of Telia and Telenor or not, it's hard to predict the future. The centre party has not been a driver for the privatisation of Telenor, nor has it been. However, it cannot be expected that if Telenor is to follow developments in the telecommunications sector, yes, not just follow, but be primarily developing, it may have advantages for private operators to enter with risk capital and participate in the assessment of future investment. There are few functional areas that are distributed between the two countries. Location of functional areas such as the Internet, mobile phone, satellite technology, etc. shall be finally adopted by the Management Board of the company. In the center party, we would have preferred that the location of the function areas were divided into the agreement. This has not happened, and on the basis of this, the Central Party is in a plural comment that says that the distribution of the lease functions must be done in such a way as to ensure a balance between the activities of the two countries. Before leaving the merger between Telenor and Telia, I would also point to the fact that the merger of the two companies will lead to a reduction in addition. When this first occurs as a result of the merger, the Centre Party is aware that the process of conversion takes place in close cooperation with their organisations, and that the new company is continuing the efforts for them to add their security that they have had in Telenor. Both in the merger setting of Telenor and Telia and in the setting of certain regulatory issues in the telecommunications sector, it is strongly stressed that it is important for the whole country to be able to participate in future developments. The whole country must then be provided with broadband access at prices that are as comparable as possible across the country. The Labour Party has recently tried to make it appear that only the Labour Party, together with SV, is responsible for a policy that ensures the whole country access to broadband networks at equivalent prices. The working party's production is a positive error. The content of many central and right comments is the same as in many of the Workers' Party and SV comments. The difference is that the Workers' Party and SV have had to use a very thriving language, and that they have also had to show an extreme desire to control. When the Right Party and the Centre have stressed the need for the entire country to have access to broadband networks at equivalent prices, it is because this is a decisive competitive factor both for private business and for public administration. Distance drawbacks can be greatly reduced by means of new technologies. Yes, even private individuals in different parts of the country should have the same access to broadband networks. Everyone must have the same opportunity to acquire knowledge and use information and communication tools. The broadband network must be extended throughout the country. The transport network is largely in place, while the lack of transmission capacity appears mainly to be on the access networks. These will be upgraded and supplemented every now and then. The Centre Party and the Right have confidence that the Government will follow developments closely, and that it will be assessed whether there is a need for public action and regulation to ensure development, with as much equivalent prices as possible across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e927	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e930	Today's teledebate seemed to be in a good way to have undressed the centre party a very important part of the party's district salibi, yes, it is actually admitted by the representative Ringstad here. The majority, all non-governmental parties, make clear leadership for licences to the next generation of mobile systems to come as early as possible. It is expressed in a very offensive way in the setting, but the central part is not included. The Workers' Party's comments state that we must introduce universal service obligations, that maximum price arrangements must be introduced now, that is not expressed in terms of weak wording, as the representative Ringstad referred to, that it should, or that it must be, an objective. Here I am talking about a significant difference in the government party, including the Central Party, and what the Labour Party has said in its comments. The centre party comments in the configuration prompt for a wait and see behaviour. This high-tech world is not going anywhere. Here you have to add another wide page or to keep to the professional language: one has to add the broadband to make it come out to all parts of the country. The Ulstein Group states that sufficient broadband capacity is more important than the Eiksund link. It tells something about the organization of business in all parts of the country. I have to ask the representative, Mr Ringstad, if she is satisfied with the signals in which the Central Party is in some way complicit in telepolitical arrangements in the District of Norway. And did the representative Ringstad think that this has sufficient ‘driving’ in an industry where developments are unlikely to take place both internationally and nationally?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e943	I think I have to repeat what I said in my post, and that has been said quite many times here. It seems that some people don't have the same idea. The aim of the centre is that all households and all enterprises should be able to access telecommunications services. We have also said that there should be, as far as possible, equivalent prices — the same wording that the Labour Party has used. We have also said that what is the basic telecommunications services needs to be evaluated as new services come into existence. The big difference in this room is between those who have confidence that the Government will follow developments carefully and put in action whenever necessary, and those who will decide everything at once and are terrified that they don't have a hand on the wheel. That's where the big difference lies. The Center Party and the Right are confident that the sitting government will take this seriously. There's a comment from a multiple of them saying what the goal is. The government has a responsibility to follow up and stay on the watch, and then, if necessary, a insert action shall be taken. I came up with three quotes from comments on which the centre party is involved, which clearly states what one expects to ensure that the future coverage of telecommunications services is equal throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e954	The representative Jorunn Ringstad was about equality and that everyone should have access to high-speed networks in all parts of the country, and that's good and good. But fully expanding the fibre network in Norway today costs between 10 and 15 billion kroner, roughly. Who thinks the Center Party should pay for this? As the representative of the Central Party has said, it is intended to introduce a maximum price. Will the Central Party and the Government now go in to ensure that these funds, which are lacking in order to have a fully developed fibre network, are granted so that everyone has equal access to high-speed networks wherever in the country they live? And if so, when will that allocation come?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e959	I notice one thing, and it is that the representative Stensaker from the Progress Party has at least discovered what the Labour Party has not yet discovered, namely that the Center Party is not at maximum prices. It is good to right that some are so awake that they have understood it. We believe that there should be an extension of broadband network connectivity across the country. As it also says in the proposition, it's a plan for an expansion – an expansion is on its way. What is also stated in the proposal is that the transmission system is mainly in place, but the access system lacks many spaces. And it's quite right that, in order to get it into place, it's called a cost of approx. NOK 10-20 billion. What we also need to know – and it also looks like a reading of the proposition – is that there are plans for an expansion, and this is what the companies will work to build up. They have plans for such an extension. And this is where the government comes in and will be on the watch and evaluate afterwards: will this expansion meet the goals that the Storting has? If not, the Government will have to make proposals for measures to ensure that the objectives are achieved. But at the moment, it's a plan that's going on in a positive direction. And then it's the government that's going to follow what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e968	The Centre Party has for a number of years presented state ownership as a decisive management tool for different policy areas. The central party in the government has now been responsible for negotiating a merger agreement that paves the way for the privatisation of Telenor. Then I hear that Jorunn Ringstad clearly says that there are aspects of this privatisation that the Center Party does not like. Has the Center Party had to bend down in the Government, or do we now see the beginning of a spin-off in the Center Party in relation to state ownership? My question is: can the decision taken today by Stortinget open up the possibility that the Centre Party may also be willing in other areas to get to private, for example: in the NSB?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e975	It is quite right that the Central Party has had state ownership as an important commitment to facilitate and operate some of the services that we think are necessary for the inhabitants of the country. So there's been a development. Telenor has been a share company. There is nothing happening today, it has been done in the past as well, and here we see a development that is the result of decisions that have been made in the past. I was honest enough to admit that there's not all sides to this aggregation we're equally happy with. But I wonder if the representative in all the decisions she's on is 100 pst. Satisfied with absolutely all sides in all matters. It'll always be so that one has to consider the plus and minus sides, and then one has to come to a conclusion. Then it's clear that in the overall situation we're in, the positives have to be in excess, or weigh more than all the negatives. And that's the situation we've had here. I am also aware that the Right is not just happy with everything in the agreement, but they are certainly least happy with what we might be most pleased with. It shows that we have a slightly different view of some things in the political field. We see this as a consequence of a development that has happened on the telecommunications side, but it does not mean that we will automatically go to the same step in other areas. We're going to have to take this piece right here. The rapid development in telecommunications is important to be involved, and then we see that this can be a useful solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e984	The representative, Ringstad, opened up talking about the central party's objective in telecommunications policy. She should have said: the central party's objective in telecommunications policy today. All of us are developing in terms of telecommunications policy, but the Central Party is doing so in large, huge leaps across depths that it cannot be possible to skip. When the representative Ringstad talks about the extreme desire of the Workers' Party and the SV to rule, I am a little surprised. I see that the parliamentary leader, Johan J. Jakobsen, is also present in the Chamber, and I am sitting here with a bunch of quotations from the parliamentary leader in a previous teasing debate, where he just points out the need to govern. He says, among other things:\t\t You can ‘I believe that the law we have in this field is one of the instruments we can use today, but not fully exploited.’ He said that three years ago when we discussed the suspension of exclusive rights, and I have a number of such quotes where the Central Party went farthest by everyone in the matter of governing. Today they will not rule at all. I also have to say that I am a little surprised when I hear what is being said, that they see some positive elements with privatisation. I'm sitting here with Telecom Revy from August 21, 1997, and that's election campaign. The current head of the Transport Committee, Magnus Stangeland, says the following – and he is terrified of the privatisation of Telenor: «We look at Telenor in the same way as we look at the Swedish Aviation Administration, the Swedish Railway Agency and the Road Administration: we need infrastructure and it must be a state responsibility.» So one might ask: is it next that the Aviation Agency, the Railway Agency and the Road Administration are to be privatized? In other words, there is no connection in the telecommunications policy of the Central Party for a few years now. We're all changing to politics, but at least we're trying to have a little thread in the changes. The center party has no thread. The representative of Ringstad should say that this agreement is bad, but we have to agree to it – we agreed to the privatisation last fall because we were forced to kneel on the Right and the Advance Party to get the budget into port. It might be repeating itself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1006	If it would have been possible to put a question back to the representative Myrvoll and get answers immediately, it might be interesting to ask the question: How long does the representative Myrvoll have short-term memory? For SV helped turn Telenor into an AS, and that's a much more dramatic change for Telenor's situation than what we're doing today. Here, not only is it necessary to look at what we are doing today, but it also needs to look back at what has been done before and what the consequences of previous decisions have. I didn't say the appointment was bad. I have said that it is not all aspects of this agreement that we are equally pleased with. But I'm honest enough to admit that here it's plus and minus pages. I was inside a part of the sides that we might not be as happy about, and that's true of partial privatization. It has not been a battle cause for us to share Telenor, nor is it today, but we are involved in a development that is the result of previous decisions. What I pointed out by the partial privatisation that we are now involved in is that Telenor has asked for capital to be able to follow developments and invest abroad. The center party agreed to give state funds for such a bet, and it is clear that the telenor signal for a long time has been that it was just a first start-up option. They had to have bigger capital to bet. Obtaining private capital and getting private valuations can be a positive side.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1015	President, a manifest misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1022	The representative may clarify that misunderstanding at the beginning of his statement. He's next on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1026	If I perceived the Center Party right, it was a bigger change to turn Telenor into a state AS than it is to privatize parts of Telenor. Now I understand why I've had problems with the logic of the Center Party every year. I have to say that I was also amazed when I saw the setting and the Central Party's passivity on such an important issue for the districts as the transmission capacity is. No less surprised I am after hearing the passivity of the post from the representative of the Central Party. IT can be centralising if we don't have some political direction of development. In the districts, we now have more companies and centres in IT, but too little capacity is reported, and there is an ongoing assessment by the companies of the continued suitability of being located in the districts. What we experience, unlike the Government's assessment in the Communication, is that it's not the market that adapts to businesses, but it's the companies and businesses that adapt to the network capacity. At all times, the Centre Party emphasises its assessment and assessment, while changes are taking place where the districts are losers. Instead, the working party wants to be in the forefront, confident that the need is there, and that it will only get bigger – six months is known for a long time in this industry. The representative of the centre party is also trying to get close to the Workers' Party and SV in this case. It's so far true that there's a lot of convergence in the goal, as we've always heard here today, but the difference is action. That's what matters to the districts. The centre party has objectives, the Workers' Party and SV will act. How does the Central Party think that the market, defined here as the transfer capacity, is going to be able to adapt to demand, when what we've experienced in recent years, is that the opposite actually happens? Finally, I must say that I was surprised to hear that it is a problem for the Central Party that we want political governance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1039	It was very interesting to hear from a representative from the Labour Party, a party that is now fighting for IT fornebu and to gather the most possible of the IT technology in Norway in a central area. It was very interesting to hear the glow that a representative of that party produces when it comes to another area, where the values might have been created out, if one wasn't to concentrate up to one central area. That IT can be passivating and district hostile is okay, if one does not have the ability and access to it in the districts. But it is not possible to make a claim that the government party is passive in the development that is taking place. There's an extension going on. There are plans for further development of the local loop. It has to be invested. There are plans you have started to implement. Further plans must be made. Then it's a pretty good claim to say that it's passivity. I'm holding on to what I said earlier. The difference here in today's room is that the government party is confident that the government will follow up the work that has been done, and will see to it that the work continues. It is not the way the representative tried to produce it, that the Labour Party and SV will act. It's activity, it's action, and it should still be. There is no need to insert a lot of measures before checking if they are necessary. However, the opening for action is in place and, where necessary, the Government Party shall be a driver.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1048	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1051	I'm going to start by clarifying an obvious misunderstanding. I'm assuming I get the supplement in time for that. SV voted against the conversion of the Telecom into Telenor and a limited liability company together with the Zenterpartiet. In retrospect, I think we made a mistake. When I look at developments in the telecommunications market, I think it was a necessary decision in its time, which we then voted against. On the other hand, we went in to cancel the last exclusive rights for three years ago. I think that was also absolutely necessary and correct from the point of view of technological development. But that doesn't mean you have to stop using the control mechanisms you have. What we are now discussing is a major telecommunications policy upheaval, which has not received the attention of a revolution. There might be a lot of reasons for that. One reason is that it is an expected upheaval. It's expected because Telenor has long signaled that they're looking for partners. We had a round last year that got more attention, because there was a game, not about the essentials – the essence of a merger – but a fictitious power struggle between the Telenor leadership and the then Minister of Transport Dørum and between the Council of State and the Greatness – a fight not about telepolitics strategy, but about rules of play. It was sometimes hot! In this round there is no game of importance, and for the media the game is often more important than the content. There is also no tension about the result. Only SV say no to the merger. The position we are discussing is therefore the report on a expected merger with an expected result. Telenor's goal has been crystal clear all along, but for us there may be reason to have as a correction a quote from the President of the Newspaper on 21 January 1999: ‘What is good for Telia and Telenor is not necessarily good for Norwegian society.’ But nevertheless, there is no small political event happening today, despite the lack of attention. It's been turbulence in the last few days around Saga's destiny, but I think what's happening here is much bigger. What do the majority, including the Workers' Party and the Centre, who are occupied by Norwegian ownership in Saga? Well, they leave an epoch, the era when the state, through ownership, had a telepolitic tool through Telenor and the former Telecom – the only telecommunications policy tool in state ownership. Telephony policy should not be bogged down, I agree with that. It must be in continuous development. Closely no matter how up-to-date we try to be, a quick get in the way. Looking ahead in telecommunications policy is demanding. But anyway, it's surprising how fast some spin operations are coming, and how they're coming. I've looked at the election number of Telecom Revy from August 1997. The current head of the Transport Committee, Magnus Stangeland, was tougher than I was in his opinions. He was ‘lived for the privatisation of Telenor’. He said this was a ‘state responsibility’. Just under two years ago, the Center Party was terrified of privatization, and it was not just Stangeland. In new Cartel No. 6 from 1997 we can read what Anne Enger Lahnstein wrote: ‘It is important to ensure the popular governance of key social institutions and infrastructures such as Telenor, Post and NSB. Therefore, SP was opposed to the formation of AS and special-law companies.’ And now they're in for merger and partial privatization. This is less than two years ago. They give away the last pieces of ownership control. There is a great political leap from standing with RV and actually criticizing SV for being too market liberal, not to talk about the criticism of the Workers' Party for their lack of will to rule, to now almost end up in Right Prison. It is not quite easy to get wise on the Christian People's Party either. Their spokeswoman in the previous period, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, was referred to in that issue by Telecom Revy: ‘The party is in the process of Telenor being a 100 per cent state owned company, but Grimstad still opens the door to joy: – If it should be for all future purposes, I have no fascist response to that.’ For all future – it is less than two years for the Christian People's Party! When the Storting last autumn took a decision on the principle of partial privatisation in the budgetary agreement between the Centre, the Advance Party and the Right, there was really no majority in this Chamber for privatisation. The Centre sold its position in the telecommunications policy to get the budget into port, as it has sold away — at cheap sales — a number of its positions. In SV we have two tools in telecommunications policy. There are regulations through laws, regulations and concessions, and ownership through state-wide Telenor. Let it be clear that we also see that regulation has become a more and more central theme, because in a tough market Telenor must also adapt to the market. Ownership management has become less important, and regulation has become more important. But we see then no reason to give away the other means of action, ownership. Some people are doing percentages of government involvement in the new company, but it is uninteresting. We're starting at 40 pst, we're sub-privatizing and going down to 33.4 pst. - I guess so. Furthermore, it is open to further sale to 25.5 p.m., and a decision in this Chamber, or in the parliament, will also terminate this contract of intent once it has been decided to do so. The Swedes may quickly need some money and find it beneficial to sell themselves out completely, or the central government may resell some principles in order to reach a budgetary settlement with the Right and the Advance Party – and then the state is out! But anyway, government ownership really requires 100 p.p., so ownership management is already missing today. What worries me most is the infrastructure – today we are merging and privatising the telecommunications network, the motorways themselves and the highways of Tele-Norway. For me, it is important that the whole country has access to a telecommunications network that has a quality and a price that is equivalent. These are framework conditions for business and housing. Or to repeat Magnus Stangeland: ‘We must have infrastructure and it must be a State responsibility.’ I had hoped that the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties would find the idea of a state-owned network company, where Telenor's network, the railway network and Statnett were part of a common company, interesting. I want to show that a few years ago, such a proposal as we presented at the time, was sent to the Government, because the Workers' Party found it interesting to look into it. I think it ended in a drawer, that nothing has happened to the proposal that was submitted. I have with some wonder followed the bulk of the population who have run a large-scale game about an IT centre at Fornebu, because it was to lay the groundwork for Norway to assert itself internationally. Personally, I feel that Otto Jespersen is the one who's best taken the IT cameras on the grain, but I guess it can't be quoted here, because then I'm clubbed. Now the same majority – with a shoulder draw – adopts a merger that is not decided, neither in terms of management nor activity, for example: location of activities such as the Internet, mobile telephony and satellite technology. Is it not remarkable that the majority is not concerned with areas where Norway is currently at the international front, but is only concerned about becoming a magnet on something we do not yet have? But today – because I don't believe in anything under during the day – we adopt merger and privatisation, and the proposal for a network company falls out. Then the regulatory arrangements become even more important than before. Tormod Hermansen said to Svenska Dagbladet on January 25th this year: «Everyone should know that Telia-Telenor will be operated on full market terms. Those who invest money in the company need not be afraid that we will conduct any regional policy,...» It is clear that this company should operate in the same way as other telecommunications companies. That's the undefiled truth. A number of central politicians have come to the arena to fire-fighting, for true statements are often very unpleasant. In the future, we cannot pursue rural policy through ownership, only through the regulatory regime. That's the truth, no matter what the center parties say today. The question then arises: who has the will and ability to pursue a regulatory policy that is targeted, where one can use instruments and not just hope? The disaster is that I feel that it doesn't have the center government. I disagree with the Workers' Party in the merger, but the Workers' Party knows at least what forces they work against. They know that intentions don't mean anything. Should the country have an equivalent offer, the rules for a market must also be in place. The Right Party and the Advance Party have also today demanded the cost of business and households due to late liberalisation, and I also want to make a little comment on that. It's a wonderful sight. Although Norway has a small market and an impossible geography, we have good and cheap telecommunications services throughout the country. It is precisely because liberalisation has not come quickly with us, but step by step. It has been possible to take some political action, both regulatory and through the ownership of Telenor, and therefore we have cheap and good services across the country. Nevertheless, the Right and Advance Party complain. What surprises me is that now the centre parties have a reluctance to the governance mechanisms and only have a profitable hope that the market will be able to offer equivalent offers and prices across the country. Then they kind of have a bad memory! Don't the center parties remember what they said two years ago? Don't they believe in Tormod Hermansen, who told the new company not to pursue district policy? The centre parties have shown that Telenor has development plans. Yes, but it is the newly merged, partially privatised company that will, if necessary, do the job, and the company does the part of the job that it finds economically profitable – maritime! For us in SV, it is important to ensure the results. It is also important to allocate costs to actors in such a way that no individual actors should be required to bear the burden, while others are only shying away from the flow. For this reason, it is important to move on with action now – action that commits! [[The President clubs]] I thought I was going to get an addition so I had to clear up a manifest misunderstanding, but...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1127	It's going to be a line chord change, without any addition in the first place, at least.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1130	My good friend, the representative Myrvoll, has many thoughts in his head at once, and now I'm going to let him have the opportunity to elaborate some of these thoughts. SV wants a state-owned network company. We know that much of the production in the telecommunications sector is in the web itself. We also know that competition between the different networks will increase, and that what is now Telenor's network will face increasing competition in the most profitable areas of the country. Is it not SV afraid that an isolated state-owned network company will be left with little traffic in the most profitable areas, and with an activity mainly linked to the transmission of traditional telephony in areas not covered by competing broadband networks, while private networks make money in profitable areas without contributing to the operation of the telecommunications network in less profitable areas? How will the Left Party prevent such a development? I also have no idea how the Socialist Left will finance the development of a state-owned network. Socialist Left Party can't believe that private network owners will be left with profits when we get a lot of money by keeping the state network technically upgraded? This won't be a good solution. The danger is great that the districts will be the losers, and that we will have a telecommunications network that is not technologically upgraded. I assume that this is a development that the Socialist Left will not sit and watch. How, then, is the Socialist Left Party going to prevent this exactly?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1139	My good friend and choir call, the representative of Røtweg – it is we two who are the crew members of the committee, the ones with the longest speed – said that I had many thoughts, and it is clear that sometimes it will be difficult to organize many thoughts for those of us who have a hard time for it. What surprised me a little bit is the perspective you have on the state. The telecommunications network is funded by all users in the country who have contributed to paying these services which have gradually become more reasonable and reasonable, so that this is initially a joint ownership. If the State has some responsibility for this network and likes to connect it to the other state networks that are also involved in the transmission of telecommunications services, such as the railway network and the State network, there is no interest in using and paying for the use of this network, and therefore it becomes a network that is uninteresting in a competitive situation, while if it is part of the merged sub-privatised company, it is an interesting network. I can't quite see that perspective. I think that such a state-owned online company can actually also play a role and be interesting for the telecommunications market. I do not see it so negatively, and neither did the Workers' Party when they sent over this proposal a few years ago. This proposal did not have the Workers' Party so long to look at because it was a government change. I wonder if they looked at it before they left the government offices, and I wonder if any of those who took over the government offices have looked at it. I guess you never get an answer to that, because there's a lot of papers in the drawers there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1150	We have heard earlier in line and now in the form of speeches how the Socialist Left continues to condemn the market and the private initiative. We heard how the representative Myrvoll used as an argument for state ownership and governance that the prices of telephony also sank under Televerket and Telenor. Does not the representative Myrvoll realize that the reason that Telewerk and Telenor, under state control, set prices down, perhaps just because they realized that there was no future in government governance and monopolies, and that what came – competition and private initiative – would be what was best for consumers? Is there any other reason Myrvoll knows, other than that it was just competition that last week that we had to eliminate the previous lines of division between the different places you call, so that it's now as cheap to call someone at the very other end of Norway as to the neighbor? Will the representative of Myrvoll also prevent free competition in other sectors in the future, so that the normal Norwegian consumer loses?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1159	In fact, I believe that the fear of state of the Progress Party is much, much greater than that of the Socialist Left Party. In fact, in a number of areas, I believe that the market is the right regulator, but if it should be, there must also be certain rules of the game. I don't believe in free competition, I believe in a competition that has certain rules to follow, so that it works. In the telecommunications sector, it is very important that there are such rules, if not, there will be different types of services and prices across the country. I think the old Telecom actually did a good job as a management company. Then AS – we voted against that, maybe we shouldn't have done that at the time – and also as a public limited company they have done a good job, long before the competitors came in and long before you saw the perspectives and how tough the competition would be. Prices went down and services improved. That's pretty amazing. In fact, the Progress Party should go along with itself and wonder how it is possible that a state company in a country that has been as difficult to expand as Norway can be nationwide and be among the cheapest and some of the best services in Europe. How could that be possible? In the ideological world of the Progress Party, it should actually be an absurdity, but I don't think they intend to spend time thinking through it, because they have some kind of phobia that means that everything the state does must be wrong. I think the market has its role to play, but I don't think the free market is necessarily the best. I think the market that has rules of play to follow is the market that can lead to a good society to live in, and that we get regulations that make us not get the very most negative results of free market forces. Because they don't take any human or social considerations. That's where we have to intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1170	The Socialist Left Party writes in its note on page 7 of the Inner East. S. No 197: ‘This member wishes to maintain Telenor AS as a wholly-owned state company, which has the possibility to enter into strategic alliances with other companies in order to strengthen itself in international competition.’ Firstly, I would like to challenge the representative Myrvoll on what he means by ‘strategic alliances’ in this remark. Isn't it a'strategic alliance' we're forming today? The Christian People's Party has great doubts about realism in this when reality today is that the market is deregulated. A whole-time small state-owned company in a deregulated market will face obstacles when it comes to finding strategic alliance partners. And the question is, how does SV want to facilitate it? The central parties regard strategic alliances as an absolute necessity in the market we are now in, and therefore advocate this partial privatisation merger. Finally, having the door open for development, as our representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad expressed himself, has in retrospect proved to be wise speech. But what SV is doing today is closing and locking the same door.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1189	Yes, one can have the door on fire, one can have it wide open, and then one can have swing doors that make one never get out – there are many kinds of door operations. When the representative Sahl tried to explain how right it was to have the door open in the election campaign two years ago, I just had to remind him that then there was a deregulated market, the exclusive right was gone, all that was gone. Nothing has happened in particular since the autumn of 1997 and until now in the field of telecommunications, but something has happened in the area of government policy: the Christian People's Party has been in government and must negotiate with the Right Party and the Advance Party – it has been new since August 1997. In August 1997, the Christian People’s Party said that one wanted Telenor to be a 100pst. State owned company, but that one was not sure if it would be for the future. So it is clear that there has been a new future when one is going to negotiate his principles and his policies! This has also been the case before telecommunications companies have concluded cooperation agreements and alliances of a different nature. I think that's what the new group is going to do, because it's operating with alliances, and that's the kind of strategic alliances I'm talking about. I believe that this small Telenor we have, which is large in Norway and which is actually good in some foreign areas, could have operated in such a world. I think the new company can do that too, but for me it's important to say that it's not necessarily so that everything that's good for Telenor and Telia is good for Norway. What is best for Norway? That's what's been my starting point for not wanting the merger. I don't think Telia and Telenor as a company will get any disadvantages from the merger, but I think Norway can get it, and I assume that Jan Sahl as a politician is concerned about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1200	In fact, I understand that there is one party that is having a bad time with itself today in this room, and that is SV. I have a great deal of understanding of that, because I have been involved in some debates in this room related to telecommunications policy, and SV has been good at trying to build alliances in politics with a view to maintaining what they have had as their primary desire, to preserve Telenor as a state-owned company. It has sometimes impressed me as to what they were basically doing, among other things. They also stood with the Center Party and some other parties in this Chamber. So I realize that today's disappointment is great, because it's kind of a total defeat. All of the friends with whom alliances had been built in the past have left SV today. What's interesting is essentially what alternative SV looks like. For that reward I'll give the party, they've been standing on a line that's clear and straightforward – we know where we've had them. There have probably been other parts in this room that have wandered more from side to side than exactly SV. But when SV now says that you go in to separate the web, it means – if you ask me at least – that you indirectly say that you don't want any aggregation. The web is, as I see it, of course, part of the valuation in the company, and I would think that if you made that decision, you had to go for a new round, and then I don't think you had a merger agreement. My question to SV is: What is it that SV wants with Telenor? Does SV think that Telenor can exist as a Norwegian company under the regime that is today and that the workplaces in Telenor are safer in that way than they are at the merger that we carry out today? The right answer to that is okay. But it could be very interesting to ask SV: what is the alternative?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1209	I have no doubt that the Right has a fairly good day today; they have had several good days in the field of telecommunications policy. Now we in SV have also changed and developed our policies, and I think that is very necessary – one can in a way not stand in the old positions in the field of telecommunications policy. We have also received criticism here in our time to be too market liberalist, etc. We're probably a little alone today, that's right. But we're not going to go into any kind of a hundred-year-old. When the company is merged, when the online proposal is down, we are very concerned about the types of regulatory attitudes that can be used to get this offer that we need across the country, at prices that are as equivalent as possible. That's our starting point when our primary things are downgraded. If I were to get what I wanted today, I would have maintained Telenor as a company. But at the same time, I would have looked at what was our proposal a few years ago, namely, cooperation between state broadcasters, in close connection with Telenor as a 100 pst. State owned company. That's not going to be the result, and that's why I'm now going to focus my attention on the future -- that's where most of us are going to live the rest of our lives, how long it's going to be. At least telepolitically, I believe that the Workers' Party and we have managed to come together in terms of the regulatory arrangements, and that is what is going to be significant in the future. We're not surprised that the Right is not quite there. On the other hand, I am surprised that three years ago the most steering controls were not included, and that was among other things. The center section, which had large rounds in this hall. I'm not going to count on that very much.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1218	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1221	Some people have said that today's development is faster than ever before. The first time I heard that, I had to think a little bit about it to understand what was really meant. As far as I can remember, evolution has always gone fast, from the first PC I saw, to the little multimedia PCs we have today, which are connected in a large global network. Personally, I had hoped that at the entrance of the year 2000 I had also had a flying car standing in the garage. In this way, progress may not have gone as fast as I had hoped. The issues we are debating today have an impact on the development and possibilities of telecommunications. Developments in the telecommunications sector have probably gone faster than anyone had imagined. The possibilities of technology are broadened and different media merge. The possibilities of this industry are great and will affect our whole way of life and work patterns. To a large extent, distance problems are reduced. It is no longer imperative to meet at work at noon. 8:00 a.m. every morning. We've been used to the fact that in Norway people have to move where they get work. Today we see a situation where we can live on one side of the country and work on the other. This provides an opportunity for all the good creativity and entrepreneurial spirit that exist in Norway to cooperate more closely and better. This can only be done if the possibilities are as good across the country. Today, there are several different actors building different forms of networks for the provision of data information. Market actors and research communities are launching different models and opportunities for the transmission of information. This extends from the traditional copper pipeline through fibre optics to satellite communications. If we imagine a world where there are satellites that transmit digital communications, we can say that today's telecommunications network has become hopelessly closed. This is a technology that runs in front of the state in many ways, it's a technology that runs in front of us politicians. That's why it makes no sense for us today to go into the details of the opportunities we have in the future. Our task must be to provide the framework for the development of telecommunications services in Norway. It is therefore good that a unanimous committee emphasises the importance of a good service offer throughout the country, and it is therefore essential that the majority in the Committee ask the Government to take the following into account: «All households and businesses throughout the country shall be ensured the possibility of connecting to a telecommunications infrastructure with a transmission capacity sufficient to make use of ever-new possibilities for electronic communications at acceptable prices.» This must be guaranteed by the Government by assessing different types of universal service obligations under concession terms. An upgrade to broadband capacity in all parts of the country shall take place in such a way that users in Norway may be in the forefront of international development. Today, we are going to take care of the position Norway has in the field of telecommunications. It's brain power we're going to live on in the future, and that's why this is a prerequisite for the further work of the state. My mother got a dispensation to get a phone when she was pregnant with my sister. Otherwise, it was a long wait. Last week I ordered a new mobile phone. It was unfortunately sold out, and I had to wait until Monday this week before I got it. Over the last few years, the use of mobile telephones has increased sharply. Only the use of the Internet has experienced a corresponding increase. The density of mobile phones is approaching strongly fixed network connectivity. However, it should be noted that Finland has already distributed licences for the next generation of high-speed mobile telephones. In this context, it is important that new telecommunications services are quickly introduced. It must be an objective to facilitate forward-looking telecommunications regulation and thus stimulate innovation and investment in Norway. I can see the future of the telecommunications industry. Norway’s opportunities are many and good. It's up to us to make sure that we put them into use and are still among the leading internationals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1243	There is certainly no other sector that has experienced such rapid developments as this sector in recent years. It is in the technological field, it is in the field of internationalisation, a change in markets and a restructuring of operators. The old telemonopoly had to fall. The monopoly and ownership were inappropriate to achieve our telecommunications policy objectives. Yes, we also saw how the monopoly was pressed and hollowed out in many areas. It was simply impossible to hold on to it if you never wanted to do that much. We had to go through regulatory means, law and regulation, so that we could keep up and achieve our telecommunications policy objectives. It understood all the political parties, with the exception of the Central Party, who in opposition fought against all necessary changes both in the telecommunications sector and in the postal sector. The argument was always concerned with districts and districts, and now they cannot even agree on a proposal to introduce universal service obligations. All they're reaching out to is that it should be reconsidered. Rather, a maximum price scheme for high-speed services can be included. The merger of Telenor and Telia is probably right to ensure a Nordic player that is internationally competitive. When one sees the employment, the growth, the value creation and the development that Telenor has brought with it both directly and indirectly in this country, it seems important that we still have a big player here in the Nordic region. But the regulatory regime is what is decisive for a good telecommunications supply of infrastructure and telecommunications services at the same price throughout the country. The use of ICT, including telecommunications services, is increasing in all industries as well as in the public sector – yes, where communication becomes an increasingly important part of the whole business. It is obvious that an enterprise will not establish itself or remain where the provision of services is more expensive or poorer than in other areas – then the enterprise is simply not competitive. In other words, an equivalent supply of land is a decisive regional policy element, a decision for housing and value creation, and that we can use the whole country. Then we have to take advantage of the concession obligation. The working party would extend the concession obligations, which the Government will limit to operators with a certain market share. We need to have a concession arrangement in order to impose conditions on the actors that guarantee equal, nationwide services at the lowest and as low a price as possible. The obligation to provide both services and high-speed networks/broadband networks becomes important, yes, it is also important to provide a universal service code for what may come forward in this sector of new infrastructure and services. In this dynamic area, one must not be locked up in today's technology, but also take the height of what had to come. A fair competition requires either that we have a common operator financing, or that the state buys these wretched services in the same way as one does in other transport sectors, such as rail, aviation and postal services. Joint player financing through fund provisions, I think, should be a way of doing this. But I'm recording that the Government is now very much sustained with regard to putting this system into use. Whatever, there has to be a social commitment to secure network services across the country. Some district activities are well away from the main network with a so-called long access network. We've seen examples of businesses, etc. Travel businesses, not having access to ISDN networks, just because they have doctors too far away. These must be able to access the network on equal terms with the others. It will cost disproportionately much for each enterprise, but will cost very little for actors in a joint financing. We see that competition develops products and services for the benefit of the customer, but competition must prevail without a regulatory framework that governs the business, competition will only benefit the profitable customers. Who cares about the others? That is why we must actively use the maximum price scheme to counter the distortion in price, and I do not think that we are going to avoid an actor's financing of our supplies because of that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1262	The telecommunications sector in Norway is undergoing major changes — mostly to the positive. The Norwegian telecommunications sector has gradually become more liberalised over time, which the Progress Party considers to be entirely positive, precisely because this has led to cheaper and better telecommunications services being provided here in Norway. As late as last week, we could see that Telenor wiped out the old distinctions between distance and near-tariff, so it would be as cheap to call the friend of Reinsvoll as to uncle of Alta. It's district policy! And these are price reductions that will have further ring-fenced effects in the market, and price competition will only increase and persist. It is the constant deregulation and globalisation of the telecommunications market that has led to increasing competition and the corresponding price decline. As has now been the case, Telenor has been too small in an international competitive perspective to be able to compete on international markets. Therefore, the merging of Telenor and Telia would be positive in an international competition perspective. It implies the creation of a telecommunications company with such an impact that it can assert itself on the international market. The new merged company should give priority to research and development efforts. According to St.meld No. 24 for 1998-99 we see that telecommunications companies have enormous opportunities to provide end-users with services based on advanced technology. The merged company also has opportunities to become prominent in the Scandinavian industry. But one of the hallmarks of the merger between Telia and Telenor is that the comments of the Competition Authority must be followed in order not to get out of hand with the positive developments in the telecommunications competition. In fact, there are negative aspects to the merger by reducing domestic competition, a fact that the proposition does not, however, address so carefully. The Competition Authority has indicated that the new company should sell Telia’s activities in Norway. This is important and it must be a prerequisite for the supervisory recommendation to be followed. It is with satisfaction that we have noticed that by the year 2000, the new company will be introduced and partially privatised, as well as that each respectable country sells itself down to a share of 33,4 p.m. It is still good that countries can choose to sell down to 25.5 pst. The number 25.5 pst. results from the conclusion by the States of a 16-year agreement that the combined ownership of the two States should not be less than 51 pst, so that they retain State ownership. That's too bad! It is not a State task to be the owner of a telecommunications company. State owners should continue to sell below 25.5. p.m. and aim to sell their entire stock. It will be in line with developments taking place internationally. It is also regrettable that the shareholder agreement states that no investor/investor group should be able to acquire more than 3 pst. of the shares in the sale of government shares. The Progress Party will warn against such restrictions and restrictions in the same field, such as aiming to ensure that enterprises in the media, telecommunications or information technology are not able to acquire more than 1 pst. of the shares. Such restrictions hamper the ability of the new company to conclude alliances and mergers further, while inhibiting the further development of the shares in the new company. Until all the shares are sold out, it would be right and appropriate for the Ministry of Economic Affairs to take over the management of the State's shares in the merged company so that we do not have the double role of holding both ownership and control functions by the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1279	The President gives the word to Inge Myrvoll, except for the order of the speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1282	In the name of the debate, I forgot to address the proposal put forward by SV in the Innst. S. No 196. It's taken up by this!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1287	Inge Myrvoll has then taken up the proposal he himself has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1290	Norway today appears to be one of the most advanced telecommunications countries in the world, with a modern and well-developed infrastructure, a wide range of services of high quality and at low prices. Given the situation for some years ago and our natural constraints, I would say it is impressive what has been achieved by progress in this sector in a relatively short time. Illustrative is the very favourable price development of telecommunications. In ten years, for example, the distance tariff has been reduced to one tenth, and I note with great satisfaction that we have recently achieved what has been a strong political desire, namely the introduction of a single charging zone for telephony for the whole country. The results we have achieved in the telecommunications sector are a lot of cleverness and effort behind them, and it will certainly require more of us to be able to further develop the sector in a way that meets wider policy objectives. Ensuring the main telecommunications policy objectives in a situation of open international competition is not least raising new regulatory challenges, which we are witnessing in the Single European Act that are being addressed today. However, the situation also poses challenges for the state that owns and facilitates industrial development, to which the current proposal to merge Telenor and Telia, in my opinion, is a correct answer. In Norway, there has been a broad welcome on the step-by-step liberalisation that resulted in the opening up of competition in all areas of the telecommunications market from 1 January 1998. The development of Norwegian telecommunications policy has been characterised by a willingness to find balanced and practical solutions — and not principles for the sake of principles. The big message presented by the Government is, as I see it, the result of the same attitude: that we want to put results in the form of increasingly better and cheaper telecommunications services to consumers and businesses across the country in focus. The management of the telecommunications market is now ensured by general rules and individual concessions such as: has the task of ensuring the quality of basic high-quality telecommunications services for all households and enterprises at the lowest possible price and of facilitating effective competition. Other important elements are ensuring equal access to limited resources, as well as safeguarding consumer rights, privacy and essential security requirements in the telecommunications network. As mentioned at the outset, Norway’s geography, topography, climate and population patterns give us initially higher costs than countries we usually compare with. Nevertheless, today, in international terms, we have a very low price level and a good range of telecommunications services across the country. Developments in Norway are not backward for even those countries that, at least on paper, were previously out of liberalising their markets. As the Communication shows, we have already seen significant results from the introduction of full competition in both the provision of transmission capacity, the provision of new services and price reductions to both consumers and businesses. I think it's wrong of the Right Party and the Advance Party to stop from here that their vision has turned out to be fascist. In my view, precisely the timing of full competition is a crucial success criterion. However, we need to be vigilant to lean back if we are to ensure that Norway continues to be in first place in terms of price and quality and the ability to use telecommunications services. Telecommunications is a fundamental prerequisite for participation in the information society and an increasingly important input for Norwegian business and its competitiveness. It is essential that the entire country and all social teams have access to an adequate and equivalent offer of telecommunications networks and services at acceptable prices. In addition to the general legislation, Telenor is required in its concession to provide basic telecommunications services to all households throughout the country. The Ministry of Transport will continuously assess the imposed nationwide services in the light of developments and our international commitments. Competition is a key instrument for achieving the telecommunications policy objectives. Teleregulation is designed to facilitate effective competition. The Communication now presented assesses a number of different measures to further stimulate competition. There is a close link between this and the Grand Duchy’s request for the Government to draw up a plan for the accelerated deployment of a future telecommunications network with sufficient bandwidth and capacity to ensure that all households and businesses throughout the country are able to use ever-increasing opportunities for communication. I am pleased that in this communication we can conclude that the market operators appear to be able to offer the necessary transmission capacity on a commercial basis. This regulation thus works as intended, by establishing framework conditions which contribute overall to a development at lower prices and to the development of sufficient capacity in the telecommunications network in line with demand, without the need for direct intervention by the authorities. The supply side is thus maintained by the market itself and by the imposed nationwide services. Public efforts should therefore be limited to the demand side. However, this will be an important contribution to stimulating the spread of services in different parts of the country and the ability to use new services. The lack of transmission capacity appears to lie primarily in the access networks, but these will, as we can see, be upgraded and supplemented. The Ministry of Transport wants to facilitate the use of existing infrastructure and will facilitate effective competition. At the same time, we place considerable emphasis on motivating investment in infrastructure and ensuring the safety and quality of the telecommunications network. As stated in the Communication, we believe that we have found a solution that can address all these concerns in a good way by focusing on the development of existing access products together with the introduction of other incentives. Of particular importance is the introduction of permanent pre-election, where the first phase was completed by 1 June. Together with the introduction of number portability, this will be of great importance for the ability of other actors to compete with Telenor. The Communication further states that the Ministry of Transport proposes to continue the system of maximum prices for voice telephony and leased lines. On the other hand, it is not considered appropriate today to introduce a fund scheme for the allocation of the net cost of Telenor’s voice telephony offer to the whole country. With regard to the proposal to separate the network part from Telenor's other activities, I refer to the strong arguments, in my opinion, that are given against such a solution, and that I am pleased that a majority judge in the same way. Another issue that has been repeatedly addressed is the distinction between the management of Telenor ownership and the exercise of regulatory tasks. Here, there are clear arguments both for and against. However, the government believes that it is unfortunate to change this before we have completed the merger of Telenor and Telia and the stock market introduction and sale to the parity of ownership has been achieved. After this, I will consider moving the exercise of the state's ownership role to a department other than the department responsible for telecommunications regulation. A merger of Telenor and Telia opens up wide and exciting industrial policy perspectives. Given the technological and market developments in what is now an open international telecommunications market, I have no doubt that Nordic consolidation is very sensible in industry. It is therefore with great satisfaction that I note that the proposal to merge Telenor and Telia brings together a broad political majority. Both Telenor and Telia are efficient companies with advanced technology and infrastructure and a wide range of services. The prices of telecommunications services in the two countries are among the lowest in the world. At the same time, the two companies have actively exploited new market opportunities in the field of telecommunications and IT and have taken advantage of their competences in a targeted international effort. Telenor and Telia are therefore essentially slightly more than traditional telecommunications companies. However, with rapid and extensive structural changes taking place on the telecommunications market, a stronger business foundation is needed to ensure continued high growth and value creation. In this context, the government considers it important to maintain a strong telecommunications company with national anchoring in order to ensure the nationwide provision of modern and advanced telecommunications and IT services at low prices. The establishment of a strong Nordic telecommunications group with a size and competitiveness that promotes cost-effectiveness and innovation will best facilitate this. This will bring commercial benefits, increased competitiveness and greater value to owners. Furthermore, a common Nordic operator will have significantly greater opportunities to exploit the potential for expansion and value creation in the international telecommunications market. The new company will have the prerequisites to further develop a position as a leading provider of communication and information services in northern Europe. From this point of view, the ambition is to expand internationally to become a leading actor in Europe and globally in areas where the company has or can develop competitive advantages. I emphasise that a combination of Telenor and Telia can be expected to provide societal efficiency gains in terms of reduced costs for the benefit of both other service providers and end-users. However, the merger of the companies may also lead to a deterioration of competition in the Norwegian market. The members of the Committee from the Right and the Advance Party point out that this problem has not been addressed in the proposal. The reason for this is not that the Government takes a light view of this problem but that one has found it appropriate to await the examination of the case by competition law before considering the implementation of any competition policy measures. In addition, I would like to point out that more general competition issues have been assessed in the submitted notification. Once again, I would like to state that the merger of Telenor and Telia and the subsequent partial privatisation of the new company do not entail any changes in the scope of the imposed social obligations. The new company will be subject to similar social obligations in Norway to those imposed on Telenor today, on the basis of current Norwegian legislation. This applies, inter alia, to: the obligation to provide nationwide telecommunications services and the performance of emergency tasks. Changes in the scope of the social obligations imposed could also be made by amendments to the Norwegian legislation. The agreement to merge the companies satisfies, in my opinion, the assumption of equivalence and balance between the parties. Although Sweden will initially have a larger holding, the agreement is designed to give the parties equal influence in the new company from day one. The Norwegian and Swedish owners shall initially have equal voting rights in the general meeting of the new company and shall be entitled to appoint equal members of the board of directors of the new company. The right to appoint the Chairperson shall rotate between countries. The Norwegian owner shall be entitled to appoint the first Executive Director of the new company, while the Swedish owner shall have a corresponding right to appoint the first two Deputy Directors. The head office of the new company is to be located in Sweden, while an international centre is to be added to Norway. The allocation of other activities shall be based on business principles and within the framework of specific integration principles. The aim of the integration principles is to establish a general framework and guidelines for the merger of the companies, inter alia: in order to achieve a balance between the companies in terms of influence, management and location. The prerequisites for doing this should be good. The Government attaches great importance to a long-term and predictable telecommunications policy. I would also like to point out that in national regulation, we have put a great deal of emphasis on achieving technology-neutral regulation. Where possible, we have gone beyond most other countries on some points, especially mobile phones. However, technological and market developments make regular regulatory review necessary for the purpose of adjustments. I have noticed the proposals of both the minority and the majority in the Committee on further regulatory and other public actions. For me, it is natural to include these in the review that will be carried out by the legislation in the future. However, I would like to point out that a more detailed assessment of a maximum price regime for high-speed services is necessary before this may be introduced. I can mention that the telecommunications authority has already carried out work on calling out third-generation mobile systems in relation to what has been suggested in the past. We now see an allocation in the second half of the year 2000. Furthermore, in the near future there will be an opportunity to obtain probationary licences. The size will be further briefed before the announcement takes place. I would also like to point out that during the autumn, the Ministry of Transport aims to promote a roll-out message on different aspects by providing other actors with access to the mobile networks of mobile operators. In the EU, the first steps have now been taken on what is called ‘Review 1999’, i.e. an overall review of the regulatory framework with a view to adapting it to future technological and market developments. We will continue to actively monitor this process and also try to influence the legislation to take account of Norwegian circumstances as much as possible. I want to point out that the government-designated sample that was set down to look at the significance of the so-called convergence phenomenon, that is. the technological and market fusion of the broadcasting, telecommunications, media and IT sectors will be scheduled to give up one of the first days. Together with our own experience with the legislation so far, and the facts both the majority and the minority in the position have pointed out, this will form the basis for our own review of the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1352	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1355	I have on several occasions highlighted the importance of the fiber cable for us. At the same time, I have said that there is enough time to send the salmon and timber through the fibre cable. That's why we're still going to be totally dependent on road, rail and sea transport to get our products out. But the fiber cable is becoming more and more important to sell the products. The previous council was very concerned with everyday examples, and I'll try to give some examples of real life: In the case of Hög, a company at Røros – by the way, an excellent company that produces, among other things. chairs – plingering an order on screen from Düsseldorf, takes five days until the finished product is delivered in Germany. Without IT, we can imagine that there had been a longer delivery time, and thus it would have meant fewer trusts in the European market. In the case of our winter sports sites, for example: around Dovreberg, they have become more and more dependent on reaching out with their marketing and telling about, among other things. the snow conditions of its customers. People order and travel, especially in winter, according to the conditions there and then, and they order via the web. Without the net, you could probably say that there had been fewer people in our ski slopes. How long will the Council then consider whether such areas should have full access to tomorrow's telecommunications services at an acceptable price? This will be crucial for the development of these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1364	The Council of State has a feeling that this question is one of the most debated today, and where there has been a big difference between the proposals of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party on the one hand and the Centre Parties and the Right on the other. From the Council of State, I can't see the big difference. I must be allowed to quote what is in the Workers' Party's proposal. It says, well, here's what it says. ‘In order to ensure such accessibility, the Government is asked to introduce universal service obligations through the terms of the concession to operators of public telecommunications networks with significant market power.’;» Here we go. «The government is asked to assess the detailed arrangements for such universal service obligations, including capacity, extension time and coverage. Measures to ensure delivery are also assessed by general telecommunications legislation.» So you've left the government to evaluate these forms. And then what do the right and the center parts say: ‘In order to ensure that households and businesses throughout the country have good access to telecommunications infrastructure with sufficient transmission capacity to make use of ever-increasing communication opportunities, the Government is asked to assess universal service obligations in the concession terms of public telecommunications network operators with significant market power.’ That is the assessment that is being carried out on an ongoing basis. The Ministry of Transport is a telecommunications regulatory authority. This will be closely followed up, the assessment will be carried out continuously both on the fibre network and in the other regulatory areas, so that my position on the representative, Mr Røtweg, is entirely satisfactory, but I cannot see that there is a basis for the big debate that has been going on today on the difference between these two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1390	President! To clarify a manifest misunderstanding, it is important for the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1397	Schjøtt-Pedersen is given the opportunity to come back in a separate line, so in that case it must be an obvious misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1403	If the Council of State sees it as a similarity between the proposals of the Central Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and Right, and the Workers' Party and the SV, then there is an obvious misunderstanding. There is no doubt that the proposals of the Workers' Party and the SV provide a clarification of the principle of universality. But of course, it's the executive authorities that determine how much capacity it should be, the progress, the percentage coverage...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1410	Now, in the President's opinion, a line is being drawn!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1413	while the question relating to the second proposal is whether it should be introduced at all. Let it be clear for the further debate in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1418	Does the Council of State want the word?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1421	I must respond, since it was said to be a manifest misunderstanding. The difference consists in who is to impose the obligation, whether it is the Stortinget or the Government via regulatory authority, the Ministry of Transport. And there's the difference, in no other area, in terms of content.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1426	The President feels that a line change has now been made, and hopes that there will be no progress in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1430	The State Council, Mr Færvoll, expressed its satisfaction at the fact that all in that country are guaranteed fundamental rights to equivalent telecommunications services. Even if you have been in the area before, and the Council of State has tried to answer, there really has not been any good, complete answer to what I am now going to ask for. As I mentioned earlier, further development of the fibre network will cost between 10 billion and 15 billion kroner – some have expressed up to 20 billion kroner. Not everyone in the country has this offer today. As far as access to the fibre network is concerned, there are differences in densely populated areas and areas. Therefore, I ask the Council of State: if it is the case that the State should cost this expansion, when will everyone have equal access to the same services? If this is not to be costed by the State, in what way will the Council of State achieve its objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1442	What the Council of State sees as positive in the proposal of the Government Parties and the Right is that it opens up the possibility of assessing at all times the need to introduce universal service obligations. After the Workers' Party's proposal, without me interpreting it too far, an obligation is introduced here and now, whether or not there is a need for universal service. That's the difference. I am of the opinion that we should not introduce something that is not necessary. If the need is met, there is no intention to impose an obligation. This is to be assessed continuously by the Government, through the Ministry of Transport as Regulatory Authority, and takes the signals that are clearly majority in Stortinget today will send to the Government and to the Ministry. So ask Stensaker where to get the money from if he's going to impose universal service obligations across the country. The Council of State can't afford to cover that. In such a situation, the Council of State must come back to the Grand Duchy in order to deepen it to the extent that it incurs State costs. To the extent that it does not entail State costs, which I will long believe will happen, through, for example. to introduce a universal service where necessary, there would be no reason to submit it, either in a budget or in a single case. My conclusion, therefore, is that in so far as what is today referred to as a clear signal from a majority in the Stortinget, costs to which the Stortinget must grant money, it will be presented as a matter of its own.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1451	There is no doubt that there are three major and important issues we are dealing with today. Of course, the aggregation of Telia and Telenor is not, from a competitive point of view, entirely trouble-free. It is obvious that we are now getting a heavy giant into the telecommunications market in Norway in the form of one company. In this context, concentration in the future must focus primarily on how to regulate this market with a view to getting good competition, fair conditions, in order to stimulate the lowest possible prices for consumers. That's what we're looking for. It is true, as several in the Chamber have claimed, that the prices of telephone calls in Norway have fallen. They have fallen dramatically since 1 January 1998. In fact, they've been halved. But consumers, those who sit at home and pay the phone bill, have not received half of their phone bill. For what has happened, the phone calls have fallen in price, but the subscription price has increased dramatically. Today we have the highest subscription price in the entire OECD area. Is that an explanation of this? Is it an explanation that we have a system in Norway that allows us to praise the subscription so that we can keep what is really the great source of revenue in the telecommunications sector, namely the right to the sum? In Sweden, a maximum price of subscriptions has been introduced – without our being able to imitate them in all respects – to prevent such a development, where the person who is de facto in the monopoly can tighten up the prices of subscriptions and press the prices of the telephone service itself or the summary to prevent competition. My question to the Council of State is simply: does he see any problem in the fact that we have had a development in which we have had a fall in costs that consumers have not shared, while Telenor has had large revenues related to subscription growth?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1464	I understand the issue. I understand the challenges. I agree that to the extent that this system is perceived as being incorrect and discriminatory in relation to other countries, there is reason to consider it on an ongoing basis. I think so too, among other things. Telenors and others are doing things on an ongoing basis. However, the explanation that this situation exists is that Telenor has carried out a rebalancing. I have reason to believe that things are being developed, things are happening. I therefore have no reason to believe that Norway will be in a different situation during a period than the other comparable countries are. Now you should remember that the development of the web in Norway has, as I said in my post, been challenging. It's cost me a lot of money. Investments shall also be balanced, and the total assessment and balance between subscriptions and costs related to the telephone itself must find their solution in the long term. I don't want to go into the company's internal assessments – it would be unnatural for the Council of State to do so from the Parliament's pulpit – but leave to the board and management of the company to make these assessments on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1475	For once, I'm going to try to move on to a post from the Progress Party, from the representative Stenzaker, and talk a little about the theme "When the networks get long". The investment plans that exist, as I see it, go to extending the transport network, so that the fibre nodes – language is a terrible instrument of power; ‘fibrenodes’, ‘cost-effectiveness’ and ‘innovation’ are quite alienating – become closer to the user, the top 200 – 300 metres. Such an investment plan is intended to amount to NOK 10-20 billion. What we initially know is that part of the plan will be less profitable. Some of the customers are located in places where there is a long distance between them, and it's a costly investment to get close by. Then I think it's very defensive of a center government, which has previously been very concerned with the equivalence, to wait and see if it's necessary through regulatory measures, by imposing, perhaps taking the cost of ensuring that the equality comes – not in retrospect, but when the expansion is to happen. I think it's very defensive, and I wonder, are these completely new tones – government tones? Would it not have been entirely different in a debate on telecommunications policy a few years ago with a workers' party government if it had such a defensive attitude to the regional profile of investment? Because, as Hermansen says, they're not going to run a district policy. And you can't wait for a company in this market to do that. It's our responsibility to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1485	It's one thing I haven't realized, and it's not that subscribers and media have been more concerned about what's happened this June, and that's going to happen in July, and that's the biggest change in many years, that's equal telephone prices all over the country. Many of us have been on the barricades for years to get it done, and now it's implemented. And then it has drowned in all the other debate. But that's really the sensational, and not least how fast it's come. What we would have said if we had been in a different position than the government position, I should not predict. But I think the assessment would have been the same: not to lay down on any defensive line, but we would have asked, is there a need to introduce regulations? If the answer is yes, to impose universal service, we would probably be able to get on the same line as the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. But if we're unsure, or the answer is no, I don't understand that in this room we're going to oblige the government to impose an obligation that we don't know if it's necessary. Rather, it should be said that this is an obligation of the Government, we have regulatory authority, the Ministry of Transport must follow continuously and evaluate in the context of concession award. And if necessary, it can be imposed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1492	I am pleased that, unlike many other speakers, the Council of State clearly acknowledged the difference in reality between introducing and assessing universality. I am more surprised that the Council of State does not include in its assessment of the need for the company that is most relevant in this context, now changes the form of ownership and will no longer be under full state control. I am also surprised that the Government, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party say that the expansion planned now – let's say that an estimated 80 pst. Norway’s population — is satisfactory. That's interesting. However, my point is that we have a big discussion about where the company is going to put its different business areas, and that is very important. My question is how the Government will facilitate us to have framework conditions that can help ensure that as much of the development activity as possible, as much as possible of the innovation, takes place in Norway. What kind of perspective does the Government have on the future development of information and communication technology research, as the Research Council has so strongly pointed out? What will the Council of State do to follow up more concretely where it might seem that we are in the process of falling short of the telecommunications regulatory regime? I record with interest his emphasis on the statement that he will take his views with him and give them weight. More and more concretely, I note that the Council of State in the post says that it will return to the issue of licences for third-generation mobile telephony in the second half of the year 2000. What is the reason for the need to spend another 1-1 1⁄2 years to get a call, which Finland has already made, in a situation where time is an important competitive factor for operators and for industry?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1501	I thought that the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen would go up to the pulpit and decorate the government and be very happy that we managed to speed this up over a year and thus say that we will do this as early as next year. With regard to which things are not in place in relation to accelerating it further, I need to investigate a little bit more closely and to conduct conferences, but it has to do with practical aspects of the matter. There's the greatest willingness to do it, it's the ability to do it. But we have to deal with the world of reality, and then I hope that those who were not happy for 2001 will be very happy for 2000, that we really managed to save one year. In connection with the opening of Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, I must stress that it is in the position, in the motion for a resolution of the Labour Party and the SV, 'all households'. This must apply to the whole country, because 'all households' must include the whole country, I assume, plus what is in the decision. That's what we're going to take into account when we're going to impose the terms of the concession and consider whether it might be appropriate to propose or determine universal service. I can't answer that today. I am not sure that the need is present, but if the need is there, the Government must assess it. When it comes to facilitating more business areas to Norway, I think I need a little more than the two minutes allocated. We will provide what is reasonable from the public, but remember that this is a commercial agreement between the companies. They must make agreements through the board on how the placement should be, and there we have special rules on how this should be done. If someone comes back to this in line context, I can explain it more specifically.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1510	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1513	Most of it may have been said in this debate, but among other things. the telecommunications infrastructure and its development deserve a thorough debate in Stortinget. For this, key issues are Norwegian transport. In line with road, rail, air and sea transport, the telecommunications networks and traffic in these are crucial for the development of our country, including in the transport of timber and fish, which I was in a line to the Council of State. In recent years and up to now, I have actually believed that almost a total increase agreed on the following: that it is a political task to provide safe and good transport infrastructure throughout the country, and that all types of infrastructure should be seen in the context. These assumptions in Norwegian transport policy have now been broken. By not supporting the proposals of the Workers' Party and SV on high-speed telecommunications services, the Centre Parties, the Right and the Progress Party ensure that a significant part of the transport infrastructure is removed from political and social governance and left to the market on a commercial basis. Now that Telenor is paired up with Telia and essential parts are privatized, we have a new telecommunications reality. And in line with common practice, the center parties have difficulty dealing with this reality. In the past, they were strongly opposed to everything that tasted of the market, while, on the other hand, in one of the most central areas of transport, they will leave companies to direct development on a commercial basis. I am deeply disappointed and concerned about how the needs of the districts for high-speed telecommunications services are to be met. However, I am aware that Telenor is now saying that they will deploy the high-speed network with sufficient capacity. But there is no guarantee of this. Will the new telecommunications company really do it in five years? We don't know the answer. But at least we can't take the chance that this doesn't happen. We cannot take the chance that households and businesses in District Norway do not have an adequate offer. That is why we need to use new instruments and already make demands. There is no help in doing as the center parties: sit down with your hands in captivity and wait. No, we have to make demands now, not when it's too late. I would like to ask the centre parties about the following: How long have they been going to sit and wait and assess – in a sector where technological innovations change the assumptions for overnight? Do these parties not see that technological developments are just going so fast that if political governance is to be real, must we be in the forefront of development? Now that government parties are opposed to ensuring that all households and businesses have access to a high-speed telecommunications network that allows them to be ahead of developments in the world, and against the obligation to provide services and to introduce a maximum price for high-speed telecommunications services, there is not much talk of using the whole country again. Then it just becomes empty words and useless rhetoric that lie back. When the Right and Advance Party also opposes ensuring that industry has access to high-speed telecommunications infrastructure enabling Norwegian business to be ahead of development and to gain a competitive advantage, there is every reason to stop. Now I'm not going to wonder what's the reason why the Right Party and the Advance Party are joining forces with the centre parties and making the future of business in Norway more difficult. However, it must be difficult, especially for the Right, to defend a position that violates what business needs and that violates the principle that the Right often points out in terms of transport infrastructure, namely that it is the public responsibility to develop roads, precisely in order to give industry good framework conditions. Why, then, is right-wing against securing business the telecommunications infrastructure they need? This is becoming a mystery. In the work on this issue, the Workers' Party has been in contact with many educational and research environments, with individuals and businesses. Last night we were in contact with Ulstein Vickers – a significant company both locally and not least internationally. They said the following: Without a high-speed telecommunications network, with so much capacity that it is possible to use increasingly new technologies, and guaranteed maximum prices, it will be more difficult to face up to competition in the future. In other words, it is as important as the forthcoming mainland link. Now, on their own initiative, they had met a lot of their needs for high-speed telecommunications services. But it can't be the responsibility of the individual company to spend a lot of resources on this. What does the Right say to this? Does the Right really believe that companies themselves should use money and other resources to get high-speed telecommunications services? Has the Right failed to provide infrastructure to the public, or does the Party consider that high-speed telecommunications is not important for Norwegian enterprises and therefore does not need the same public organisation? Unfortunately, we have to state that it is only the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party that will ensure that Norwegian companies and households will receive a high-quality telecommunications service offer in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1542	We're dealing with three things today. Several representatives have been involved in them, so I'm going to take them in order, as a kind of summary. One of the cases concerns Document No. The 8 proposal from SV to separate Telenor's network from its own company. It is good and well a year ago that the Right also asked to have this investigated and get an assessment of whether it was ‘reasonable’ to do this. The conclusion of the investigation that lies ahead of us shows that it is not. And then, of course, right-hand it takes notice and tries to align with it. The reason for this is that the actors and the various stakeholders have said that it is an advantage that the innovation power in the network is like today. We are not surprised that SV has such a proposal, but it greatly surprises us that the Progress Party has a proposal to form a 100 pst. State-owned limited liability company – or whatever it may now be – that will operate it. It is possible that the Progress Party has a different experience than those signed with monopoly and self-financing, but it is, as it is often said a little spooky, the capitalist's dream, and no particularly effective way of organizing things. In most cases, such organisations where one has monopoly, while being allowed to self-finance, have a fantastic cost-effective effect. So the proposals of the Progress Party surprise us a little bit, but now it's so fine that there's no majority for that in the Chamber, and the Right agrees. The merger of Telenor and Telia has previously said to the right that we have been in favour. Then we have said it in an industrial policy context – that we believe and believe it is good and sensible to merge these two companies because we think it can have a significant synergy effect. We still believe that, and so we also meant that the first time the matter was discussed. Now it is such that such aggregation is not entirely trouble-free, which I also tried to say in a reply to the Council of State earlier. It is clear that when you get such a big actor as this, you might have to focus on ownership and competition. It is necessary to consider whether this actor needs competition and to ensure that the regime brings about the competition to be there. The working party has done this with the broadband case as a very big point. I understand that, because that's basically a good point. But I believe, of course, that I can prove that the Workers' Party is also exaggerating here and trying to introduce a show that is not present. The truth is, we're now talking about a company that's going to be listed and that's going to have a valuation. Then you have to be careful to start putting backpacks on the company, so that it goes into a negotiation, or into the stock exchange with considerable uncertainty. It could have a dramatic effect on what we're all concerned about, ensuring that this company gets as high a price on the stock exchange as possible, so that the state gets the income they can. I believe that any regulation, where there is uncertainty about the company's obligations, could have such an effect. That's why the Right has turned back. We agree with the intentions of the proposals to the Labour Party, but we will wait. We think it's the wrong time to do it, and that's why we've joined the central government proposal, which we think is exactly the same. It's in respect of going from a 100 pst. State-owned companies and out on the stock exchange must focus on the conditions and assumptions of the private market. Then you have to understand the mechanisms that exist there. This is one of the reasons why the Right has been against saying that this backpack should bring the company out into the world. In this respect, it is clear that the business community must have overall good infrastructure, on which the representative Ola Røtvej was involved, that the Right fully agrees. There's no problem. The problem is, should it be in the future that there should be one actor who has such a network? Is it not possible to imagine that technology could lead to the creation of different types of networks capable of providing these services, and that in a market where competition exists, it would be the best condition for business to get broadband services at the lowest price possible? We'd like to admit that we see that there might be other types of networks -- there might be radio lines, there might be different types of networks. We want to stimulate that, so that we have competition in the system, which, in addition to the regulatory one, is the most important link to the merger we are talking about today. It is necessary to focus on the conditions of competition — align the concentration on what the assumptions should be, so that the focus is on what is most important to users. That's who these services are for. In conclusion, I would like to say that I agree with those who have claimed that it is a little strange that there has not been any greater enthusiasm for this merger. The reason I think is that there is too broad a consensus about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1565	I could basically start there as the previous speaker ended, because I think he lacked a social perspective, who should have the overall responsibility to make sure you got a satisfactory infrastructure. Whether it is on broadband/high-speed networks or otherwise, it is clear that the overall responsibility of society must lie precisely in order to ensure that the consumer receives the same offer wherever the user lives. But with a government that barely takes the word globalisation in its mouth, I feel that the biggest challenge for us who make up a majority and recognize that globalisation has come is to put in place a long-term industrial policy, where it is recognised that it is as important to impose a Norwegian industrial policy beyond our borders as it is to put it within our borders, because borders mean less and less in the age of globalisation. It is important how Norway plans its industrial planning and organisation with a view to securing Norwegian enterprises and also activities from and in Norway. That is why the Workers' Party put forward its proposal for an investment company, where one saw that perhaps together with private individuals one could go in and position oneself even outside the country's borders in order to take care of vital interests. We have not received a majority for that so far. I still hope it will be possible to take that thread up again later. Telenors have all the way, for many, many years, beyond their borders, beyond the borders of the country, established themselves, because it has been absolutely necessary to establish partners to strengthen Telenor from Norway and Norway, while having open contacts with other actors. This is an area where there will be fewer and fewer groups if you see it in a world context. It was therefore quite natural that there should be a discussion, and later, as we have seen, both negotiations and a decision that Telenor wanted to join others, fortunately another Nordic actor, because in the world context, even with the merger that is taking place between Telenor and Telia, we are very, very small, and the challenges are huge even though we have now got this merger. However, what I have seen as a trend in recent years when we are on the world market is that those who do not have a high level of research and development are easily overlooked. It must be absolutely essential for the new company to be able to meet research and development environments in Norway, making it a large base and platform for research and development in Norway. We can talk about the importance of keeping the mobile phone part in Norway, but if you do not have the development and research base to a large extent in Norway, you will soon move where the research and development part has its base. It is a great responsibility to make sure that this is done in Norway. By that I mean saying that Norway has to take on board that research and development is something that most importantly determines where our different larger groups are going to establish themselves in the long term. In this way, I hope, at the very end, that in the IT Fornebu that had to be, whoever is going to get that contract, Telenor must be an important associate just to create a powerful international research and development centre.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1576	Telecommunications policy is difficult. I think today's debate shows that. Too many people think this area is very complicated. It's complex, it's quite technical, and it evolves at a pace that only a few of us, both politicians and other citizens, can manage to follow. However, most of us are service users, and with or without technical insight in this area, we still make the same demands that we have access to the services we want and can use. This applies both in private and in the workplace. So simple and so difficult is telecommunications policy. At least that means that it's not random how we, as a nation, govern telecommunications policy. It is essential that as many as possible participate in this development, which we cannot stop, and which most of us do not want to stop either. In the Workers' Party, we are very concerned that the growing generation will not have the same opportunities to follow that development. I think in this area we'll be able to see larger social dividing lines than we've ever seen. They'll be clear, and they'll get serious results. The social dividers won't care so much about whether each one gets food or clothes, but they'll think about whether we can afford and keep up with the developments that are taking place around us. In the Workers' Party we can look back at times when we got quite a bit shut because the Centre parties thought we had too much focus on business-economic profitability. Earlier in the debate, I have referred to the political basis of the central government and what it has said about telecommunications policy. I can't say that the answer was in line with the Waxenås statement, because it clarifies the importance of telecommunications services as service functions, regardless of where you live and whether it is economically profitable or not. The central government has clearly stated that they are not satisfied with the telecommunications policy of the Workers' Party and that they want a review of the telecommunications services. The last thing you might say is fulfilled to some extent, but I think most people are somewhat surprised that the review has got the outcome we see today. I am amazed at the fact that the Centre will not be involved in the Labour Party's policy, precisely because we place the decisive emphasis on what is important to us, and that the Centre Declaration should also make it crucial for the Centre, namely universal service and maximum prices of telecommunications services. Only by going into and taking such a strong lead in telecommunications policy can we achieve as a result that these interests are to be safeguarded both for the people most and for the diversity of industrial activities that we have in District Norway. Participation in technological developments and the use of new solutions may prove difficult for enterprises abroad. It may be essential for enterprises to continue to develop and remain in the rural areas. And it's hardly a desired situation, especially for the Center Party. This is an exciting future for telecommunications policy. But there is also an exciting future in politics in general. And that's why I'm particularly sorry that the Center Party here is walking on the gauges along with the Right and Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1593	The matter we are dealing with today challenges traditional transport politicians, who are used to talking about roads and lanes, planes, boats and ports. All of these areas have been fundamental to the development, work and equivalence of welfare services across the country. There are goals there in any case – and I want to include the Christian People's Party – that the Center Party has been together with the Workers' Party and the Labour Movement, and then I include SV. But now we have a new challenge, a challenge where developments are moving in explosive momentum. We see it in our own everyday life also here at Stortinget, where in any case I have in less than two years suddenly received e-mails as one of my most important ways of communicating with people. Providing good infrastructure also in this area will be as fundamental in the future as, for example: road and aircraft have been to create development, work and equivalence in welfare services across the country. And precisely because developments are moving so fast, it's vital that we politicians are in the forefront of development. It's dangerous if we take a wait and look attitude, because already today there are some major differences in access to capacity and in price around the country. This is why it was an important decision by the Stortinget last year — on a proposal from the Workers’ Party, Right and SV — to ask the Government to ‘develop a plan for the accelerated development of forward-looking bands and lines...’, etc., as it stated in the Decision. But then the government comes back and leaves the whole responsibility to the market. It is clear that the main responsibility for such development and upgrading must lie with the operators, i.e. with the telecommunications companies, but the central government is currently choosing to assign the full responsibility to the operators, while the Workers' Party and SV are already saying that, in their view, the Government must introduce universal service through the concession terms. That's an important distinction. In addition, we say, and make it clear in the comments, that we are «open to consider that part of the sales income of the State's sale of shares in Telenor following the proposed association between Telenor and Telia may also be used to ensure equivalent offers». There is an opening Workerpartiet and SV is left alone in Stortinget. I'm surprised that the centre parties, and to the right, cannot help giving this important signal to business, to private individuals and to the public sector in District Norway. If we're going to secure the settlement in the districts, it's not going to keep using yesterday's instruments. We, who represent the political system, have a great responsibility to facilitate the new jobs – the jobs we do not yet know and which in the future will make up an increasing proportion of the jobs. I belong to those who are optimistic on behalf of the districts. I see a trend coming where youth will seek from the cities to the districts, because there is proximity to nature, fresh air, cheaper housing and hopefully an all-round school for their kids. But what's finally going to decide if they're moving is that there's an opportunity to establish themselves there with a job. Half of young people today take higher education. This is a whole new situation for district policy. And young people with higher education want a relevant job. If they are to move back to the districts, they must have the opportunity to combine a relevant job with living in the districts, and perhaps commute two to three days a week into the nearest city or town. Even today, there are many examples of young people, such as young people. on Senja, has his daily work ahead of a computer. But if it should be so in the future too, we cannot wait and see, not just hope and faith, when our hands and leave the job to the market. Then we must also take political responsibility. For the time being, there is no majority for such political responsibility here in the Stortinget. It would have been if the center parties had known their visitation time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1624	At the beginning of this week we discussed a matter related to the issues we are discussing today. The merger, also called convergence, which we now see between traditional sectors such as information technology, telecommunications and the media, has created new industries in addition to the fact that IT is a crucial growth and competitiveness factor in traditional business. Therefore, we rely on a comprehensive IT policy that prevents this from creating new differences between people and between districts. It must be a goal to ensure a development that gives us competence here at home and across the country. But this isn't obvious, it depends on us having political solutions in general. I have to admit that I was surprised when I saw today's adjustment. It's probably not to hide that the government parties have changed course in recent years, but that we should see that they are failing the districts in this way, have surprised me, and it should be a little bit more, at least for us who have some experience in how some of the government parties are doing politics. The continued existence of the market to have the right of technological development has some effects. It's all made clear that IT can actually seem very centralizing. At the same time, unanimous decisions have been taken on the development of an IT knowledge centre, which can also work in the same way if it is not seen in the context of other developments and it is facilitated to allow other parts of the country to participate in the development. That is what we call political governance, and that is what the proposals of the Labour Party and the SV today are about. It has been claimed by the Center Party that there is a contradiction in being for both IT Fornebu and network expansion. I want to raise the opposite. This is related. Without net capacity to exploit IT Fornebu in the rest of the country, which is actually the Central Party's option, there is a danger that it may be centralising. I was amazed when the government put forward its proposal with an assessment that the infrastructure we have online today is sufficient for the whole country. All over the country, we have seen that IT environments and businesses have grown and become international. IT is possible, but it requires one thing: the ability to communicate. And the reports in recent years have been fairly unambiguous: more capacity is needed. It's only been one year since the last tele subscriber in the Nord-Trøndelag got the opportunity to connect to the Internet. With such a policy, it is not possible to build up an international environment in the county as well. The development of businesses in rural areas, often with strong growth and the establishment of department offices in several major cities in Europe, is one thing they need: better communication opportunities; otherwise they need to find it elsewhere. This shows that it is not the network market that adapts to demand, but the companies that adapt to the network offer. Therefore, the Workers' Party's proposal is essential in order to achieve the best possible development of IT in districts as well, because it provides new opportunities for business, with the development of new business as a result. It was claimed from the Center Party that we are busy. Yes, we have so far. In Canada, which I've looked at a little bit, they had plans for such a network in place three years ago. That's why we're busy if we're going to reach what the center parties write in the setting, that we're going to be 'at the forefront of international development'. We have a long tradition of national and local authorities moving in the same direction, and on IT we see that much of the same happens. It is thought in the same way in some municipalities and regions throughout the country: building centres of expertise and developing business in relation to it, giving citizens the same opportunities as they have in central Europe. Thus, it is also possible to implement what was the starting point, using information technology as a good district policy. It is therefore surprising that the centre parts in particular go against the electronic highway proposed by the Workers' Party. Although they appear in words as followers of an extension, they still lack the ability to put the targets into action, as the Workers' Party and SV do today. In order to succeed in the strategy of which an IT centre at Fornebu is part, we need to be able to take care of the businesses and centres that are built across the country. When some consider moving out of the districts now, it is precisely because it is not possible for them to develop there. This is the biggest threat to IT becoming a good district industry. This can happen when the majority is unable to participate and adopt a good national strategy, but is only concerned with limiting the participation of the state. We are thus also at risk of cutting the regions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1647	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1650	It's with great joy I read in Innst. S. No 197 the majority believe that significant parts of R & D activities in Telenor and Telia need to be added to Norway. If we are to keep up with the rest of the IT world, it is important to facilitate increased research in this field, which is in line with what the Norwegian Research Council has highlighted. Around national telecommunications companies, different types of supply industry and industry have developed with considerable competence. Such a supplier industry is Alcatel Kabel Norway AS on Rognan in Northern Ireland. This factory is the sole supplier of Telenor on telecommunications cables, and is the only factory in the country that produces this type of cable. Telenor is Alcatel's largest customer, and the company relies on Telenor to have stable and even production. In this merger of Telenor and Telia, Telenor Nett, to which Alcatel delivers cable, will become Swedish. The fear that this will have negative consequences for Alcatel on Rognan is great because of the good friendship between Telia and Ericsson. Ericsson is Alcatel's biggest competitor in the Nordic region. As the majority of the committee expresses, the Telenor company has played a major role in many communities, and I hope that the environments built around the companies can continue to exist. That Alcatel on Rognan at any stop in Telenor's production is not life-created, is not quite right to say. But the conditions for a very special enterprise in a small community will be pretty much exacerbated. I agree with the merger of Telenor and Telia, but should this lead to the closure of Norway's only telecommunications cable industry, it will indirectly merge into the range of former direct closures of Telenor departments, especially in Finnmark and Nordland. Here I think Telenor and the new company have a responsibility for Norway's only telecommunications cable industry. It is not too much to demand that, in a merger process with Sweden and Telia, former contract enterprises in Norway and Telenor still have a future, perhaps even better than before, as well as that some jobs based on new technologies be located in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1663	I see from the case files that the merger of Telenor and Telia under EU Council Regulation 4064/89 on the control of concentrations between undertakings is subject to notification obligations. Under the rules of the EEA Agreement on the division of competences between the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA and the European Commission, the latter shall examine the matter. During its proceedings, the Commission will consult national competition authorities, which also have the opportunity to intervene in the Commission's proceedings. The Commission is competent to accept the aggregation with or without conditions and to prohibit it. I see that the Government will consider any competition policy measures once the Commission's treatment has been completed, and I look forward to that with a frightful mix of joy. The representative Inge Myrvoll insisted that getting the fibre net out to everyone would be a little profitable, and that the government would wait and see. Well, then not everyone has equal access. Or is it that there's only a few living in a place, so there's no need for it? The representative, Ola Røtweg and the Workers' Party, now highlight the need for high-speed networks, but as so often before, the Workers' Party cannot indicate where the money is to be taken from or what other public services it is going to cost. Nor can I see that the Workers' Party has taken this into account in its budget, and then it is not true that the Workers' Party and SV are the parties that will ensure equal access across the country. As you know, nothing is being built in this country on request, without the money coming along. But it doesn't take the Labour Party that much. It's almost election time, so here it's about promising something you can't keep.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1677	As regards the proposal for the separation of Telenor's networks and for the establishment of a company for the management of State telecommunications networks, cf. Document No 8:42 for 1998-1999 by Mr Inge Myrvoll, the Progress Party will only refer to its previous proposal in Innst. S. No 123 for 1997-1998 on the separation of Telenor AS's infrastructure network from its own company, which received only the votes of the Progress Party. St.meld. No 24 for 1998-1999 provides important pointer pins for the future in the Norwegian telecommunications sector. However, the Progress Party will emphasise that it is the deregulation and globalisation of the telecommunications market that has helped the whole country to have access to cheaper and better quality telecommunications services, a policy that the Progress Party has long advocated. The Progress Party will further point out how new technologies in information and communication provide great and new opportunities for the population. This technology will provide a tone in the design of tomorrow's Norwegian societies. New industrial activities will arise on the basis of it, while existing industrial activities will develop and partially change. In time, we no longer have to act ourselves. Updated interactive refrigerators automatically record consumption and use the telecommunications network to order the goods needed at all times. Much is positive, but we realize that if the knowledge of this technology is limited, it will seem exclusive. It's a moment we should notice. We have now been able to select the operator on the fixed network by making a separate prefix in front of the regular telephone number. But here things have taken a long time. Lack of permanent operator preferences and number portability have led to a lack of competitiveness in the telecommunications market being as strong as desired. However, we note that these possibilities will now be introduced from 1 June 1999. The Progress Party will also note that Telenor still has an approximate monopoly on the access network. In this context, other actors need to be opened up, so that competition is also created in this segment. It should be made possible for the access network to be used by all telecommunications operators on equal terms. It would also be a good idea if the access network had been separated from Telenor's other organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03.ana.ud1144e1690	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately at hand. The president proposed that the meeting should now be suspended and that a new meeting be set at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
