ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e31	The representative of Øystein Djupedal submitted an application for welfare leave on 11 and 12 February. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Vara representative, Heidi K. Larsen, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e51	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e56	I propose Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Aud Blattmann.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e61	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Aud Blattmann are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Aud Blattmann are unanimously elected as presidents of the current meeting. The representative of Trond Helleland will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e66	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Kristin Krohn Devold, Erna Solberg and myself on the investigation and launch of pilot projects with Norwegian education for pre-school children with poor Norwegian understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e71	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that this morning's meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the scheduled time. 15.00 until the current map has been processed. – no objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e83	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the main speakers of each party group, parliamentary leaders and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for the other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers of each party group and parliamentary leaders and five lines with replies from members of the Government. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e90	It is not difficult for us in the Labour Party to be united in most of what the Minister of Development and Human Rights said in his briefing. Governments put forward 10 points for action, and I'm going to be surprised if someone in the Storting is able to come up with a particularly strong deal on these points. If there is one problem with these points – or the strategy, as I believe the Council of State calls them – it must be that they are so general that they can hardly be said to be a political governance instrument. In any case, they contain little new and get priorities. However, it does not take away the value of such a comprehensive overview of the humanitarian aid to be provided by Norway and the basis for it. But at the next level, maybe it wouldn't be the road if the Council of State went a little deeper into the difficult choices we're facing in humanitarian aid. This field is not as conflict free as an impression from the Government. However, I do not expect the Government to draw up a priority list for humanitarian action in the future. In this field an event must be controlled by far (managed) means action. That is, in practice, what the Government says. Humanitarian aid and long-term development cooperation are closely linked. It's generally accepted that there has to be such a context. It is also clear. in the position the Foreign Affairs Committee gave to the North-South Communication a few years ago. Short-term humanitarian efforts that do not take into account the fact that the communities concerned will be able to deal with themselves later may remedy acute crises, but may also provide a basis for long-term underdevelopment. This was also pointed out by the Minister, and it is a little controversial. The question is how to find a practical way out of this. But this concern must, in all respects, be at the bottom of all humanitarian work. On the other hand, such a long-term perspective may raise new problems. I have more than once been confronted with the following statements, just enough in slightly different versions, but where the content is the same: we appreciate the humanitarian work, but those who do this work do not do humanitarian work; they are driving economic cooperation under the humanitarian flag. Another variant is where it is pointed out that humanitarian aid is appreciated. But it is not humanitarian work that is being done; it is rather political interference on internal issues. It is, as the Minister was also concerned, neutrality and solidarity that can come into conflict in some respects. These statements say that there is still a room for and a need for the classical humanitarian effort as we know it most from the International Red Cross Committee and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. The space for these two and for other similar organisations may become more crowded when more people throw themselves into the market with very different objectives and starting points. I think there might be a need to protect about this core of humanitarian work. But on the other hand, it is absolutely necessary to have a far-reaching definition of humanitarian work. One of the gamblers by establishing a too close link between humanitarian efforts and long-term development cooperation is that one cannot, in principle, stop humanitarian aid but continue long-term development cooperation. Then it's not easy to get out, and there's not so many places to go in when you can't get out. In addition, the private initiatives of humanitarian efforts will also be able to direct resource use in the long-term development work when a commitment to these projects is made. We will have more development cooperation that can be disastrous and conflict-torn, perhaps even with a clearer political profile than we have today. I think it has to be that way to some extent, and that we have to choose politically. Another paradox and problem appears in the North-South Message setting, Innst. S. No 229 for 1995-96, which it is called: ‘The members of the Committee of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People’s Party point out that when the volume of the total aid stagnates, while increasing appropriations for peace work, humanitarian aid and emergency aid, such assistance will be at the expense of longer-term assistance. This helps to create unnecessary lines of conflict between the two areas of aid policy and may make it difficult to see these areas in context.’ In the budget proposed by the Council of State, the total budget for development cooperation stagnated, and after its party had entered into settlement in the Grand Duchy, there was a marked reduction in the budget. Humanitarian aid is, as she says in her briefing, a record high. It might be interesting to get an answer from the Council of State on whether this reduced budget and the increase in the conflict which must necessarily follow it in line with what it has said is the real reason for the orientation that came to the Storting. For perhaps such a conflict must occur, but in that case there will be a conflict we cannot allow ourselves out of. These are difficult choices, but when we don't have enough money for everyone, the difficult choices are not to avoid. I believe that we are going into a period when we are confronted with clear political priorities of the areas in which we are going, including in the humanitarian field, because we want to have a stronger link between humanitarian action and long-term aid. We in the Working Party are of course more than 100 pst. agreed that there is no television light to control the response in the humanitarian field. In a certain moon, it's the opposite. Here I am entirely in agreement with the minister. Both on the basis of justice and on the basis of the desire to prevent conflicts, it is important to be in a place where television lights are not. I dare to mention two examples of this in addition to what the minister raised. One is the many who had to flee as a result of the war between Azerbaijan and Armenia. These live under inhuman conditions. The conflict is not dead, and it can soon re-emerge and move with countries far beyond those directly involved. A solution or a dramatic reversal of the conditions for these refugees may be one contribution to avoiding a new open conflict. Another example of an area outside the search light is the Serbia refugees. These refugees are people in great need, and we find many of them all over Yugoslavia. There are many people who need help in many countries, but there are amazing numbers who have shown interest in just the many hundreds of thousands who are in Serbia. They are also victims of a war and a tyranny. A massive aid to these should be a natural part of a more extensive peace process in the area. Here, too, the television light is missing, but it's important to come in. In the context of the 1999 budget, the Labour Party called for a more monthly commitment to cooperation with the neighbourhoods of East, especially Russia. We used to do other things. proposals of about 30 million. kr extra, especially for what we call humanitarian action. In practice, it refers to health and social interventions, particularly targeting children, the elderly and the disabled. The government and even more the majority in Stortinget shaved this promise dramatically and the money is almost spent up after what we understand now. This is an example of the fact that an open-minded person has left an area a priority when it comes to humanitarian action. The government itself spent time on the major disaster areas, especially in Central Africa, and I might also add to West Africa. I don't want to go into them any more, but these are maybe the most obvious areas where the television light is missing. There are only large, large-scale robberies, and in between it is not in place. That is why, and especially on a look at these major disaster areas, we have to look at what the Minister had as a key point in his intervention, that coordination of efforts is entirely decisive for the outcome. Of course, it must be said that there is the result that counts, not the flag. However, when the Minister particularly attaches great importance to all the places where Norway has been in early or has been in for a long time, this suggests that the flag has a little to say – of course. The flag also has a bit to say when goods and equipment are to be delivered. First of all, local capacity is of course to be expanded and satisfied, as the minister said. However, there is no reason for Norway to be so blue-eyed that one gives away deliveries to other prosperous, rich countries only in order to be the smallest in the world society. No one is impressed by anything like that. However, the conclusion must be clear. Coordination and effectiveness must come first. Whoever does it is not decisive. The most important thing is that it is done. It appears that free competition for those who suffer need is not the best way to help. Governments highlight the ‘Norwegian model’ where organisations and governmental powers work closely together. It might not be particularly Norwegian, maybe a little bit more Nordic. Of course, the working party also participates in this salutation of this model. However, I think that we should challenge each other and also the ministry and organizations to a critical and holistic review of this close web between voluntary organizations and governmental powers. Whether it's a distribution, a commission or something else, we don't know, but this interweaving has great consequences for both the government and the organizations. Most of the consequences are probably intended and consistent with a common objective of humanitarian aid and economic and social development. However, there are also other aspects of voluntary and non-profit organisations becoming operators on behalf of the state. I look forward to an initiative to clarify this issue, and I don't think there is anything bad about the Storting. Two questions that I have not raised here, I can come back later. One is the use of military power for humanitarian action. Mandate issues and legitimacy are two key points. The second is the issue of etno-nationalism and the requirement of ethnically homogeneous states, the need for a change of national borders by means of choice, alternative construction of international institutions and international cooperation so that one can change national borders without having to resort to power. This is a large canvas that will take a long time to bleach, but which is perhaps one of the most challenging.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e140	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e143	I want to raise a point where Haakon Blankenborg and I hardly disagree, but where the opposite of his perspective is equally important. I fully agree with what was said about the so-called CNN effect, that it is important not to run after the media and allow Norwegian aid and humanitarian aid to be controlled by it. But the opposite is probably more important: ensuring media access to crisis areas and situations. There's not a single TV picture from the genocide in Rwanda. Had CNN been to Rwanda, the genocide in Rwanda had not existed. In all likelihood, there would have been a much better guarantee in Srebrenica that the BBC or Dutch TV companies had been sent in, than the peacekeeping force of 750. Had TV reported directly from Srebrenica, Srebrenica had not existed. Neither did Rwanda. And it's unthinkable that Auschwitz would exist with CNN or BBC outside, directly reporting every day. There are two lessons from this in my opinion. One is that making demands for free access to the media in countries and areas in crisis situations is one of the most important things we can do, probably the most important thing, and the second is that supporting free and independent media in countries that are in a difficult situation, in a humanitarian crisis, is also one of the most important things we do — probably often the best poverty-oriented aid that can be provided at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e155	I fully agree that free media and public awareness of the situation in the crisis area should be one of the most important requirements. I also think that it's a part of what I was looking for, that one by ensuring a public awareness of the situation makes it easier for those who are going to be responsible for the humanitarian effort. When one has seen that international organisations have become targets for different fractions in different conflicts, it is precisely to call for international attention, and if one pre-empts ensuring that the international community is adequately present through mass media, one could mitigate the risk of international and humanitarian organisations being used as hostages in such a context. Thus, there are only good arguments for public access requirements and the free access of the media to such areas. There are only good arguments for such demands, including those of the public sector, from the Ministry and from Norwegian Governing Authorities. Of course, such free access for the media in all conflict areas must also be a requirement of international organisations and of the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e162	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e165	The starting point for aid policy is that every country in the long run must stand on its own feet. Therefore, aid policy measures, including those called humanitarian, should be based on the principle of self-help. Our aid policy can therefore be summed up as a qualification of our slogan that 'the future is created, it is not adopted'. At the end of the day, the countries themselves must create their own prosperity. And here is the experience: the countries that are based on the principle that the market as a signal system, where people who themselves know their own needs can express them via the market and at the same time are allowed to work for informed self-interest in the form of rewards for action, are the ones that are generally the best. The market is a central engine in the development of wealth. No politician or social person, no political system, has been able to develop something that can compete with the market as an engine for the eradication of poverty and need. But of course the market also has clear weaknesses. That's why I can also rewrite the slogan: the market is the worst system of prosperity development, except for all the other systems we know. Political decisions are necessary in order to create prosperity. Politicians' work is to ensure that conditions are conducive to the functioning of the market. Private property, State of law, fundamental human rights, free competition, product control regulations, etc. are necessary. However, where these conditions are appropriate with favourable cultural and social conditions, the basis for prosperity development is laid. The job of Norway is in the opinion of the Progress Party in pursuing a foreign policy that helps to promote these conditions. The central task of Norway is to ensure that developing countries are given the opportunity to reap the fruits of such a policy by giving them equal opportunities on the world market. Just as the development of the market has been crucial for the development of wealth nationally, the extension of this by developing world trade has been crucial in order to increase prosperity internationally. Free trade involving the reduction of customs barriers and non-tariff barriers to trade, the fight against protectionism, has been crucial for the increase in world trade and the subsequent increase in wealth. Not least the development of the GATT system and the World Trade Organization have been one of the main reasons why world trade has grown almost twice as much as world production in the post-war period. Specialisation, division of labour and economies of scale are all factors contributing to emphasising the importance of promoting international trade. This is why in recent years the demands of developing countries have also focused on requirements for freer access to the world market for agricultural products and other goods. In the past, the main slogan was stronger regulation of world trade in favour of developing countries. The Party of Progress is the party in Norway that has been most critical of aid. An ethical assessment should, in my view, be made on the basis of psychiatric ethics: a good intention is a good starting point for the assessment of an act. But this must also be weighed against consistent assessments: what are the results of the action? My view is that the intention of the supporters of providing extensive unhelp is usually positive, based on mental opinion, even though, of course, one should not give money to regimes which can hardly be called democratic, and which even wage war in other countries, such as the United States. Zimbabwe, which received over 110 million. D bilateral assistance from Norway in 1997. Worse still, such assistance is assessed against the many unsolved tasks that are in line here at home in the health and older sectors as well as in the security, justice, transport and school sectors. If you evaluate it consistently, it gets even worse, given that what you're really doing is helping to maintain and strengthen bandit regimes that run a policy that really suppresses and benefits its own inhabitants. The measures that can be taken in the context of pure disaster and emergency aid — aid of an unmistakable humanitarian nature — are in line, and help to countries such as Zimbabwe to undermine confidence and the conclusion of a general form of humanitarian aid, which should be avoided. Minister Frafjord Johnson said in his statement, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Today, most of the humanitarian aid is provided in a difficult political landscape, often in areas where armed conflict continues. We seem to be facing not only a new picture of conflict, but also a new picture of disaster. This has changed the assumptions for what has traditionally been called emergency aid.’ This is a comprehensive description, but in my view, Frafjord Johnson should also draw the logical end of this: it must be better, if we are to first use large sums of aid, to channel humanitarian aid in the form of preventing conflicts, for example. by means of peace-keeping operations and peace-keeping military forces, rather than going into the aftermath and trying to clean up major, already-created disasters, such as. in Rwanda or the former Yugoslavia. It must be better to contribute to the prevention of conflicts and other crises — often resulting from humanitarian disasters — than to contribute to the support of regimes such as those currently in Zimbabwe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e196	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e199	I was a while in doubt about the theme of Danielsen's representative. I was a little uncertain about aid to authoritarian regimes – including Zimbabwe, I understood – strictly had something to do with humanitarian aid. But he got into it at the very end, and at least he went into conflict resolution or prevention. The representative Danielsen and I can agree that it is important to contribute to prevention measures to prevent conflicts. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the representative Danielsen: in the statement to the Council of State Frafjord Johnson it is stated that of 101 armed conflicts in the world today, only six are between states. How does Danielsen view this as having the necessary consequences for our aid policy? How are we to deal with the humanitarian situation that arises in such areas? And how are we going to deal with the purely emergency aid and the absolutely necessary long-term work that also needs to be done to bring such a country back to the cold and secure development? Is there something that the market is going to provide, as Danielsen used the first few minutes to talk about, that engine apparently both in the development of aid and prosperity?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e206	I went into my intervention thoroughly into the market, because I believe that it is what ultimately is crucial for aid to work, and that it is the best form of assistance to give access to the market. You can rewrite as the representative of Blankenborg, among others. and say that policy is a continuation of humanitarian action with the use of some other instruments. I personally am not entirely a member of that concept, because I think that is a bit of a misguided debate. That is why, in the Progress Party, we have always been in favour of disaster and emergency aid in principle. It's been the basic thing for us. When it comes to dealing with internal conflicts, I believe that this should be done, as in, for example, the case of the internal conflict. former Yugoslavia. There I believe that it may be necessary to go in with peacekeeping forces to prevent the bloodbath that will probably occur in a few weeks if nothing is done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e216	One of the special features of the Progress Party in Norwegian policy is that they go towards assistance to countries that have such needs. Except here is urgent assistance to help in relation to hunger and distress and such things. Long-term assistance to enable a country to function after war, after disasters, after long-term misery, including in particular: in order to provide the population with education, to obtain a health system that works, to build democracy so that business can also function, so that in the situation that Danielsen points out here, one can export and be able to stand on their own feet – how does the Progress Party approach such a long-term and, in my opinion, very sensible and necessary assistance to enable a country to stand on its own feet?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e221	The answer is that we are very critical. It is very rare that we are willing to go in with funds, often because we have seen that the results of the work have been very poor, and that it has not contributed to the necessary development. It has also been shown that it has often been very difficult to control that the funds used abroad have been properly used in line with the assumptions Norway had when giving this money, and the results of the assistance provided have often been very poor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e226	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e229	It has now been ten years since the fall of the Wall changed the world picture. What we thought and hope could be a new start after a long cold war has turned out to be a decade with an explosion of local and regional conflicts that has more than ever marked the international arena. These have not been standing still, but bloody ethnic and religious conflicts and armed civil wars. 30 million people are fleeing – more and more of them internally displaced. Nor have we been able to reduce the differences between the poor and the rich in the world. In a period of globalisation where a great deal is made available to people across borders, only the differences between those who have access to resources and the means to make use of it and those who do not. Many of the conflicts we see today can be seen directly with the unevenly distributed goods internationally. Natural disasters and other tragedies also hit developing countries harder than others because of poverty and exploitation of natural resources. It is therefore important that a debate on humanitarian aid, the acute and immediate assistance, be seen in the context of strategic and long-term development assistance, as the Minister for Development and Human Rights makes. It's our responsibility to be ahead of what will mark tomorrow's news picture. We must be leading the war, while at the same time we are also where the distress occurs. For the Christian People's Party, it's about the four f's: poverty reduction prevention UN and non-governmental organisations peace – reconciliation It is better to enable people to develop than to restore development for the people. We can support the struggle to survive and build a better future in which people will be able to live a good life in self-respect and trust in their own strengths. Uganda's change agents have something to teach us there. If you create human dignity, you create peace, that's what they say. We must continue to work against poverty, too equivalised. Preventive work is required at a time when new conflicts are constantly emerging. From medicine we know that prevention is so much better than cure. Human lives and material destruction are being saved, and humanitarian aid could have been exploited in a place where disaster was inevitable, for example: now in Colombia. Moreover, we can only manage to prevent conflicts through broad international cooperation. International humanitarian aid must be coordinated. There has been a development in the United Nations system in the 1990s, and this should continue. Aid must also be better coordinated between donor countries. By focusing on the causes of conflicts, one can be better prepared, and by having a well-developed early warning system for potential crises, one can perhaps avoid them or reduce their consequences. Academics and researchers have come a long way in developing such a system, and the political environment must be open to welcome. In such systems no conflict is forgotten, as we know has been a problem in the past. And with facts on the table, international work can be distributed and overlap avoided. The goal must be to get more effective immediate help. The Hurricane "Mitch" gave us a good example of how important it is with partners who are at the places we are going to reach and who know the conditions well from before. Norwegian organisations have shown great strength in their contacts with non-governmental organisations in other countries and have established a good network. By promoting democratic principles and respect for the right to life and equality, we promote peace. It is known that there are fewer and less serious conflicts between democracies. There is reason to believe that this also applies to internal conflicts. Conflicts and crises may also often arise because of instability and breakdowns in central government functions. We should not blindly assert the universality of human rights, but be aware that they are not everywhere part of the traditional norms. But neither should we be so “neutral” that it has misunderstood consequences. However, humanitarian aid must be directed at the real victims. Therefore, the inclusion of an impartial position in a conflict could be correct. That's not how you take sides for anything other than the suffering people and seek nothing more than the cross-conflict to help those who need it. This is how it becomes more important than ever to look ahead and have long-term solutions and goals for help. A functioning economic system and a stable political system are also prerequisites for development. Humanitarian aid should have a broader task than bringing immediate relief to victims; it also needs to put back something that makes a new escalation of conflict unlikely. Reconciliation work, which we have seen in several countries in recent years, is beneficial, for example. The Church’s Emergency Aid has played a significant role in Guatemala. Voluntary organisations, both at grassroots level and at high political level, in the countries in which they work, have proved to be very important in this context. Central to any democracy is the development of parties. Here I believe that we have opportunities and challenges, and that we as political parties have a responsibility. The experience we have gained, and the competences we have acquired through the cooperation of parties in democracy in Eastern Europe, can now be exchanged in democratic cooperation also in the south. Political parties in the south need political contacts that can once again link to regional and international political networks. Norway is a model international and our voice is listened to in terms of assistance. We also have respect for international engagement. Norwegian u-help is referred to, inter alia: in The Washington Post. ‘List two little Norway’, says an article based on a conversation with Development Minister Hilde Frafjord Johnson. It is said that the minister is on the right track. The main problem in our day is the lack of political will to do something, not the size of the wallet. People want help to live, not just not to die, said the president of Mali to us in a conversation. The challenge is to identify the root causes of potential conflicts and poverty and to have targeted measures for reconstruction in the context of long-term work on reconciliation and development. This is easier to talk about than to implement. For development is created from the inside, while assistance comes from the outside. This can be combined by removing barriers to development so that changes can take place internally in the country. The report ‘The Reality of Aid’ shows that investments in health services and education pay off. It is about strengthening capacity in the recipient countries. The beneficiaries of assistance must be responsible for planning and implementation. We should not wait until we hear the fire alarm until we start building the fire station, Kofi Annan has said when he was the head of the peacekeeping forces. It's better to be at the forefront – peacekeeping. Developing civil society when peace is to be established after a conflict reduces the risk of resorting to new acts of violence. The participation of the population in the construction of society in the political and social processes is the first step towards democratic development. As the minister said in his statement, it is important now to go from word to action. The government has addressed the problems and acknowledges that emergency aid itself does not end violence and poverty. But one has to deal with the starting point of distress and structural problems, such as: is done in Sudan, where respect for human rights approaches the zero point. Children are particularly vulnerable to war and crisis situations. It is important to come early with help — not only with food and medicine but also with help for rehabilitation in relation to their experiences so as to avoid anti-developmental situations. Redd Barna has, among other things, establish such a preparedness group with child-care expertise to identify children’s need for assistance and to draw up action plans. The Christian People's Party will also support efforts to raise the age limit for participation in war from 15 to 18 years, thereby achieving fewer children being recruited to soldiers. Hunger and malnutrition are still realities in the world. Agriculture is neglected in many places in Africa. Food aid is necessary when there is a famine – so that we can save lives there and there. But constant food aid makes the necessary efforts to solve agricultural production problems more difficult. Africa still has large reserves of agricultural land, and it requires investment to put them into production. In Zambia, 14 pst. of the arable land exploited, so you're still dependent on the outside world. But there's enough food in the world. That's the distribution there's something wrong with. In addition, the many armed conflicts are also the cause of a lot of hunger and distress. Drying and flooding are also caused by human failures, including: our approach to nature, such as: logging on the forest. When disasters come, the poorest will be hit first. But aid must not become a sleeping pad for inefficient governments. Surplus food can be purchased from countries close to countries in crisis, including international organisations. This saves transport costs at the same time, such as: when Zimbabwe delivered food to the UN’s efforts in Mozambique. Building up food preparedness in the community will also prevent mass movements of people when crises occur. This will prevent disasters and build sustainable development strategies. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government will build a bridge between humanitarian aid and development. For us, this is about nothing less than saving lives. And this will always have our highest priority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e282	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e285	Elsa Scarbøvik made an excellent post, where I agree with each word. As you can see, this shows the broad consensus there is between the centre parties, the Workers' Party and the SV in the questions you are discussing here today. What I want to challenge Elsa Scarbøvik is to help draw the logical conclusion of what she says in her article. And it's time, in my opinion, that we now say much more clearly that we are running politics when we run assistance. It has long been on the verge of seeing aid as a kind of technical affair – an unpolitical one – and the emphasis has been on some form of poverty reduction where it has been perceived that the money should go directly to the poor in some sense. The most important form of poverty reduction across the globe is to prevent war and conflict and to contribute to supporting political parties and directions that create stability and economic progress and that will benefit in a sensible way. Sudan, where the Minister of Aid is strongly involved, is an excellent example of a country where, if you do not help resolve the conflict, you will have to provide humanitarian aid throughout the period in which everyone is sitting in this Chamber. In Angola, we must be able to say that almost all the international communities have done in recent years have been thrown away. You've helped some individuals, of course, but since you haven't helped solve the conflict, you're now at full speed into a new, great war in Angola, where almost everything that's done is ruined. The conclusion of this is, in my view, that a much larger proportion of Norwegian aid resources must be shifted from traditional humanitarian and technical projects to supporting peace and reconciliation, peace processes, political opposition in dictatorships – in short, that we recognise what is the logical consequence of everything Elsa Scarbøvik says, namely that we must politicise Norwegian aid.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e300	I thank you for the honor, and I am glad that there is agreement on what I have said, and that is mentioned in the statement. I agree that we are in charge of politics. Of course, aid is also policy. That Christian People's Party has never concealed it. The aid budget is adopted here by politicians, and the Christian People's Party is also committed to policy-making on the premises of the aid countries. We are fighting poverty, and the most important thing then for the Christian People's Party is to participate in and prevent war by participating in peace and reconciliation work. Here, the SV and the Christian People's Party agree.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e305	Let me join in what Erik Solheim said in his reply, both with regard to the inauguration of Scarbøvik, and the broad consensus in this process between the middle parties and the Workers' Party and the SV on assistance in general, but also with regard to humanitarian aid more specifically. I would like to follow up on the lines that we just had. In the case of humanitarian aid specifically, it is to a large extent the private organisations that are both channels and practitioners of this assistance on behalf of Norway. These private organisations play in so far as different roles. We have Red Cross's neutrality policy. It's the characteristic of the Red Cross, wherever they are. However, we also have assistance organisations, private solidarity organisations, which provide more solidarity for emergency aid and humanitarian aid. The efforts of Norwegian People's Aid in South Sudan are a very good example of this. But there's nothing new. When we were engaged in anti-apartheid work in southern Africa, a number of Norwegian aid organisations, supported by the Norwegian authorities, run humanitarian relief work on the liberation movements in their refugee camps. We also know that the Church's emergency aid and other organizations in Latin America have taken their stand. I would like to ask the representative Scarbøvik whether she does not believe that humanitarian aid is also difficult, when it comes to the matter, both to define as neutral and not least to implement as neutral in practice, whether it should also be called some kind of political aid, and that humanitarian aid should also be political.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e312	I'd like to pay tribute to the volunteer organizations. It is true, as Marit Nybakk says, that they are important channels on behalf of Norway out to the countries. Humanitarian aid is important, and I agree that we should strengthen the voluntary organisations. However, it is important to work with national forces and to take these into account. Although organisations have different ways of working, they have to work in line with agreed objectives for work, and this is done around them. I agree that these are important things for the organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e317	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e320	Humanitarian aid and emergency aid have become a significant growth area. The needs seem endless. An important development is that the conflicts of the 1990s and wars mainly affect civilians. 80 pst. by the victims of the conflicts in the last decade are civilian. The number of natural disasters has also increased in recent decades. We know that many of these are man-made. At the same time, we see those in charge and responsible for humanitarian action operating in increasingly difficult and dangerous conditions. Humanitarian aid is unconditional assistance from the international community provided in particular two types of situations, firstly to those in need of various kinds of natural disasters, and secondly to those in various forms of armed conflict. There are both similarities and large differences in the situation of humanitarian relief workers in the various forms of relief operations. However, developments in the conflict picture in recent years may have particularly challenged the conditions of aid workers in conflict situations. It has become increasingly clear that humanitarian aid itself does not resolve conflicts. Providing humanitarian aid cannot be a substitute for political pressure in conflict situations. Similarly, humanitarian efforts do not always contribute to the cessation of human rights violations. That is why we must never exempt countries from their responsibilities towards their own people and against the international rules that they are obliged to follow. In other words, acute humanitarian aid is very important, but rarely enough. It is therefore necessary to establish a link between the emergency relief work in areas of war and disaster and other aspects of development policy. We need to coordinate our efforts with those of others, so that resources are used in the best possible way in total, and we need to be better able to see the link between humanitarian crises and the political work on the international arena. The right considers that a renewed strategy for humanitarian aid with a focus on long-term sustainability, coordination and prevention is the right way to go. However, I would like to address a few areas that the Council of State has little influence on in its presentation. The conditions for providing humanitarian aid in armed conflicts have worsened in recent years. As the Council of State itself stated, the conflicts of the 1990s are extremely violent. They primarily affect the civilian population, and not least, they no longer follow national borders. Ethnic contradictions among people who live very closely to each other every day make the hate strong when it first gets attached. The international community is struggling daily with how to deal with these types of conflicts. But it becomes clearer to more people that excluding the use of military resources from the international community to prevent humanitarian disasters is not possible. The question is, however, how prepared we are to act in time. There are several of the conflicts in the 1990s that the international community has acted late and also in the wrong way. Experiences from, among others: Bosnia and Somalia have clearly shown us the need for clearer roles and coordination between the various actors on the part of the international community. In both conflicts, the UN was assigned new tasks that the organisation had not previously had. Operations have been much larger and the forces have been equipped with greater military capabilities than before. The UN had never previously had as a mandate to provide humanitarian assistance, as was the case in Somalia, nor to secure civilians, as was the mission in Bosnia. In Bosnia, the UN was given the role of protection of safe areas, which is a substitute for so-called neutral zones, which the Geneva Convention provides. These so-called safe areas would be part of supporting the humanitarian work in Bosnia, but the areas were never completely demilitarised. Just as little as the International Red Cross could guarantee neutrality in the individual zones of Bosnia, the UN could protect the inhabitants of these enclaves. We all know the outcome: thousands of Muslims were killed by Bosnian-Serbian forces and buried in mass graves. We have also seen other examples of situations in which humanitarian aid workers have been drawn into conflict. Unfortunately, both in Somalia and in Sierra Leone, aid workers from the Red Cross have been designated as targets for acts of violence and terrorism. Governments have little influence on the relationship between the various humanitarian aid organisations, the United Nations and, for example, the United Nations. NATO in conflicts where all these organisations are involved. These organisations have very different roles in a conflict. Humanitarian workers may be dependent on military protection in order to carry out their duties. How can they at the same time discharge their obligations to act impartially and neutrally? We know that there may be a need for the international community to put power behind its demands in the form of military threats in the future as well. We cannot rule out NATO having to launch the military threat to Slobodan Milosevic in the Kosovo conflict. What efforts are being made to clarify different roles and improve cooperation between the different actors in this type of conflict? The right is concerned with the humanitarian challenges in our own neighbourhood. I am thinking first and foremost of the situation in North-West Russia. Most people should have found that this part of Russia, which is particularly vulnerable to climate change, is struggling with major social problems. Particularly vulnerable are those who are sick, elderly and children in children’s institutions. Yesterday’s headlines were a hearty example of how the situation can be in institutions in North-West Russia. Disabled people seem to be the ones who come in the very last row of Russian society. We can, of course, dismiss this, as the Progress Party does, saying that this is Russia's own responsibility. But the Right believes that the international community has a moral duty to fight distress. And it's no use what we see in Russia. In 1997 and 1998, the right proposed to allocate 80 million. SEK for an aid package to North-West Russia, aimed at, inter alia, hospitals, measures to treat children, not least in children’s institutions and those with mental retardation. We proposed that the aid package should also include support for the construction of humanitarian organisations across North-West Russia. When I bring this forward, it is precisely because such a project will meet all the criteria set by the Government for a renewed strategy for humanitarian aid. The project would have had a long-term perspective. Building up local voluntary organisations is not done in one day, but say in one year. By basing our work on local competences and resources, we can help build up organisations that will be able to carry out the kind of humanitarian aid actions such as these in the long term. The Red Cross of Norway stands for today. It would help self-help, because the area has to be expected to be affected by various crises for a long time in the future. It would be a democracy building project, because building civil and not least voluntary organisations in Russia is absolutely necessary in order for democracy to function properly. In the long term, perhaps the local and regional organisations in Russia themselves could do too much of the prevention work, so that we did not get the urgent needs for relief missions with food and clothing from Norway. Such a project would fit into the hands of all that the Minister of Aid has said about humanitarian work in his presentation. Therefore, we are increasingly amazed that the Government is not willing to see the possibilities in such a bet. I therefore look forward to the debate that will result from the interpellation that Mr Svein Ludvigsen has reported to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on humanitarian aid to North-West Russia. This debate will, as you know, be held on 3 March.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e355	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e358	I also look forward to the debate we are going to have on the consultation of the Right-wing Representative Svein Ludvigsen on assistance to North-West Russia. And I listened with interest to Siri Frost Sterri's almost tearful story about and account of the feature on TV last night about Norsk Folkehelp's children's home in Murmansk and about the need to strengthen both humanitarian efforts and other types of efforts in just north-west Russia. And then my question becomes very concrete, because the Right joined with the government parties and the Progress Party at the budgetary procedure in December and cut down on appropriations for just Russia and Eastern Europe, with the consequence that according to a number of organisations that have addressed themselves, among other things. to the Workers' Party, now the end of the appropriations for Russia and Eastern Europe — including this orphanage, including some absolutely necessary environmental projects in North-West Russia. The Minister of Foreign Affairs answered me in his spontaneous questioning a little over a week ago that he would come back to Stortinget with this matter. We hope that this happens before the orphanage is laid down and before other projects are stopped. But I would like to ask Siri Frost Sterri quite specifically: is it not that the Right has a direct responsibility for the budgetary agreement, among other things. Does this mean that we have such a low amount in the appropriations for North-West Russia and Eastern Europe as we have for 1999?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e363	I just want to start by correcting Marit Nybakk at one point: I did not try on a ‘torture-driving story’ about what I saw on TV yesterday, but I do not hide that it seemed hearty what we saw, and I got the most important part of the message in relation to what we can do from the Norwegian side, namely that there is a lack of money. As Marit Nybakk is well known, the Right on its own behalf presented a primary draft budget in the Stortinget which contained completely different appropriations than those adopted in the budget. But we take responsibility for the compromise that was reached. She would also remind me that in that budget debate I made three conditions for the Right-wing acceptance of the cuts in the budget line for Eastern Europe and North-West Russia that we became acquainted with. The Minister for Foreign Affairs replied with confirmation that they were also the basis for the understanding we had reached on this point. So now he's recognized that the amount of funding is in no way going to go to, despite the fact that he meant it in December. We have already several times, and relatively loud, given to know the need for additional appropriations, just to ensure that work in North-West Russia in particular does not stop. I would like to remind you that in the budget debate too I was concerned about the signal effect of such a large cut, although in the opinion of the Minister for Foreign Affairs it would not have any practical consequences for the work. But it can look like it's happening now, and we're going to go strongly in order for this budget line to be strengthened so that work can be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e370	When Siri Frost Sterri places emphasis on relieving the distress in the neighbourhoods, I would like to ask whether this is going to be at the expense of distress elsewhere, for example. in Africa. It has been a matter of course for us in the Christian People's Party to give priority to the poorest. It's not that the distress is not great in the neighbourhoods, but we've wanted to give priority to Africa, and I want to ask whether the Right will stand by this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e375	Let me first make it clear that the Right too believes that, in the spirit of solidarity, we must be involved in emergency areas around the world, and emergency aid will never be tightened up. But what we have said – and where there is a fundamental difference between the aid policy of the Christian People's Party and the Right – is that we need to concentrate efforts, and we should first of all go deeper into areas where we have good conditions to provide such assistance. In other words, we're less concerned about how much aid is in percent of GDP than the Christian People's Party is. They're completely paralysed by these percentages. So it doesn't help that parts of the assistance provided in Europe and in our neighbourhoods don't fall below this percentage. We are committed to providing assistance, and we need to concentrate our efforts, and we want a higher priority for our neighbourhoods, both in the interests of our neighbours and in the interests of ourselves, because it helps to secure our own security. This means – it will be possible to read out many years of budgets from the Right of the Storting – that we are in favour of a stronger focus on efforts in several of the regions where the Christian People's Party lubricates the funds thinly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e380	It's just a very simple question, it's not very important either, but for history it can be very important to have it in the protocol. For as I now understand the internal discussions in relation to the budgetary agreement, it was the government party that insisted on a strong reduction in humanitarian efforts in Russia. That must be the simple and clear conclusion. Now, as Elsa Scarbøvik, there's some skepticism about changing this because there's a fear that it's going to go beyond other areas. But it's hard to allow money for everyone so that it's enough. Some places have to choose, and we have chosen to bet on Russia. I understand that the Right has done the same, and I will only be able to confirm that it is the government party that has insisted on reducing Russia's cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e385	I am a little surprised at the brief memory of the representative of Blankenborg. Short-term memory must be very limited when he is unable to recall what we were going through in the budget debate on this issue. We already saw when the government submitted its budget proposal that they had cut the appropriations by 200 million. kr to this budget chapter. They had just added 200 million. in an undertaking authority, because they themselves claimed that there was no great need for money. What happened between the centremates – as we often say – at least outside this room – or between representatives of the centre parties in the finance committee, was that they made further cuts, which were then presented to the Right and the Advance Party in what was to form the basis for a compromise. And it was through conversations before we concluded these negotiations that three conditions were imposed on the Right so that we could accept this. For the Labour Party will also be aware that for several years, the Right has become a spokesman for a stronger effort in these areas, and where we have wanted to allocate more money than both the Labour Party and the Centre parties have been willing to do. The three conditions were included in the budget debate in December, and it was confirmed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that they were the basis for what we had agreed on. So he now realizes that some of the assumptions fail, and he has promised to come back to Stortinget with this case. That is what we are waiting for, and the right will be supporting a proposal for supplementary appropriations, if that is the real problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e392	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e395	We must be able to draw the conclusion of the small budget debate we have now experienced, that, given that the right in other contexts is very concerned with highlighting those parts of the budgetary conciliation that taste very good, it must also mean that the Right must be involved and take its share of the responsibility for what may not taste as well. At the same time, the comprehensive statement on humanitarian aid sets out the context of our overall international efforts in the aid sector. This recognition requires, in the opinion of the Centre Party, that we should see more fully our overall international commitment and that the demand for quality, efficiency and national and international coordination become important elements in a comprehensive strategy for Norway's international efforts for reconciliation, peace, development and more direct humanitarian aid. The Minister for Development and Human Rights, in his presentation on ten points, presented what I would call a sub-strategy on humanitarian aid. Such a strategy that outlines the objectives and principles of Norway’s international involvement in an important area can undoubtedly be a decent tool in its efforts to improve preparedness, ensure the effective implementation of operations and strengthen the coordination of humanitarian aid. Humanitarian aid amounts to slightly less than 20 pst. of our overall assistance. In the course of seven years, the appropriations for such assistance have doubled. And as explained by the Council of State: increased appropriations for humanitarian aid have not been primarily a political objective; it is the need for such an effort that has increased so strongly in recent years. It is this trend that needs to be reversed so that a greater proportion of the overall aid budget can be released for development. Here the need for the overall strategy is made clear. For example, conflict resolution and peacekeeping operations become important steps in the process of avoiding human tragedies, which in turn require extensive humanitarian assistance from the world community. This is also how Norwegian efforts in the fight against anti-personnel mines and the use of child soldiers in war and the control of small arms become an important part of an overall strategy to alleviate emergencies and limit the need for humanitarian aid. There must also be a targeted interaction between emergency and development assistance. Developments pose a lesser risk to emergency situations and emergency aid may be a prerequisite for a development process. Therefore, it is appropriate that the Minister for Development and Human Rights should settle the watering down and replace what she referred to as the ‘two-part perspective’, the ‘artificial distinction’ with a comprehensive strategy that implies that emergency aid and development are seen in the context. The Central Party believes that the international coordination of humanitarian aid must be directed by the United Nations, which has its own coordinator for humanitarian matters. When the presentation announces political and financial support for increased UN coordination, it is a signal that the Government intends to follow up a strategy that has greater efficiency and better coordination as its objective. In the United Nations system, there is a need for both new mechanisms and stronger leadership. It's just the United Nations that has the authority to be able to take on such a task. That is why it is so important to ensure that the UN reform process continues, including: with the objective of prioritising the United Nations leadership. The Norwegian people have shown great willingness to sacrifice in support of Norwegian humanitarian efforts in relation to natural and environmental damage, famine and war. Many Nordics also participate in the many voluntary organisations involved in emergency work. In the context of collection actions and in the discussion on Norwegian humanitarian aid, there is one question that is raised each time with great emphasis: can we be sure that the help reaches those who need it? A prerequisite for maintaining the will to sacrifice in the Norwegian people is that a clear yes to this question can be answered. Both the authorities and the help organisations have realised this, and today it is very important to be able to document the arrival of the relief missions, including: by having on-site personnel who can confidently ensure that the assistance really reaches those who need it. This also shows how important it is that both general development assistance and humanitarian aid are subject to efficiency requirements and control procedures that allow people to feel secure that both tax money and the funds provided for the more action-oriented collections reach the target audience and are effectively used for the benefit of those in need. Norwegian humanitarian aid shall be characterised, inter alia, by: by close and comprehensive cooperation between the authorities and voluntary organisations. It is no exaggeration to claim that this cooperation is a cornerstone of Norwegian humanitarian aid. The Council of State mentioned its efforts towards Guatemala as an example of the wide range of the Norwegian model of cooperation. The ‘Norwegian model’, which includes, in addition to humanitarian aid, peace and reconciliation work and support for social and economic development, should be further developed. I note that the organisation Redd Barna is also responding positively to the signal that the Government will reconsider the management of the support to the voluntary organisations with a view to providing organisations with greater predictability and better opportunity to provide the humanitarian effort with a long-term perspective. The presentation addresses one of the most difficult and sensitive issues related to Norwegian aid policy, namely the many dilemmas faced in specific emergency situations: what ideal requirements should we set for our emergency aid, for example. with regard to the enforcement of human rights? Can the aid help create new lines of conflict? Can humanitarian aid prolong regional conflicts? Can extensive relief over time conflict with the principle of self-help? The questions are many, and there is no simple fascist response to all these challenges. Finding the right balance between the human rights enforcement requirement and the need for emergency aid is difficult. One must, of course, do so in order to avoid the unintended effects of our assistance, and one must be able to demand that elementary human rights be respected, and in particular the possibility of controlling distribution and distribution. Against such a background, it is positive that the Government warns that the dimension of human rights in the international relief work should be strengthened. On the other hand, if one is not willing to run any risk, or if one chooses to rely on the ideal claim in all contexts, it will mean that our opportunities to provide humanitarian aid and help people in need will be greatly reduced. The main principle must be that people are initially in need of help in any case, and that a system of obvious democratic deficits cannot be an obstacle to showing fellow humanity and solidarity with people who have been unscathed by disaster. It is interesting and positive to record that the assistance policy of the central government gives rise to international supervision and recognition. This applies, inter alia, to: the indebtedness plan to which the Stortinge agreed in the 1999 budget. In the recent International Monetary Fund report, the IMF, the Government receives recognition for its development assistance, while encouraging Norway to increase its support to 1 pst. of GNI. The slogan of a commentary article on the theme in The Washington Post on 24 January is also to be noted. The article in the recognised paper has the following title: ‘List two little Norway’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e432	Hilde Frafjord Johnson gave a good account of humanitarian aid, a statement that, in my opinion, also covers the centre-left alliance that holds Norwegian aid, Norwegian humanitarian aid during other Himmelstrøk, up. I have very few comments on it and should therefore rather use the post to cultivate one point that I believe is the most important and general one, and that is that we must then change the doctrine of Norwegian aid towards politics, it must be politicised. To use a quote from President Mao who was popular during the cultural revolution in China: we have to take politics as the key element. We must begin to think of our entire assistance based on our political objectives, and I will cultivate it in this post in order to make the point clear. It has been popular to think that poverty creates war and that poverty creates bad politicians. But the opposite is much more true: war and bad politicians create poverty. And everyone understands, of course, that there is also an opposite context: if there is an economic downturn in a country, it also becomes more often the basis for demagogic politicians of the type Slobodan Milosevic and others. But it is still the policy that is crucial. Let me point out three reasons why we so little have understood this in the last few years. One is what can be called the Christian social-democratic humanitarian tradition of which we all – except the Progress Party – are part. That tradition has pointed out giving direct help to the poor, so to speak, giving biscuits directly to them, as the main thing. Secondly, on the left, there is an influence from a Marxist tradition based on the fact that the economy is the basics of society, and that politics is, in effect, a reflection of the economy of the traditional concept of basic and superstructure. This also has its mirror image on the right, where the social economy has needed through as the prevailing ideology, and where socio-economic thinking has been dominant. All these traditions have worked in the same direction, towards a very strong tendency to see the economy as the basic and the policy as a reflection. I believe that we need to change this dramatically and see the opposite: the policy is the key. Let me just do some examples. Sudan and Angola were mentioned in previous posts. I would like to ask the Minister for Aid to come back to Angola in his speech. Is there anything the international community can now do to avert a total disaster and a full war in Angola? And we can continue: the so-called Great Lakes area is an obvious example, Somalia, Sierra Leone, Congo, Rwanda, Burundi – almost every area in Africa that is really poor is war and conflict a contributing cause. In some cases it is easy to see pretty small things that could have been done, and that would have averted it all, and thus averted gigantic humanitarian problems. There is almost unison agreement today that if a small peace-building force had been deployed in Rwanda – no bigger than the one being deployed to save the whites out of the inferno – with the mandate to stop the genocides, it would have been possible to stop them. I don't think anyone with knowledge of Rwanda disagrees with that perspective. In other words, if we had gone into 1994, we would have avoided a massive disaster that is going to affect Rwanda for decades to come, and which is likely to contribute to new conflicts. We now also know from Russian archives that there were two Russian politicians – nothing more, just two, Gromyko and Andropov – who made the decision to deploy Russian troops into Afghanistan. Both believed that the Russian forces that were put back at Christmas would be out again the following summer, i.e. half a year later. Androphov had been an ambassador in Hungary during the Russian invasion there, and from his experience he thought that Afghanistan would be a similar short-term adventure. Had anything been done at that time to stop this, 18 years of war in Afghanistan had been avoided. Perhaps the same would have been the case in Angola too: Had Savimbis had had enough black Mercedess in the early 1990s and had a guaranteed role in a future Angolan system, it could be – I know less about Angola – that the war there could have been avoided. The point is at least obvious: we have to go into politics. This also applies to countries where there is no war, but where policy is paralysed by conflicts. For example: Zambia, one of our most important aid countries, does nothing a day because the two leading political figures in the country spend all the time and all the effort to fight each other. Cambodia – there are now very positive signs that Norway will be more involved with assistance there – is another example of a country where the political crisis needs to be resolved and help the political parties to cooperate, if we are to move on at all. The Balkans are also an obvious example in this respect. I want to pay tribute to the Minister of Aid for bringing forward what happened in Rwanda after the genocide as an example of crazy handling by the international community. It was nothing less than a humanitarian crime. What happened was the following – and a lot is related to what Haakon Blankenburg here talked about earlier as well: Because there were no TV images from the genocide itself, all the TV teams came to the refugee camps afterwards, and what the international aid organizations did then was to create better conditions in these refugee camps than what was the situation in Rwanda, from which people had fled. It was wrong. But much, much worse, the international community saved the genocides. They moved the entire state administration from the eastern parts of Rwanda to Tanzania, from the western parts of Rwanda to what is now Congo, and maintained the very same structures there under international protection. So the genocides were rescued by the combination of peace forces, non-governmental organisations and TV cameras, instead of entering and disarming them, which, of course, was the only thing – it's easy to say – that would make sense. Norway has special assumptions — perhaps not as a humanitarian superpower, perhaps not even as a humanitarian power, but at least as a humanitarian power. The Oslo process makes Norway’s name known all over the globe. Some people say that it requires unimaginable resources. But the Oslo process was four people! The whole six months this really went on, until the fall of 1993, there were four people who were engaged in this – the ministers came in later. It wasn't particularly resource-intensive. But the Oslo process had a number of different assumptions, namely that we have a close relationship between NGOs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Norway – what is called the ‘Norwegian model’, and it still exists – and a close relationship with the United States, which is crucial for conflict resolution in most places on the globe, since the United States is the only superpower. It helps constructively that we are not members of the EU, because we do not need to coordinate with others, it also helps people to know that the Norwegian state has money, so that we can go into a post-conflict situation and contribute financially, and it is of course crucial that in very few conflict areas on the globe, Norway has its own economic or strategic interests. If we add up all of these factors, it actually makes us so unfamiliar to think that Norway has a lot of places on the globe that have very special prerequisites for playing a role as a humanitarian force, as a solution to conflict and reconciliation. We have done that in the Middle East, we have done that in Guatemala, there are trials in countries like Colombia, Cyprus, in some countries in Central America and the Caribbean. This is a way forward, but it also requires that we turn resources from traditional assistance and traditional emergency aid and on to the political processes. Let me give you examples of what we should do more of, while doing less of other things. I also mean – to say it in passing – that we are poorly organised. The Ministry of Assistance should be placed under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there should be one management. This is not a personal criticism of the Minister for Aid, but a structural problem. The fact that there are two structures in many areas contributes to a lack of coordination. And since politics is crucial, there should be one management of Norwegian policy in the Third World and for Norwegian aid in the Third World – but it will have to come back to a future government if possible. So, as I said, it's not a criticism of the two people in this system, it's a structural problem. What we can help to do is to address early warning and early conflict resolution where conflicts are under resolution. We can contribute much more to mediation in conflicts that already exist, we can contribute much more to putting a political pressure on transparency and getting the media into conflict areas – that is, as I said, the best guarantee against abuse, and almost always a better guarantee than different forces. We can support political processes where there are politicians who actually want peace and reconciliation – Burundi is a very good example of that at the moment. So in Burundi, the most central politicians really have, to put it in English, 'commited themselves' – what is it called in Norwegian?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e464	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e472	...commit to peace – thank you for your help! – and the international community responded with the boycott of these politicians. It's completely pointless. So there's a country where it's not possible to talk to the regime, at least not from the Norwegian side, and where the right thing might be to support the opposition, like in Burma. But all in all, these are elements of a policy. To conclude with what was the beginning, which is the conclusion: let's take policy as the key element and design a policy doctrine for Norwegian aid and humanitarian action.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e484	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e487	The representative, Solheim, is raising an interesting debate about what he himself mentioned earlier today as the politicization of Norwegian aid in a reply. I share many of the views that Solheim has in that area. But I can't hold back the remark that I think Solheim is something absolute and categorical and perhaps a little too principled on that issue, because one had to get the impression both of the line change and of the post that Solheim is now creating a doctrine that almost has the principle that Norwegian assistance should be politicized. I hope that Solheim is prepared to modify this principle a bit, because there can be no doubt that there will be situations where it might be directly detrimental to our ability to provide emergency aid that a party chooses in conflicts, even if it is to be admitted that there are situations where there are so obvious inconsistencies in what is happening, that such a choice must be made. This debate has also raised the question of extending the concept of aid, in particular as regards humanitarian aid, that it should also include peace and reconciliation work. I can take this example from Guatemala, as the Minister mentioned in his statement: if Norway should unilaterally choose sides and support one side in similar conflicts, will that not, in Solheim's view, make it difficult to do reconciliation work?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e494	We're in line here. My point is not that Norway should choose sides in most countries where there is conflict. There are some examples where we should obviously do that, like Burma, but in most places we should take sides for peace and reconciliation and conflict resolution. Our main task is to help parties and politicians who want to. Burundi is an obvious example, Guatemala is another. Norway did not eventually choose sides in Guatemala even though we had a long tradition of supporting the left-wing guerrilla. Gradually, we also included in our contributions generals from the death squadrons who had controlled the same guerrilla. In Burundi, it is about helping and supporting politicians who themselves want peace and reconciliation – that is, the President of the country and the President of the National Assembly, who belong to Tutsi and Hutu – and helping to give them the opportunity to create peace and reconciliation. Then, of course, you have to distance yourself from those who want something completely different. In Cambodia, it's the same thing. It's obvious that we're taking 110 pst. distance from Pol Pot's genocides. I have to say in passing that it is incredible that a Norwegian newspaper, namely the class struggle, last Saturday brought an article where Jan Myrdal, across a whole page, boasted of his personal friendship with those who stood for the genocide in Cambodia. If, for example: Someone had boasted of their close connection to Hitler and his wife -- yes, he had no wife before the last few days -- or to Himmler and his wife, so it would provoke disgust at everyone. But no one even responds to anyone boasting that they are close friends of Khieu Samphan and his wife, the worst genocides in Cambodia. Of course, we're going to take a distance from them. On the other hand, we are to support politicians in Cambodia such as Hun Sen, Prince Ranaridh and Sam Rainsy, the leaders of the three main political groups, and to help them find a peace and reconciliation process for Cambodia. Then, too, the economic prosperity of Cambodia will gradually come. But the opposite is not the case. If we run humanitarian economic projects in rural Cambodia, while there is no peace in Phnom Penh, there will be an eternal conflict in that country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e503	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e506	The Minister for Aid gave a broad and thorough account of the Stortinget, which is the basis for the debate we have here today. The debate shows that there is little disagreement in the Storting on the issues raised by the Minister for Aid. What has been largely discussed are small nuances and some supplements, and perhaps especially in the last article also a development of some reasoning in the lengthening of the presentation. At the same time, the presentation and debate in Stortinget today show that general political principles are important in terms of assistance, including in relation to humanitarian aid issues. Conflict prevention, democratisation, openness and knowledge of what is happening, not accepting the wishes of the rulers of closure, the development of an international legal society and the prevention of environmentally harmful activities are important issues in the presentation and good tradition of the party I represent, but certainly also in most other parties in this room. Therefore, it is not very difficult for me to join what has been part of the main essence of Erik Solheim's and Marit Nybakk's lines to Elsa Scarbøvik, and which was also central to Erik Solheim's contributions, namely that humanitarian aid is also a policy, and that there are issues of political considerations and priorities. In this context, in view of the fact that this also has to do with more general policies, it may be a point to emphasise that it is also a question of exploiting the advantage of different actors and drawing on the involvement and knowledge of non-governmental organisations. At the centre of the presentation and in the debate have also been issues of coordination, efficiency and use of the UN – that this is also important in relation to humanitarian aid. There may be a point to make, as Johan J. Jakobsen did, and stress that Norwegian aid is given good publicity and attention in the international community, and there may be a point here to stress that what is given great attention and attention, probably also a policy that has broad support in the Grand Duchy. I would like to take a closer look at some of the items. The reason for situations requiring humanitarian aid is often man-made. What becomes most direct and clear is the case where conflict and war are the background to the emergencies requiring humanitarian aid. But there is also reason to take inward what is stated in the statement that the major natural disasters have increased in number and extent, and that this may have a basis in our own behavior as to how we relate to nature. The need for humanitarian aid in a number of contexts therefore illustrates in a brutal way the importance of much better environmental work both nationally and internationally. In addition to what is more directly and perhaps indirectly linked to man-made conditions, it is of course also a point that a good number of natural disasters are not the direct result of human-made activities. In the light of these assumptions, there is reason to stress the importance of conflict prevention and peace-building. The growing need for humanitarian aid as a result of conflict and war shows that this is a very central task. In this context, there may be grounds for highlighting the role of the OSCE and the importance of its work in relation to conflict prevention and peace-making in a number of places and in a number of situations. There may be reason to point out that developing similar organisations and similar work in other regions of the world could also be a clear point. There may also be reason to stress that countries in each region themselves will have to take responsibility for that type of conflict prevention work. There is also reason to stress that democratisation and transparency are important also in terms of preventing and providing transparency and an overview of humanitarian disasters. Then, to exemplify a little, there can be reason, on the one hand, to highlight the situation in North Korea, where a completely closed dictatorship prevents one from getting an insight into the situation, and to be able to contribute in a particularly effective way in relation to the situation and to alleviate it, possibly providing a basis for a different situation in the future. On the other hand, we can highlight developments in South Africa as a very good example of how democratisation creates a much better basis for less conflict and for a completely different social development. In addition, I would also like to highlight the issue of the development of an international legal order. The Nuremberg process is gradually 50 years old, but its principles have been followed up in relation to two areas of conflict in recent times, in Rwanda and Yugoslavia respectively. There is every reason to emphasise as an important element in this that we have now established an international criminal court. It is therefore important to follow up and ensure that this court is able to address and implement the cases. But there is also a dilemma and a danger in this – as it is among other things. have been pointed out in a previous exchange of lines between Erik Solheim and me – namely that those involved in a conflict situation, via this, will be more reluctant to participate in resolving the conflict situations. Perhaps the solution to that dilemma is to establish a legal order that clearly highlights the fact that being active in resolving a conflict situation will actually be a very important element in a criminal measure. There may be one way to address that problem. Finally, let me highlight one aspect of humanitarian disasters, and that is the children's situation. Children will in many ways experience a double disaster associated with humanitarian disasters, because, first, it has direct effects in relation to their situation there and then, and second, because we know something about how basic the first years of life are in relation to one's adult life. A disaster, no matter what the background, will destroy the possibilities of meeting the basic needs of children in terms of food, care and education, which is important in relation to the entire life situation even in recent years. It's really hard for us to get into what it means for young children to experience the disasters and the cruelty of wars. That's why it's important that we take inwards the situation of children in such situations, and it's obvious that it's also about the question of preventing children from being used as soldiers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e527	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e530	I just want to get a little bit closer to a point that the representative Hove correctly pointed out in his post, that it is absolutely essential to look at the causes of distress and misery, that much of this is man-made. That's, of course, a point that everyone here agrees with today. But I also want to stay a little bit at another side. Historically, it's probably right to say that distress and misery are what has been the general thing, it's been the general rule of history. I expect that I have the representative Hove with me in this, but I ask anyway, isn't it just as right to look at the causes of wealth, what is it that creates wealth, and what societies succeed in creating wealth? In my opinion, this is a key feature, for example. private property, state of law, market, human rights, free trade, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e537	I can, to some extent, agree with some of the basics of what the representative Danielsen here said, namely, that when it comes to finding solutions, it can often be a point to go into what you succeed in, and ask the question: why do you succeed? It might be as good a basis for solution orientation as just being concerned about what's going wrong, what's going to fail. Now, that perspective may not always be the best in relation to exactly the disaster situations that make the greatest demands on humanitarian aid. There you will often have to go into the situation as it is there and then, and you won't be able to easily have the ideal claim as a background. But it was probably also a point in my post that I pointed to a number of basic premises that you should be able to succeed and succeed better than what you are doing today. I put the emphasis on democratization, openness and preventing environmental damage. I would clearly define this as more important than the examples that the representative Danielsen drew out. But they are not opposed to what the Left stands for, so for that matter, I could also focus on the market and private property rights, even though I would say that I would make them less prominent than the main points that I drew myself out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e544	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e548	When the Storting debated the notification of reforms in the United Nations system, we were concerned that the terrain has changed. The World Organization, founded on the tumultuous ruins of World War II in order to prevent war between nations, had to be restructured, among other things. in order to meet entirely different challenges than at the end of the 1940s. As the Council of State stressed in the presentation, most violent conflicts are today civil wars. Of 101 armed conflicts between 1989 and 1996, she said, there were only six wars between states. Many of these have ethnic and religious islets, and the ethnic conflicts are regionalized. Conflicts usually resolve at random intervals and change of conflict lines. These developments do not only change the structure and role of the United Nations. It is against this hindrance that we must also understand the violent growth of Norwegian humanitarian aid. We also need to understand why conflict resolution, peacemaking, democracy and institution building are so much more difficult now than before. In addition, it is important to say that support for humanitarian interventions may be absolutely necessary to prevent a humanitarian disaster, such as ours. could have been obtained in Kosovo whose thousands of people had remained in the mountains in the cold of winter. However, such interventions must be conditional on the existence of an international mandate and the absence of other attempts at solutions. The Council of State was also concerned in the presentation with the link between humanitarian aid and longer-term development assistance, whether bilateral assistance or assistance through the UN system. Let me problem this something. We can get an inflation of humanitarian efforts that will be long-term and prevent local initiatives for reconstruction and value creation. In Bosnia, for example, the number of employees of private relief organisations has become astronomical in relation to the other employment. Long-term aid and investment are disguised as humanitarian aid. ‘Non-government organisations’ are inconspicuously shifting to the same projects and actions as bilateral government assistance or UNDP programmes. These are issues that we should address and take a position on, and which I will also ask the Council of State to look into. Increasingly, the United Nations system and Norwegian private organisations are channels and practitioners of Norwegian humanitarian aid. Cooperation between authorities and organisations is often referred to as the ‘Norwegian model’. The Norwegian organisations have shown that they have the ability to make rapid decisions and quickly implement them. They also play very different roles — and we should admit that — from the neutrality line of the Red Cross to the more solidarity-provoking emergency aid of other organisations, as might be defined by the humanitarian efforts of Norwegian People's Aid in South Sudan. But this is not a new issue. For years, Norwegian solidarity organisations, in cooperation with the authorities, provided humanitarian assistance to the liberation movements in southern Africa, as I also mentioned in a reply. But it is probably the first time that a Norwegian relief organisation experiences its clearly marked hospitals being bombed, as Norsk Folkehelp in South Sudan has experienced on several occasions – on the part of the Sudanese authorities. The brutal genocide in Central Africa has shocked an entire world and strongly challenged the humanitarian organizations and the international community. I also think the Council of State should be commended for focusing on what went wrong in the humanitarian work of the so-called Great Lakes Area. When the United Nations Children's Convention in 1999 reaches its age of 10, it may also be appropriate to put a question mark on the world society's loss of life, not to say accident, on the assaults and human slaughter in this area, and on the fact that thousands of children have been used as soldiers. Otherwise, women and children make up 80 pst. by the so-called ‘displaced persons’ or internally displaced persons. I am also pleased that the Council of State is so clear that this must be given priority. This was also something that was very important at the Women's Conference in Beijing, and it is important that we actively follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e569	Humanitarian aid is aid to people in distress, distress due to disasters of different kinds, but also distressed by their own system of governance. Humanitarian aid must be immediate, but in addition, assistance must be provided as a precautionary measure to make it possible, potentially, to deal with everyday life – both for individuals and for society. This means, among other things: development of knowledge in the form of education that contributes to the long-term economic activity, work, performance and better living standards. Norway is known as a country filled with nativity, milk and honey. As a tradition, we have a relatively large amount of aid. In 1997, this amounted to more than 9 billion kroner. Some of the historical facts have to be said to be very honest with Norway, but many suggest that continued assistance after some of the same model will not solve the problems of each country. I refer to our partly long-term presence in countries like Sudan and Afghanistan. Our main objective must be to transfer sufficient knowledge so that each recipient nation and individual will achieve political and economic independence. This includes, of course, independence from Norwegian aid. On 10 June 1996 Stortinget St.meld. No 19 for 1995-96, A world changing. The message focused on basic social services, including education, where 10 pst. the Norwegian aid budget was to be earmarked for training projects. This amount would then be increased to 15 pst. the following years. In addition, all organisations receiving public funds were required to systematically evaluate the use of resources in order to demonstrate their own legitimacy. In 1997, as I said, development aid was allocated at the lower end of DKK 10 billion – 10 pst. of which, earmarked for educational purposes, it is at the base of NOK 1 billion. Since the 1970s it has been decided that development aid should be quality assured, at the latest in St.melding. No 19 as mentioned earlier, where the quality assurance element was made more clearly than ever before. The June 1996 discussion in the United Kingdom focused on effective and performance-oriented unhelp, and there was clear criticism of the method of evaluation. The Christian People's Party particularly stressed the importance of a critical and independent external evaluation rather than the continued use of traditional internal reviews. It is with regret that we see that contradictions between good intentions and realities are very visible in this area. Only 0,1 pst. of the amount allocated of DKK 10 billion in 1997 has been set aside for evaluation in general. In fact, there is no single ear for evaluating education as a new aid strategy. This is very regrettable, especially because NOK 1 billion has been used without quality assurance. However, evaluation manuals have been developed by both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and NORAD, but there are no instructions requiring NORAD and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to use them. In this context, I refer to a 1988 survey, where it was claimed that feedback to the administration and the population and the Storting had been sufficient. Unfortunately, the study also concluded that little internal systematic schooling based on evaluation results had taken place. Education has not been central to any study and an evaluation of the educational projects cannot be seen to have been on the agenda at all. The Progress Party therefore considers it necessary to ask what is meant by evaluation and quality assurance by Stortinget when it reaches 10 pst. of a total budget falls completely outside. Dr. Welle-Strand concludes in his study that there is a lack of clarity in the policy formulations on objectives and strategies. The Progress Party must therefore ask for the elimination of ambiguities and contradictions and that budgets clearly show a desire for evaluation and quality assurance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e588	First of all, a question from the representative of Blankenborg about budgetary rigour and the conflict between humanitarian aid and long-term aid is the real reason why we have chosen to make a humanitarian statement. The answer is no. The decision to make a statement on humanitarian issues and humanitarian aid was taken as themer progressed, and there are three reasons for it. One is the explosive increase in humanitarian crises that makes it necessary for us to think about what we are doing. Secondly, there is the need for an overall strategy to meet this new situation and to create a better structure in our work. And thirdly, it is that the Storting itself will have to discuss a field that has so far been handled to a large extent without too much parliamentary attention and in particular governance from here. These three reasons were the background to the strategy. Our humanitarian strategy will have little value as a theoretical concept. Its quality can only be tested in action. So let me start from a specific case, namely Sudan, after my visit to the country on 23 and 27 January. Paradoxically, the bombs fell over the Norwegian People's Aid hospital in Yei while I was discussing the peace process in the country with Sudanese authorities in Khartoum. From the Norwegian side, we have repeatedly protested against the bombing of civilian targets in South Sudan. It is not only unacceptable in itself, but also a clear violation of international humanitarian law. In my talks with Foreign Minister Mustafa Osman Ismail and the Minister for Social Planning, who is also responsible for the cooperation with the humanitarian organisations, Hassan Dhahawi, I just underlined this. This also illustrates the importance of its becoming, and must be, the continuation of the peace process. There is only peace between the opposing parties that can bring a final end to such bombings and other acts against the civilian population. During my stay I visited Wau in the South Sudan, which was one of the areas most badly affected by the famine last summer. There I was told that international humanitarian aid is useful. Thanks to a formidable effort by the United Nations system and the international and national relief agencies, thousands have been rescued from starvation. The contrast to last year's disaster situation – as I saw in self-esteem – was enormous. Then the centers were filled with distressed, suffering and dying people. Now they were almost empty, and the everyday life was once again becoming normal. The UN-led Operation Lifeline Sudan has played a key role in this comprehensive operation. It also plays an important role in coordinating the entire humanitarian aid effort, including voluntary organisations. In meetings with representatives of OLS both in Sudan and Nairobi, I have been thoroughly updated on the situation. Sudan is raining on record crops of grain this year. It is a paradox that the situation for those most at risk of famine in the south will not, however, be significantly improved. The crops in the south are small, and the situation is very vulnerable. Among the problems of transport and supply from the north, the need for assistance for 1999 will, in all likelihood, be as great as in 1998. If the military groups in the south once again increase their level of activity, the war may again throw hundreds of thousands into famine and great suffering. We are therefore prepared to increase our humanitarian aid significantly in short notice in order to combat a new disaster in Sudan. It has to do with our humanitarian responsibility. Are we helping with this to prolong the conflict? The question is as important as it is complicated. I discussed this with the humanitarian actors in Sudan. Humanitarian aid shall not be used in such a way as to allow authorities and parties to leave responsibility for helping and protecting their own people to international actors. It is unacceptable for humanitarian aid to be given to soldiers in battle, not to the victims of combat. Nor can it be accepted that humanitarian shipments are taxed locally, so that aid to recipients is reduced. This clear message comes both from the humanitarian organisations and from the donor society to the parties to the conflict. To some extent, better coordination between aid actors is likely to help. Also, an enhanced monitoring that continues right up to the last term will. We're dealing with this with all the actors. But it is only a political solution that can bring a final end to such paradoxes in humanitarian aid. This was the background to the Ministerial Delegation that I led to the region on behalf of the donor countries in the IGAD Partners Forum. The aim was to help advance the peace process within the IGAD, the regional cooperation organisation. The ceasefire for the Bahr al Ghazal area has now been extended until 15 April. This was confirmed in our meetings with both parties in the conflict. To both sides and to the Kenyan Minister for Foreign Affairs and Head of Negotiation Boyana Godana, we presented a package of proposals which, hopefully, can give the peace process a new injection and help to speed it up. The proposals are discussed at the Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting in IGAD in Djibouti this week. As part of the follow-up to the humanitarian strategy, we will now look at the possibilities to support actions that can contribute to capacity building, training and strengthening local structures on both sides of the conflict. Then to Angola, as the representative Solheim mentioned. The relationship between the government and UNITA is now so determined that there is clearly nothing to go further as long as the peace process is limited to these two. That is why we in Norway have said that UN observers should be given an extended mandate in order to give greater emphasis to contributing to reconciliation and MR measures on a broad scale in the country. We also want to help create a broader basis for the peace process by involving other groups such as church communities and civil society in a broad sense. A few months last year, Sudan was in focus. Still, the situation is being followed sporadicly by the international community — so far. But there are enough conflicts that are almost forgotten, both in terms of attention and international pressure to resolve the conflict, and not least in terms of resources. This applies, inter alia, to: conflicts we know from Sierra Leone, Congo-Brazzaville, Guinea Bissau, Somalia, the Comoros, Central Asia, Armenia and Azerbaijan, as the Blankenborg representative mentioned, and also Sri Lanka, just to name a few. In several of these countries, the international resource availability for assistance to those in need is very low. We have previously given assistance to the victims of many of these crises and will continue to do so. It's our duty. One of the key factors in contributing to the effectiveness of the support is international coordination and coordination. It is also one of the most important reasons why we believe that, on the Norwegian side, we should give higher priority to those conflicts and areas that are given low priority in the international donor community. Nevertheless, we may have to do some painful priorities, which many people have been involved in here today. In order to avoid too many such choices, it is essential that the overall international aid effort be maintained and that any increase be made. This is not least evident in the scale of natural disasters. The importance of prevention in this area cannot be strongly emphasised. Let me mention a special field, and it's about water. Water resources will be one of the biggest potential issues in the future, not least after the millennium, both in relation to potential natural disasters and in relation to political conflicts. Water scarcity and prevention through water management will be a key factor in avoiding humanitarian crises in many parts of the world. The government will give high priority to this work. We are already in the Middle East when it comes to water negotiations, providing support for water management in several countries. We have also given a clear signal of bet in this field in the SADCC region for example. prevention of water conflicts and now looks at different projects. This will have conflict prevention effects and contribute to greater resilience to natural disasters. Water is going to be a bet area from our side. The combination of fewer resources from the international community, more actors in the field and increased needs due to multiple conflicts and disasters is alarming. The result will be less help for suffering people in most crises. That's why we've said so clearly that one has to change the form of work. It will give more help for each of the heads, and therefore also the ability to help more people. The focus on increased coordination means that the Government will now increase support for the main coordination function in the humanitarian field of the United Nations system, OCHA, for 1999. The voluntary organisations too will have to adapt to this new reality, this new coordinated, close effort and our humanitarian strategy, precisely to ensure that we are helped as much as possible for each krona. At the same time, we have announced that we will look at new forms of agreement with the voluntary organisations. I now want to inform you that we are going to set up a working group where the ministry, together with representatives of the voluntary organisations, will look into how this can happen in practice. I would also like to make an assessment of the Norwegian model, as the representative Blankenborg had to say, especially in relation to the operator function. This also concerns the important issue raised by the representative Nybakk, namely the role of NGOs in the reconstruction of a country, which is not unproblematic. Short to two issues raised by two representatives: The representative of Frost Sterri was concerned about the development of North-West Russia. Let me, in order to avoid misunderstandings, draw attention to the importance of helping those in need in our neighbourhood. I believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will also underline and come back later to Stortinget – which he is going to do in the interpellation context. Here I also know that there is a process going on in the Nordic Council. So to the representative Solheim who launched a new political doctrine in his post. For information it is not that there are two departments that function, but one department with one office. As for the doctrine, I see that the time has come, but I also see that the representative Solheim has asked for a reply, so I expect that I can comment on his doctrines in my reply to him.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e634	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e637	Let me first commend the Council of State for putting the humanitarian situation in Central Africa at the centre of her presentation and for clearly stressing it, for example. For Rwanda — the total miscarriage of the international community and the lack of ability to see what happened when they should have done so. I also want to commend her for taking up the situation in Sudan, and have noticed that the government is prepared to go in at short notice if necessary. I would also like to commend the Council of State for the problematisation in its presentation of providing humanitarian aid to Afghanistan, with the cruel repression of women now taking place in that country. In one area – the Council of State forgives me for taking this up once again – however, the presentation of the Council of State was very tense. In the post she had now, it was mentioned in a epistle. It's about the humanitarian aid to Russia. We know that it's there, especially in North-West Russia, it's probably the most urgent need for assistance right now. At the same time, however, Russia's assistance for the current year is the most underfunded of all aid measures by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would like to ask whether this means depriving measures – humanitarian aid, emergency aid and reconstruction – in our neighbourhoods. It is doing a lot of good in many other areas, and the Council of State also mentioned some forgotten conflicts, but Russia, which is by no means forgotten by the political environment and by no means by the media, is the alarming silence about it. We do not yet know when the department will come back to Stortinget to ensure that there will be more funding for the projects that now seem to have to be cut off.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e644	I share Marit Nybakk's commitment to North-West Russia. However, I want to bring in a shade when she says she thinks it's one of the worst areas, and where there's the greatest need – if that's the way I quote it, at least the representative indicated a scale here that I probably won't be able to agree with. Those who know the situation in many areas of the rest of the world know that there are a lot worse elsewhere, where people actually die every day. Nevertheless, there is no reason to suggest that the situation in North-West Russia is serious. There were two reasons for the priority given to the budget, namely that there had been large transfers in the previous budgets, that the funds had not been used up, and, secondly, that it would be possible to avoid the needs of creating a drawing authorisation for the post of Eastern Europe. Now we're recording that there's a pressure on the appropriations. I have registered that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is aware of this, and also that there should be an interpellant debate on it. I don't think it's right to go into it more closely, but I just want to stress that of course we're concerned about this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e651	What the budgetary conciliation probably also taught Minister of Development and Human Rights Frafjord Johnson is that in terms of assistance, there is no Sarepta pot. Taking off and using is not an exhaustive resource. What is the point of the Minister’s presentation is precisely that of improving the effectiveness of assistance. In this way, I think there are a number of interesting ideas in the presentation, which, if they are further developed and put into practice, can have great political value. What I want to ask her specifically is the point I made earlier today. She said in her statement: ‘Today, most of the humanitarian aid is provided in a difficult political landscape, often in areas where armed conflict continues. We seem to be facing not only a new picture of conflict, but also a new picture of disaster. This has changed the assumptions for what has traditionally been called emergency aid.’ What will the Minister do to contribute to concrete policies and actions towards turning funds into prevention and peacekeeping operations? The second question I would like to ask concerns the point she made in her speech today, that it is unacceptable for aid to be given to soldiers in battle. There's something absolutely everyone agrees on. My question is then: what will the Minister do with Zimbabwe, which is engaged in extensive warfare in neighbouring countries, and which receives substantial Norwegian aid?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e665	The representative Danielsen refers to a new picture of conflict and disaster, and asks what we will do on the prevention side. It is interesting that the Progress Party is asking this question, because they have largely opposed the most preventive measures by cutting dramatically the aid budget we have available. If we are to be able to prevent conflicts and natural disasters, which are partly man-made, we need the means to do so, the means of peace and reconciliation, which both Solheim and I ourselves are concerned about, and not least the means of long-term action. Let me mention, among other things. one of the things we do in Bangladesh and Vietnam. There, we facilitate the installation of cyclone alert systems that can help reduce the damage caused by disasters. We also look at how we can develop better preparedness systems, and at actions that can be included in the long-term bilateral cooperation with our countries of cooperation. Such measures are important to prevent the scale of damage that could result from natural disasters and can help to save lives. In terms of peace and reconciliation measures, resources and resources are needed to do this, whether it is a course for journalists and the media in relation to the free press, or there are more extensive support measures for reconciliation processes in a country that often has to do with social and economic conditions. I am pleased that the representative Danielsen has now got the right focus, and I expect that the Progress Party will later be able to support our desire to increase assistance for such actions. As far as Zimbabwe is concerned, the situation is that we are in the process of turning, and in part we have already turned our aid in the country against measures to promote democracy and human rights, and against measures that can help to remedy the situation in that country, among other things. in relation to some critical episodes a few weeks ago. As regards the military involvement of Zimbabwe, there is still mediation there. And as long as the mediation is in progress, we see no reason to draw drastic conclusions in this area for the time being.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e676	I am pleased that the Council of State, through the exchange of lines in today's debate, has at least clearly stated that she also sees the need for active emergency aid and humanitarian aid to North-West Russia. Now I will not take this up in my line to her, although I think it is more than remarkable that this was totally omitted in her statement. But when that is said, I find reason to stress, whether it should not be clear to the Council of State from before, the broad satisfaction it is in the Grand Duchy with the statement she has made, which is the basis for the debate. Governments have some approaches in areas in which there may be every reason to go deeper into. I am thinking here of the relationship with the voluntary organizations, which are doing both a fantastic and absolutely necessary effort as part of the humanitarian aid work. The Council of State underlines the need for coordination and coordination. I very much agree with that, but then in the light of what we have been discussing earlier in the debate, namely that humanitarian aid is also a policy. The Council of State made a statement stating that some aid organisations are politically choosing sides in conflicts. How does the Council of State view this in relation to what she herself has just stressed, the need for coordination and coordination in aid work?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e683	Let me just briefly comment on the so-called omission of North-West Russia. It is linked to this issue being addressed in presentations by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It was duly mentioned in his statement about our neighbourhoods, and it will also be in the course. With regard to the role of voluntary organisations, some non-governmental organisations choose a so-called solidarity line, i.e. a form of engaging in conflict. Taking a fundamental position on this I think is quite difficult, not least in the light of the fact that we have had a tradition from the Norwegian side, among other things. in order to support the ANC and their allies through the anti-apartheid struggle, and there is no doubt that much of the assistance provided by Norway, partly through hidden channels, had a significant impact on the ability of the ANC to take up the fight with the apartheid regime in South Africa. A principal settlement with this – saying that it is wrong to choose a page – I therefore believe that I would be wrong. It also runs counter to what we have had as a line previously from the Norwegian side. It will also be land-use-dependent in some cases, and therefore I find it difficult to go in and generally comment on whether or not to do so in specific cases, then we need more time. But let me mention that when you choose sides, it doesn't have to have anything to do with the authorities' attitude. In the case of Norwegian People's Aid and South Sudan e.g. I say very clearly that it is Norsk Folkehelp's own responsibility which political position they want to have. We have our line from the authorities, but we have chosen to use, among other things. this organisation as a channel for reaching with the help of even more people in need in this country. It's been the line and the attitude of our side in this concrete case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e692	The council ordered a line, and she'll get it. My intention in this debate has been to cultivate the perspective that Norwegian aid must be politicised. Of course, there are many elements of it already in the State Council's presentation and also in the thinking that has shaped Norwegian humanitarian aid in recent years. I think we need to draw this out more clearly and make ourselves aware of what choices it's facing us. Let me mention three, and let me take Sudan as an example because that's what the Council of State has been most concerned about today. The first is the obvious, that in Sudan it is essential to resolve the political conflict, not at all times to resolve the humanitarian disasters. At the moment we have limited resources, we should put them into the political conflict if there is any way to help solve it, also because so many other donors are going to be involved in the humanitarian aspects. It's much easier to get money for it than to get money for the political process. But then there's another choice you have to make in Sudan. Is there a country where to choose sides, as we do in Burma and as we did in South Africa, or is there a country where to create peace and reconciliation between two parties? It is possible that we can do both, but I am somewhat doubtful whether it is possible for Norway to play a role in Sudan as long as we choose to do both. I can be wrong about this, because my knowledge of Sudan is not very detailed. But as long as a large and heavy Norwegian aid organisation with Norwegian state money goes deep and clear on one side, I am doubtful whether it is possible for the Norwegian Minister of Assistance and the Norwegian State to play the role of reconciliation at the same time. This is at least a difficult dilemma. And the third thing we have to ask ourselves is, of course, whether Sudan is the most important place to use the resources of the Minister of Assistance. It is based on an assessment of how deep and bad the conflict is there, but I am also perhaps a little questioning as to whether that is the place it is easiest to achieve concrete results, if Norway could more likely contribute to concrete results if it were to play a role in the conflict between Eritrea and Ethiopia.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e706	The representative Solheim and I would need many minutes, because now there were a number of new issues that I would very much like to have spent time on. We'll have an opportunity to do that later. So first of all, let's think about the actual questions. It is vital to resolve the political conflict – clearly. So to pick the page. Although Norsk Folkehelp operates with hospitals and such in South Sudan, I believe that we can maintain trust with both parties. That's my impression. Although it is a recurring issue, we have clearly expressed our choice of the reconciliation line, and we choose to have a relatively objective approach to the conflict in order to contribute to peace. Third, if it's right to prioritize Sudan, I'm going to answer that it's not that we deprioritize Ethiopia and Eritrea. More in detail about that, I don't intend to go. To the political doctrine – three points. I agree with the representative of Solheim that it is the policy that is crucial, and in very many cases political leaders have their own responsibility for increasing poverty problems. And I agree with him that we should contribute to brokering roles, we should contribute to supporting independent media, and we should – thirdly – contribute to supporting political processes. This Erik Solheim knows well that we're doing, and we're doing it pretty much. And then the question is, are we just going to do this? There's my answer no. And that's three more reasons. The first is fundamental structural causes of conflicts, which are not always the case, but which are definitely relevant to the development of many conflicts. Secondly, long-term involvement is often a prerequisite for the trust of the parties, to be actors in peace and reconciliation processes and to be expected. We can't get into political reconciliation processes by being stuntmen who haven't been there before. We have to trust over time. Thirdly, we also have a responsibility for poor people living in countries where there are no conflicts, but where there is a more permanent state of emergency, and there the long-term assistance must be involved and help improve the living conditions of the individual. The three points belong to the nuance. That's why I want to say that's a good point, politicisation is good, but a whole new political doctrine – no.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e719	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e722	It was a comprehensive presentation by the Council of State in Stortinget on 21 January. I agree with those who have expressed amazement in this debate that the Council of State did not find time to touch on the humanitarian situation in our neighbourhood, where the need now creates problems for most people in North-West Russia under extreme climatic conditions. That is why I have also travelled an interpellation, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs will answer on 3 March. Poverty, the lack of food and other necessities and the lack of medical equipment are now causing the weakest suffering to Kola. The times of economic need now make the authorities of North-West Russia call for humanitarian assistance. I am morally offended at the Minister of Aid, for I had expected her to have commented and had opinions about the broad commitment that people throughout the country now have to the poor and needy on the other side of our common border. Unfortunately, she did not care about North-West Russia — and neither has the government excelled in its commitment to the humanitarian emergency that most people in Norway are so committed to. The creation of the Barents region was justified in having a tool to balance the inequalities between the peoples on both sides of the border. Nevertheless, the Council of State did not find room — or even worse, did not care — to explain Norway’s policy vis-à-vis North-West Russia on the basis of a humanitarian approach. Why? At best, it is forgotten; at worst, it is a result of the decentralisation of the northern regions and the Barents region. During the autumn budgetary procedure, appropriations for Eastern Europe were cut, but the Government assured that there would still be sufficient funds to have the expected activity. Right-wing proposal for a humanitarian aid package to the Murmansk region of 80 million. kr was voted down. While ignoring the need for help in Europe and Norway, the Council of States is turning one-sidedly towards Africa and away from what is happening in our own vicinity as far as possible. At the same time, we see a broad public commitment. Trade unions, churches, organizations and individuals collect tens of millions of dollars almost every month. Hans Scheldrup, principal at a school in Troms, is now sending wagon train number. 85 to Kola with humanitarian aid. 85-year-old Margot Lorentsen in Tromsø has sent about the same number of trailers across. LO, Norwegian People's Aid, SOS Children's Towns and Red Cross's bets are heavy. Enterprises and employees in Norway provide assistance. They're now waiting for the government to come up with a much broader and stronger commitment. Foreign Minister Vollebæk said last week, in contrast to what the minister does not say, that the humanitarian situation in North-West Russia is still difficult, and he is pleased with the commitment expressed by individuals, businesses, organisations and Nordic municipalities. But anyway, there's no room for $5 million. kr to vital medicines and disposable equipment for anaesthesia and surgical treatment requested by the Head of State of Arkhangelsk. Nevertheless, you admit that there is a need for urgent help. I think the Minister for Assistance should have mentioned this in his statement. Fortunately, we now get a statement from another minister. As I said, I have traveled an interpellation, and I hope that it will provide the basis for a broader debate. However, I think it is important to stress, as several speakers here have pointed out, that when discussing the humanitarian aid from Norway, the Government should have raised that debate on its own initiative – not least when the Council of State itself, in the points she lists at the end, says in paragraph 7 that it will ‘develop new funding mechanisms that fill the critical gap between emergency aid and more long-term efforts’. That is where the answer must also be to Russia. In addition, in paragraph 10, she says that Norwegian humanitarian aid should be given priority and that it should be ‘rooted in the moral imperative of helping and protecting people in distress and solidarity with those in need’. Then I ask, "Why doesn't the Council of State have the power to join forces with those who are in need in our neighbourhood, in the Kola Peninsula?" Why do you raise your eyes so far that you do not see the distress in the nearest circuit? When the Council of State has as its expressed aim to pursue a universal approach to humanitarian crises where people are in need, wherever they may be, and that they should have equal rights to humanitarian aid, why does the Council of State not manage to include them on the other side of our common border, the Russians, when she takes care of the humanitarian aid from Norway? I am pleased that the Council of State indicates that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will explain this. But I had expected more, and I feel a strong moral responsibility to remember the situation on the other side of our border in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e745	The Progress Party is aware that significant parts of the world’s population live in poverty and distress. But we would point out that this is not only due to natural disasters, it is also due to internal cultural conflicts and political conflicts affecting innocent people. It has been primarily a matter of one party states that have been governed by a privileged authority that supports the police and a corrupt bureaucracy, which is often, at least indirectly, financed by, among others. Norwegian u-aids. Most countries in need of humanitarian assistance have a centralised governance model that is incompatible with a market economy production process that stimulates individual efforts and results in growth for the nation as a whole. With regard to the ten humanitarian aid bids of the Government, we also agree with the intentions of disaster relief. However, in order to prevent ever-growing global distress, and to provide countries with the best opportunity to prevent distress, it is necessary to make changes to the u-help system in general, so that assistance is a help to self-help. Norway needs to phase out the state-required unhelp, which greatly contributes to increasing conflicts and driving people on the run, and rather concentrate on purely humanitarian relief to save human lives and promote human rights. We have to contribute to people's ability to manage themselves, and not become dependent on outside support. The aid to Sudan is an example of the horror of the duration of u-help. So there's been help for over 30 years, and the conflicts are persistent. This help has not been a help to self-help, but a help to prolong conflicts. That is why they have also become dependent on international humanitarian aid. The world will also face distress and many needy nations in the future, because the power of totalitarian states has no respect for human rights at all. The example of another horror in the lack of human rights is North Korea. Reports show that the country is facing a famine because of the lack of interest of the power to feed its people. Rather, they buy weapons to suppress their own. Unfortunately, I have not been able to record that the Council of State, through its speech, has mentioned the forgotten famine in North Korea. She has concentrated mainly on the problems in African countries, countries that have received Norwegian aid for a number of years. We are now pleased that the Government will focus on humanitarian aid and reconsider support for unhelp, as I understand it – this because the Progress Party will not support an ordinary, state, forced unhelp, but rather help countries that have come in need without, for example. natural disasters and famine. We will also encourage voluntary assistance through humanitarian organisations, as in most cases these organisations are the best ones to know how much assistance can be most effectively deployed. This does not mean that the Progress Party is thus willing to increase the aid budget, rather that we will look at the use of the funds for the aid and hope that they can be used in the best possible way, and that re-priorities are absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e768	I'm not going to try to sum up the debate. I can only see that there has been a very calm debate, which has only partly gone along the traditional dividing lines. There has been some reconciliation over the debate here today. The Progress Party calls for even more initiatives in the area of humanitarian aid. That is what we are going to do, and it creates expectations for me as well as for the Progress Party to follow up with the necessary means for that to happen. Solheim has a new doctrine in relation to humanitarian aid efforts. I will not comment on that further, as I understand that Solheim and the Council of State will debate it later. Then also the Minister of Development and Human Rights gets praise from the Right, from Siri Frost Sterri. I think that's nice. It deserves the Council of State. A thorough and comprehensive statement has been made in the Grand Duchy on how the Government will follow up humanitarian aid, more specifically in ten points. Of course, there is a considerable strength for Norwegian aid work that there is strong and broad political impetus behind the principles that the Government wants to follow in this area, as the debate here today has shown. The only one who tried to make some noise was perhaps the representative Svein Ludvigsen. But let me immediately say: I have great respect for his commitment and his concern for the situation in Northwest Russia. I would just like to point out that what the Minister has already said about humanitarian aid, of course also includes the situation in our neighbourhoods and explicitly, of course, the situation in North-West Russia. So now the Foreign Minister has said that he is aware of these conditions. He assumed that the appropriations earmarked for the project and also the appropriations for the project amounted to 200 million. would be sufficient for the needs which he assessed when setting up the budget. But he has at the same time promised to come back to Stortinget if these assumptions were not to hold. In addition, he must also respond to Ludvigsen's interpellation. This means that we will also come back to the needs that may be necessary, and that the Storting may join in on follow-up in order to alleviate the distress in North-West Russia. Let me just briefly say to Ludvigsen that I hope that Ludvigsen's contributions do not in any way indicate that the Right does not take responsibility for the budgets – including the budget in this area – on which the Right was involved during the budgetary conciliation, correctly with subsidiary support. I would also like to stress that it has been the Minister for Foreign Affairs who, according to constitutional responsibility and the division of labour in the Government, has primarily paid attention to following up the situation in North-West Russia. As I said, there is a significant strength for Norway's active follow-up to humanitarian aid that there is such a broad uprising behind the government's presentation in this area. Lack of coordination, a clear need to coordinate limited resources in an area of intervention where more and more help organisations wish to participate, forces new structures in international relief work. It is therefore promising to note that important processes are now taking place in the international environment which, according to the Council of State, could lead to better coordination and coordination. This is not only the administrative challenge of coordinating the efforts of the various relief organisations in a more defined area where there is an urgent need for assistance, but it is equally important to see humanitarian assistance in the context of the longer-term strategy for peace, reconciliation and sustainable development. I have noticed with interest that in this context the department also assesses any changes in the management of the aid funds in order to achieve this. It's interesting and important signals. A new integrated response to a more holistic humanitarian response will not only mean a better and more targeted response that can stimulate growth and development in the country concerned or in a specific area. This could also mean that limited resources, which are unfortunately far from meeting needs today, will be able to reach considerably longer and help more people. Here, the Minister for Development has addressed an important issue, for which there is every reason to notice and acknowledge, which has also happened. But, of course, much of the necessary adjustments and changes in aid policy still remain to be made to make it more efficient and rational. Yes, of course, we'll never get there where we can say we're satisfied, that we've come up with a robust, a durable model that will always give us the solution to how humanitarian aid is to be organised. The needs will vary from place to place and from time to time. Generalizations, I don't think, are the solution to the challenges we're facing. But useful experience over time could help us to avoid making the same mistakes again. Nevertheless, let's just realize that, the path to better living conditions and sustainable development for the poorest countries will probably still be paved with a good deal of disappointment among themselves. However, it does not give us any opportunity to give up or justify saying: This is useless resource use. Fortunately, the positive results are also clearly visible, and even in good examples the significance of aid work has had, and the visible fruits it has given. It concerns Afghanistan, South Sudan, Guatemala, etc. In many of these countries, voluntary organisations play a very important and crucial role in Norwegian aid policy. The recognition that these organizations become part of the state council's presentation is both deserving and encouraging, and I would like to accede to what is expressed there. But this cooperation will also, of course, be in place to adapt to new circumstances and needs. I have noticed that the Government is now proposing that new forms of agreement be implemented to the organisations that ensure greater flexibility and predictability in the relief work. There's every reason to welcome you. However, I am pleased that the Council of State states emphatically that these organisations will continue to be key partners for the Norwegian authorities in the international relief work. We also have a unique position in a European and global context as one of the countries that contribute most to humanitarian aid. We often recognize this recognition as members of the Foreign Affairs Committee when we are travelling. Our goal is to increase assistance to 1 pst. GDP. So far we haven't done this yet, but it's important to have this goal clear, as the Government has formulated it. Perhaps we can also take other countries with us in such a process, which will lead to more countries becoming bold, yet realistic, objectives of aid policy. And I think that's reason, once again, to bring out the small signs that Norway, as a small nation, has had the opportunity to be exemplary. Johan J. Jakobsen referred to an article in The Washington Post, where a Norwegian initiative during the Minister of Development's visit succeeded in attracting attention. It was about initiating Operation Dagsverk according to the Norwegian model in the United States. And in German newspapers it has been noted that the new Chancellor is now following up Norway's initiative and is in favour of a debt reduction plan for the poorest countries, similar to the one that the Bondevik government has now implemented. In addition, on Tuesday, the IMF report, which commends the Norwegian development aid objective, also believes that there are important signals to other countries that should follow. It gives us hope, not only of the necessary coordination at national level in the area of assistance, but also of the fact that our countries of cooperation in Europe can contribute to a greater extent than they have so far to the much needed humanitarian aid work for which there seems to be an increasing need.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e800	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e803	I had actually intended to keep an article, but it might be fun to take this as a reply to Mr. Rocky snow instead. My strange position is that I found that the government bit unusually little when one hears the posts coming from the right here in the hall, and this is especially true of North-West Russia. It is true that the wealth gap – the distinction in living standards across the borders between Norway and Finland on the one hand and Russia on the other – has been said by many to be the deepest standard of living on the globe. It's an important question, and everyone's busy with this. But I thought it would be a little weird when the Right can stand here and put the entire responsibility on the Government for what has happened. Rightly, the government had a proposal that was pretty bad, but really bad it wasn't until the government party had talked to the Right and thus had reduced the budget sufficiently. Actually, I thought that the government could say this by itself, but I also thought it should be taken into account in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e812	I tried in the spirit of permissiveness and in the spirit that this debate has been conducted all along, and in a relatively clear yet amicable manner to answer the representative Svein Ludvigsen and the other right-wing representatives who have been concerned with these questions, by pointing out the government's commitment to aid work, wherever the need is. The distress in North-West Russia is affecting us, and we are going to have a relationship with it as close neighbours. I also pointed out the initiatives that will come from the Government of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in relation to what he has said about the appropriations and the amounts in this year's budget. I also fully agree with the reference made by Mr Blankenborg, who also commented by the Minister for Development, that we must have proportions when describing the need and needs in different parts of the world. There is a need in North-West Russia and it concerns us as neighbours, but we must nevertheless be careful when expressing our assessments and opinions on this, that we do not lose sight of the fact that Norwegian aid and Norwegian development aid are poverty-oriented and that that focus should be firmly focused. I do not think the need in North-West Russia will in any way be at the expense of the commitment and the important work that Norway has in the very poorest countries. And I want to take a strong distance from now trying to put the need in North-West Russia up against the important and still great need for both short- and long-term help in the poorest countries of Africa.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e822	The representative of Steensnæs was in his post in North-West Russia. In the Right, of course, we are aware of the division of responsibilities between the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Assistance, but in a debate in the United Kingdom on humanitarian aid, it must also be allowed to bring our neighbourhoods, even though we are aware that this is not necessarily the responsibility of the Council of State. I will confirm that despite this division of labour, it was a defect in the statement that this was not mentioned at all, but it has been corrected today. When I asked for a line to Steensnæs, it is for once again to confirm that the Right of course takes on the responsibility we assumed when we made the budget compromise with the government parties. It was just supposed to be missing. However, Steensnæs will also be aware that there were some assumptions on the basis of the spectacular low funding to North-West Russia for 1999. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has confirmed that it was part of the understanding, and that he will come back to Stortinget if it turns out that these conditions are not going to last, and that our efforts in North-West Russia are going to suffer because it is too deep a cut. I find reason to stress this, because the representative Blankenburg was also so concerned about the Right's position on North-West Russia. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party has finally increased cooperation with North-West Russia and given far higher political priority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e831	The President recalls that the Council of State is Minister for Development and Human Rights, not Minister for Assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e834	After these various rounds on the theme of this debate on humanitarian aid, let me sum up that the need in North-West Russia naturally belongs within such a framework and that it is a relevant topic. It was also mentioned by the Minister for Development and Human Rights. Let me also say that the constitutional division of responsibilities between the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Development and Human Rights does not, of course, prevent this issue from being raised up and being the focus of today's debate. What may have caused both the representative Blankenborg and myself to stumble was the little hint of moral indignation about the government's behaviour and follow-up in the situation in North-West Russia – given that the government has already taken an initiative and promised the government to come back with the necessary assessments and any additional appropriations to meet these needs, given that there is a division between the two ministers on how this is to be followed up by the government, and finally on the basis of the co-responsibility that now the representative Frost Sterri confirms Right has in relation to what is actually in this year's government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e844	I find reason to stress that there is a very broad consensus in this room between the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's parties on the main premises and guidelines for Norwegian aid policy. We have decisions from this room and the processing of communications and budgets that have also made it possible for Norway to be an active precursor of development policy priorities and structural changes, and there is a great deal of agreement on the issue of humanitarian aid, which has been the main theme today. Nevertheless, in our neighbourhoods we have a distress that we cannot be aware of sitting still and watching. I think it's right to say that parts of Russia and the other post-Soviet states have had a decline in living standards that lack parallel in modern history. Against this background, it is important that we accept our responsibility and accept the necessary humanitarian aid and other forms of assistance, so that we can prevent us from getting a silver belt through Europe as a substitute for the old Iron Curtain, or if you want, from the other side, a poverty step. Against this background, the Workers' Party is committed to ensuring the projects undertaken by both private and public authorities in North-West Russia and that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will return to the United Kingdom with regard to Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e851	With this atoning speech by the representative Nybakk, perhaps this debate can be concluded in the same spirit and tone as it began, with a strong emphasis on the broad consensus and support for the aid policy pursued by the Government, and that the Government has received both praise and recognition for the way in which one has followed up important parts of Norwegian aid policy. I don't want to in any way reduce the importance of Norway's involvement in North-West Russia. Now there's something in Scripture about being one's next, and it's a concept that not only reaches the neighbor, the family and the closest, but also takes into account a global reality. The next aspect, I think, should be retained in Norwegian aid policy as well. But it's clear it means something especially when there's need in a short distance from where one lives, as I think very many in North Norway feel it. It concerns one in a special way, it challenges one, and I think that both the representative Ludvigsen and others have got very well up here today. That responsibility and that commitment I think the government is fully prepared to take care of, and I am sure that when the Foreign Minister returns to the Stortinget, either in response to the interpellation that has been set up, or in any other appropriate way, there will be broad agreement also on how the situation in North-West Russia will meet, and what the Norwegian involvement will consist of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e860	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e863	I am sorry to have to destroy the idyll completely at the end of the meeting. It's true, as Steensnæs says, that the Workers' Party, the Centre Parties and SV agree on a lot. But the reason I asked for the word was that I finally got so tired of listening to the right that it was necessary to say from. When the Right came drawing with North-West Russia in this debate, it was all right. It is important that a party flags North-West Russia in this debate, it is important that we can now help to join forces on an additional allocation to North-West Russia, and it is important that the Minister of Foreign Affairs returns to the United Kingdom with proposals for more money. But when the Right throughout the whole debate, as well as trying to make this his party-political drive, and almost flagging this as his moral position, there is something creeping about. Because what the right is in favour of is taking a lot from Africa and giving a little bit to Russia, taking a lot from poor Africans to give a little to not quite so poor people in North-West Russia. That's the primary point of view of the Right. It is a completely fair political assessment that we can respect, but especially high-ranking and moral, it is with all due respect not. And so it was that Jan Petersen was the great winner at last year's budgetary procedure. He was even named this year's politician by Bergen's Official Journal. The right crooked homelessly of everything they had got! The right hand thing on this year's budget was anything but North-West Russia. There is nothing to suggest that the right pressure on North-West Russia in those negotiations. The right got into the billion-dollar tax bill. The right was concerned with everything other than Russia in those negotiations. And so when they've boasted about what they've done, it's all but Russia we've heard about. Is it not better to say it equal. After the great victory of the Right in the last year's budgetary procedure, the result, as Haakon Blankenburg said, was less to North-West Russia. So dampen the moral undertone a little bit and rather participate in a practical cooperation on how we can get more money to North-West Russia in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e872	It would be bad if this final insert from Mr. Solheim was going to put a stop to this debate. I understand that we must have made a sore point with the representative Solheim since he responds as he does and uses words such as that this is not «specially high-ranking and moral», and moral indignation as a description of the commitment the Right has also shown in this debate to North-West Russia. That's kind of weird. I should have been careful to mention, of course, since Mr. Solheim himself did not in any way mention North-West Russia among the areas he addressed in this debate, that SV has also co-existed with Right in the past with regard to the level of funding for the Baltic and North-West Russia. I should have done that, of course, and I have by no means wanted to attack the commitment of the SV. Today, when I have found reason to also mention the situation in North-West Russia, it is of course, as I explained in the debate, because it is clearly a priority from the Right. We believe that we need to concentrate assistance far better than what we are doing today. That's why there's no secret, whether it was some kind of revelation, sir. Solheim now meant to do, that we want to grant less to both Central America and Africa and also to parts of Asia. We want concentration, because we believe that it will also have a better effect on the means that Norway is using. When we believe that the neighbourhoods should be lifted to a stronger commitment by the Norwegian side in the area of humanitarian aid, it is of course both because there is an alarming need for help and because we believe that Norway should have special prerequisites for providing such assistance there. The point that I also brought a section on North-West Russia in my post was that it fits in with the ten-point list that the Council of State presented in its article. It turns out that what we can achieve with a strong commitment to North-West Russia fits in hand with this list, which will form the starting point for the further aid policy of the department. I therefore welcome the Minister of Foreign Affairs' response to the Stortinget relating to the budget chapter on North-West Russia, precisely because he assured the Stortinget that, despite a significant reduction in the funds allocated, this would not give concrete, practical results due to a previous accumulation of funds and the use of commitment powers. Now it might indicate that he has been somewhat too optimistic. We are therefore very pleased that he has announced that he will now come back, because, like other parties, we have received alarming messages from organisations and groups here in Norway who are already engaged in projects in North-West Russia. It would be very regrettable if this work were to stop now because of the budgetary situation. We don't think other parties have wanted to contribute to that either. It is true that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has confirmed that it was also the understanding on the basis of which we had reached the budgetary compromise. About Mr. Solheim was supposed to be some wound because we haven't allowed ourselves to mention that SV has been with Right on a strong commitment to our neighbours in North West Russia, I hope that he will nevertheless forgive it and accept that if not otherwise we find reason, because this is an important priority in our humanitarian aid policy, also to mention it in such a debate as this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e889	I just want to spend half a minute summing up the debate. The first, as I think is important, is the broad consensus that is underlined by several, but which I, as the Council of State, also find reason to underline here in the Chamber. There is broad agreement on the strategy we have presented in our humanitarian statement and on the priorities set by the Government in the presentation. I'm glad. And in fact, it also seems that consensus is perhaps even a little bit wider than before, with the indications of positive signals that have come from at least some of the speakers of the Progress Party in the Chamber today. I therefore welcome the debate. I am also pleased that we have finally put humanitarian aid on the agenda in Stortinget. I have believed that this has been a defect before. Now we have a starting point for our work on Stortinget's full grounding. Finally, focusing on North-West Russia has taken part in the last half of the debate. I welcome the comments made by the representatives of Blankenborg, Steensnæs and Solheim. In this context, there is no doubt that we have the needs in focus. But there is also no doubt that we need to focus on the right perspectives and put the needs into perspective also in relation to what must always govern our priorities, namely to help those who are hardest hit, where the needs are the greatest. It must be at the bottom. Then, of course, we're going to set up where there's a need in this area too, and it's going to come back to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Otherwise, I did not interpret any hurt in the posts of the representative Solheim.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e902	Erik Solheim has had the word twice before, and gets the word to a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e905	I don't need more than one minute, because right now I'm standing here more as a medium for the center government than on my own behalf. I have become – through countless appeals from Mr. Jakobsen and Mr. Steensnæs – asked to ask a question to the Right which, in view of the forthcoming budgetary negotiations, they will not ask themselves, but which they would like me to ask. It is in all simplicity: if, during last year's budget negotiations, the Right had reunited a little on the requirement of tax relief and instead had demanded more money for Russia, would Siri Frost Sterri think that the centre parties would then oppose this requirement?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e910	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1858]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e915	The size has now come to case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox – This setting has not been beyond the regulatory time, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e929	The abolition of the anti-fracture system and its unacceptable effects for Stortinget were discussed in depth at the Odelsting meeting on 21 January this year. I think, for all parties, I can refer to the views expressed in all 22 articles. I think it is not appropriate for many reasons to reopen that debate here today. Today, we are dealing specifically with the re-introduction of the previous anti-fracture system. Any subsequent redemptions of this will give us plenty of time to come back to. An important point for the Storting has been the promptest possible reintroduction of the scheme. When the Financial Committee gave its opinion, we had reason to believe that it would be practicable to put the reinstated scheme in place from 5 February. We have, after the setting was given, become aware that it was somewhat optimistic. The oil companies have for their part asked for a postponement by 8 February – that the scheme should be in place on 8 February for customers. It is a deadline that has also been discussed with the Ministry of Finance/Financial Affairs, and as I understand it, the Minister of Finance also agrees that such a postponement of the date of entry into force is correct and necessary. For this reason, I would like to raise proposal No. 2, by Lars Gunnar Lie on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. There is a proposal for a new I where it should read: ‘The order in which the State budget for petrol and automotive diesel was carried over from 1 January 1999 will be reintroduced from 8 February 1999 until 30 June 1999.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e941	Erik Dalheim has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e944	The Committee's proposal has been promoted because the Finance Committee returned the Government's proposal for a new freight balancing system on the grounds that it was too poorly investigated. I am basically opposed to any subsidisation of cargo, but would nevertheless claim that first there is a system of freight balancing, a continuation of the previous system is far preferable to the proposal for a new system. The new scheme proposed by the Government is, in reality, an increase in petrol and diesel taxes. I am uncertain whether there is a kind of justice consideration that underlies the proposal. If that is the case, I put a big question mark on the fairness of the proposal. Is it really fair that petrol customers in Bodø have to pay the shipping for petrol and diesel customers in Saltdal to save them a hundred kroner a year, while the housing companies, such as do they have to pay twice for their dwellings in relation to the saline valleys, and do they not receive any compensation for this? The fact that fresh cod costs twice as much in Oslo as in Lofoten, most people accept without further delay, and there are many other examples of the fact that prices of different goods and services vary from part of the country to part of the country and from city to country, without proposing any form of price balancing for that reason. No, the fair thing must be that if one chooses to settle in an urban area, there are advantages and disadvantages to it, in line with living in a district. Both parts are free choice by individual and should bear the costs arising from such a choice. Where the territorial policy considerations underlying the proposal and the belief that the freight balancing system is to ensure the settlement in the districts seem unlikely to have such an effect by one or two centipede per year. We've had a lot of experience with just such a freight balancing system, and we know that it doesn't stop moving from the districts or create equal prices across the country. There are many examples of large price differences in areas with the same freight costs, which show that competition is crucial to the level of prices at each point. The real problem for the districts, with poor collective provision, long distances and high dependence on the car, is not marginal price differences between the places, but the sky-high price level of petrol and diesel in general. A reduction in government charges of NOK 2 per person. liters would really mean something for District Norway – not a balancing of marginal freight costs. It's a fact that we can find significant price differences in areas with the same freight costs. It shows that such a system is not working, and the Progress Party will therefore be voting against the proposal for the introduction of the fuel-freight balancing system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e957	Fuel freight subsidies are intended to contribute to the balancing of the prices of petrol and automotive diesel between different parts of the country. As you know, the scheme has existed since 1946. The result of the budgetary procedure is, as you know, that there is no system at present. District Norway has raised a unanimous demand for lower petrol prices, and we have all received enquiries about the increased gas prices in many districts. It is claimed that Storting’s decision to abolish the transport aid has resulted in a price increase of 70 cents in some districts. But what you're really arguing about is that you want a lower rate of petrol charges. The price increase that has occurred on petrol is not the result of the cancellation of the freight smoothing scheme alone. The fees have been adjusted, and this has led to an increase in the petrol price in most areas of the country. Even when there's a price war going on, there's been an increase. Competition supervision has carried out several nationwide fuel price surveys, which show significant price variations on a national basis, and the Competition Authority has not been able to conclude that the current subsidy scheme contributes to price balancing. The studies indicate that there are factors other than freight costs that lead to price differences. In particular, the Competition Authority finds that prices are low in areas where there are also unserviceable stations. Two out of six market actors do not have access to freight balancing but have nevertheless been the main drivers for lower petrol prices. The main parameter for low petrol prices is effective competition at individual points of sale – a lack of competition in the districts. It is difficult to find any fundamental justification for a price equalisation scheme for fuel. If there is an objective of balancing costs around the country, it could be equally appropriate to establish equivalent mechanisms to compensate for it in other areas. The right is of the opinion that these types of price-balancing arrangements should be removed regardless of their design. On the right, several times in the past, we have proposed to remove the scheme, but at the same time we have also proposed to reduce petrol taxes, so that no one gets worse. This is not the case now, and therefore we join in the proposal for the temporary reintroduction of the freight balancing system. The problem with the existing scheme is that most of the money goes to relatively central areas. You can take Drammen as an example of such an area, and the Drammen can't be described as anything but central. That's why I think it's a 100-million-dollar scheme. kr in the year, is expensive to distribute approx. 20 pst. to the districts with the highest freight costs. I would like to point this out, because the Minister of Finance, in his proposal to introduce a new scheme, agreed that the money in the proposed fund would continue to be distributed under the old scheme. Finally, I would like to mention that, like the Right, the Workers' Party has been very concerned that additional appropriations cannot be granted without any interference. For the right, it is important that the whole of the 1999 economic policy of the Grand Duchy be taken into account and not undermined early in the financial year. I actually thought that the Workers' Party too was of the same opinion, but it does not look like this today. It is certainly only in budgetary terms that it is important to find containment, and not when additional appropriations are made outside the budgetary procedures. On the right, it is most natural for us to keep the overall allocation of regional policy measures unchanged and to propose a coverage in this area. This inclusion proposal would be fully in line with the alternative draft budget proposed by the Workers' Party, because the entry is set to 0. However, since they do not think the containment is so important, they have not given their support to our proposal either. I hope that when we implement this temporary arrangement, we will see that prices go down, but I have my doubts that they will go down as much as you have foreseen. At the same time, I would like to address the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e978	Kjellaug Nakkim has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e981	A short comment. – Firstly, I am looking at the debate that we had in Odelstinget on 21 January on this matter. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Right Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Twist People's Party are behind the Committee's recommendation and are also involved in the submission that I have submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e988	I had the floor when the proposal was promoted, and I have not intended to change as much of it as I said at the time. I confirm what Lars Gunnar Lie said, that I support the proposal that has been submitted. This has to do with predictability. Unlike the representative Monsen, I have to say that it's not just a hundred dots, but it's a hundred thousands. It is not just a question of maintaining housing in the districts, but it is a question of ensuring a framework for business in the districts. As I said when the proposal was promoted, it is contractors and mining companies that operate large machines, which have budgeted for certain operating costs. It is clear that when a scheme that could amount to several hundred thousand of the operating budget falls away during the year, there is no predictability. Then it is simply a matter of the fact that the Storting has enough people to make a mistake that has been made. That is what we are doing today by voting in favour of the proposal that is now on the table. I won't say any more, President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e997	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e1010	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e1016	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister for Development and Human Rights on humanitarian aid at the meeting of the European Parliament on 21 January 1999 be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e1023	During the debate, two proposals were put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Kjellaug Nakkim, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Erik Dalheim on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. It has been stated that the Right Party, the Socialist Left Party and the People's Party elected by cross-politics will also be co-sponsors of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Proposal No. 1 is included in the setting, while proposal No. 2 is distributed in the hall. Proposal No. 2 has been submitted after the time limit laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy, but the President will not object, in the absence of any objections, to the application of the proposal. – This has not happened, and the proposal can therefore be addressed to voting. The proposal from the Right, then the proposal from the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Twist People's Party, and finally the vote. Proposal No. 1, from the right, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 1999 budget shall be amended as follows: Cape. 551Regional economic development in counties and municipalities58Regional coordination measures, fund,reduced by NOK 47 500 000 from NOK 100000000 to NOK 52 500 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e1092	Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Trans-Political People's Party, are addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I. The State budget for petrol and automotive diesel which was lifted from 1 January 1999 will be reintroduced from 8 February 1999 until 30 June 1999.’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e1108	I was too late. I should have voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e1116	93 then voted in favour and 14 against the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Twist Party. The proposal is therefore adopted. With the decision that has just been taken, which is an alternative to the I suspension, you are now withdrawn from the draft decision of the vote. Let's move on to II.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-04.ana.ud42e1184	There is no record.
