ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e26	Let me first congratulate the State Council Lilletun on the presentation, which has been well received in the opinion. The Central Party recognises that there are many major challenges to the competence revolution that Education Norway is now experiencing and that considerable resources are still needed to ensure that the population throughout the country has good training opportunities. I am pleased that the Voksenå Declaration is followed up with emphasis on quality improvement at all stages of the education chain. Innovation and development can and should stimulate the creation of jobs where people live. Entrepreneurship on the agenda is an exciting project that needs to be further developed. It is important to include such attitudes in training from the first day of school. By making use of the flexibility and space of action of the curricula, I am sure that we can achieve better local anchoring in training, involving local nutrition and culture. This must be possible without losing sight of the overall objectives of the training. Motivation for learning is the most important element of knowledge education. The student organisations highlight this very strongly in their opinion to the Committee. The school needs to listen more to students and get into better dialogue. There's too much teaching in today's school, speaking the student organizations. Project work as a training form involves student participation in a completely different way from traditional catheter education. A recent Aftenpost report put the spotlight in high school and student well-being. The same signals come from the state reports from the SU offices. I am pleased with the clear signals from the Council of State that it is now the turn of youth to improve the training situation. Teachers must be better trained in project work if we are to succeed in this field. Properly implemented project work will make students more involved and responsible, which is not least important in relation to the current labour market demand. The students’ desire for more youth practice will also be met by project work. "Let the thousand flowers blossom" was the slogan for some years back. It may seem that all the reforms may have led to some poor living conditions for this diversity. It is therefore important that schools be stimulated to locally initiated development work in order to test new pedagogical and methodological approaches. There's money in the system, although many people think it's too dirty, and it can probably be admitted. District - active school needs to be developed further. It is important to make children and young people more aware of their home and neighbourhood, not least in relation to future work and housing. An important goal of the Centre Party is to make young people want to stay in the districts even though they have been out for educational purposes. A tight community economy threatens the decentralised school structure, where it can particularly go beyond the branch schools. I expect the government to continue to have a high level of preparedness in this area. Information and communication technologies cannot solve all challenges, but without the use of the new technology the school cannot do its job. It is still a long way to go before schools can be said to be well equipped in this area, but it is possible to use commonly used machines from business, even if this should not exempt the authorities from providing more equipment. The leader of the Teachers' Association, Anders Folkestad, says, among other things. this in the morning issue of May 7th this year: ‘For the teacher, it is important to clarify that there is a difference between information and knowledge, the infinite amount of information coming out of a computer. Nor will it help students in the formation of concepts and in the ability to absorb. That's what the teacher's task is...'. This is important to continue in all discussions about IT in school. About 50 pst. youth schools are currently taking higher education. This should be expected to increase with the newly adopted competence reform. This is isolated well, but one has to ask if the market is soon saturated with such labour. Society needs a wide range of skills and it is important that vocational training is not lost. In meeting with the OECD, I asked questions about this, and the concern was the same there, in the answer I got. The Centre Party also believes that universities and colleges need to be given the necessary freedom to become flexible providers for a varied demand for skills, where decentralised arrangements and distance learning are central. In the field of research, I don't allow time to get into it, but we get plenty of opportunity to get back to that topic when the research report is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e63	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e66	It is clearly limited what a representative can express in five minutes. There was one area that was not mentioned, but which would be reasonably high on the agenda in the future, and it is the negotiating responsibility in relation to the state and the municipal sector, with which the Council of State has notified that he has an assessment and will return to the Stortinget. The government parties have – I feel – somewhat different positions. That's why I would like to ask Marit Tingelstad what the Center Party means. The left has taken a clear view that they want to have responsibility for negotiation in the municipal sector. The Christian People's Party – with the views of the Council of State and also from some speeches here today – I feel that I am on the brink of moving into Right's principle view of negotiating responsibility. The Workers' Party and the Centre have been united in a fundamental view of not wanting to shift the negotiating responsibility until the teacher's organisations and the state agree. The question then arises as to whether the Central Party stands firm on what has previously been expressed in debates related to the negotiating responsibility, that it is only when the State and the teacher organisations agree that it may be appropriate to make changes to the location of the negotiating responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e78	It was not so unexpected to get that line, but I believe that this theme has received more attention after what appeared in the State Council statement than it really deserves. No decision has been made in principle by the Government. And it cannot be interpreted this way, as I have seen from the Council of State at least, that he is in favour of relocating the negotiating responsibility. But what the government has said is that we have a great deal of respect for the processes, and of course we have to wait until the main tariff settlement next year. I'm completely sharing the vision that Rune E. Kristiansen has. We have argued that it is important that the state and teacher organisations come to an understanding in this area, because it has many sides. As a representative of a large rapporteur party, I understand that, on the one hand, the rapporteurs seem to have responsibility for the workers as heads of local authorities. But on the other hand, it is very important for the Central Party to ensure that teachers have the same working conditions across the country. So there are a lot of considerations to be taken into consideration. I'm not of the opinion that a transfer to KS would now bring some very great improvement, either for the teachers or for the school in general.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e87	Marit Tingelstad mentioned the tight community economy as a problem. Now, the Central Party is in the lucky situation that they are sitting with the municipal minister and have the opportunity to do something about the tight local economy. I agree with her that poor finances for the municipal sector in general, both the primary municipality and the county municipality, are a fundamental problem for the education sector. Does Marit Tingelstad see any light in relation to the municipal economic proposition presented? On the basis of that proposition, is there any reason to believe that the economy will be less tight in 2000 than it is this year? I'm glad that Marit Tingelstad is also raising the youth stage, that we're going to put forces and resources there. I'm going to make a suggestion in my post later today that goes on at the youth stage, on precisely that of stimulating, giving some carrots to the youth stage, so that we can make the thousand flowers bloom. It's kind of a slogan when one just says, "Let the thousand flowers bloom." We know that if we're going to do that, there must be some carrots, so that one gets to it as one wants. My next question to Marit Tingelstad is therefore: is she prepared to vote for the proposal that SV is going to promote later today, which is going to make the thousand flowers bloom, that we are taking some initiative to get this to?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e96	This becomes pure gardening, with flowers and carrots. But from jokes to seriousness: tight economy worries me as a center partyist. I see how the municipalities are now struggling to get the ends to meet. I also see that the more the state and the Stortinget are earmarked, the less free money it becomes. It could also affect the school sector. I see it clearly. We are in government and have the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. But it's not as simple as the representative Rikvam says, that we can just pinch our fingers and say that when he wants to, he gets a money. It's not like that in the government. I suppose Reikvam knows very well. But he'll put me to the test, of course. That's the way it is. I am pleased that we have managed to keep the local economy at the level it is, but I am, of course, concerned that it should be improved. What's really good is that when interest rates go down, it'll help the municipalities. If I don't remember completely incorrectly, the drop in interest rates will now lead to, among other things, approx. 700 million. the improvement in the municipal sector. Then it was with the youth. I think it's very serious, because I've seen it in my own practice in school that it's the most important area to apply the measures. It is not said that one must have many million kroner, but one must use the funds for systematic development work. And I remind you that in the setting of our budget area, it says that it's 25 million. kr in the commitment authorisation for development work, in addition to the SEK 136 million. kr which is for the follow-up training of primary school teachers. I'm not sure those funds have been used well enough. Perhaps, on our part, we also need to provide better information in order to make the municipalities use the available funds.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e109	I noticed that in his reply to Mr Rune E. Kristiansen, the representative Tingelstad said that it is not so easy to take a position on this with the right to negotiate when representing a large rapporteur party. Just that problem could be solved in the long term! But that's probably not the main thing about the question of where the negotiating responsibility should lie, and what might be the impact on the wage development of teachers in Norwegian school. In this context, I allow myself to refer to the experience of the Swedish teacher organisations. Norway and Sweden are not dramatically different in these circumstances. And that is probably also an argument that I believe the Centre Party should, for ideological reasons, have a significant sense that employer responsibility and negotiating responsibility should preferably be as close as possible to the place where the school activity takes place. It seems to me that it is likely that, when teachers' salaries have slowed down as far back as they have for quite a long time, it is precisely with the negotiating system we have, and that it is the State that is the opposite of the negotiating. I would therefore like to ask Marit Tingelstad if she does not, precisely from the view of the Central Party on the subject of close-up democracy, sees strong and heavy reasons which speak for the fact that the negotiating responsibility should lie with the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e118	I don't know if I should start by thanking the representative for the slightly ironic reminder that there might be a different constellation in the different municipalities after the election. By the way, it is not up to us to decide, it is up to the voters to decide – and we will see which parties get the most rapporteurs. The point is that one thing can be seen from several sides, and I still choose to have the impression that a constant will outweigh the benefits and disadvantages. And then I'm so honest that I admit it's not just saying that yes, I'm sure it's the best! If it was so certain that this was the best thing, I have to tell the representative Wohnning – which is central to the Right – that the local economy is what will be crucial if there is to be more money for the teachers. As long as the KS has had the negotiating responsibility for the pre-school teachers, I have not seen that there has been any violent lifting. And if I'm not completely misoriented, for example, will. KS in this round prioritises a completely different group from the teachers. It is therefore not certain that the teachers will receive a higher salary even if the negotiating responsibility is transferred to the KS. I don't know the situation in Sweden, I just know that they have a different system, so I can't answer that question. But I agree with the Right that close democracy is important, and joint responsibility for all those added is important. These are things that I want to take with me in the assessment when I'm going to look at both benefits and disadvantages, and I'm going to reserve the freedom to use at least one more year to make this assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e129	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e132	The analysis of the situation in the presentation by the Council of State does not justify any particular disagreement. However, the lack of an explanation is a conclusion. I disagree with the Right when the Right perceives and interprets it so that moving more of the focus from central to local control level would be a step to the right. This is something that both the Working Party and SV have said is the right priority. As I said, there were no conclusions. Some of us had hoped that some conclusions could have been drawn in the revised national budget and in the municipal economic proposition for next year. There the Council of State had an opportunity to show us some conclusions of the presentation. They didn't come! We have an education system from primary to secondary school, which is essentially good in content and structure. We've developed a good plan. We've got a good structure in most areas. Some adjustments are needed, and these adjustments, especially for high school, will hopefully be in favour of treating St.meld. No 32 for 1998-99. The forgotten school team, on the other hand, is the youth class, which many have said before, and based on the statements that have been made today, it is a great willingness to do something about youth. The two key messages under consideration in the Committee - St.meld. No 28, Towards richer goals, and St.meld. No 32, Higher education, if reform 94, reveals some worrying issues. They reveal that we have not come very far in terms of content reform. We haven't done what we want to do with the content, either in primary school or in high school. Then it is important that we try to find some reasons why we have not succeeded. I'm going to point out three things that I'm convinced are quite important. Firstly, the simplest thing, that it is obvious that we have a resource crisis. There is no doubt that the education sector has become the budget player in the last year, and I regret that. This is due to a number of factors, including: that we have received earmarked funds in other sectors, which in turn bind up the free resources of the municipalities and counties. In the municipal economic proposal, an eartag shall virtually all the additional resources to be allocated to the municipal sector next year. 1 pst. of real growth of 1,25 pst. goes to ear-marked substances. There's the problem on the resource side. We also have a number of other factors that make us not getting enough for the content reform. I'll mention two more things that it's important to do something with. One is the character system we have in our schoolwork. This applies to primary, secondary and secondary education. It is quite clear that the characteristics of the evaluation system we have inherited from the Jesuits in the 1500s and 1600s should be passé and that it is far too much in control of teaching. That's the actual ratio. If we're going to be able to achieve a proper content reform, make a reform where we get stronger student participation by involving rivers in both the planning, implementation and evaluation of teaching, I'm quite convinced that we have to get rid of today's character system. Secondly, we have a textbook system that controls teaching far too much. We have a system in Norway today that we make teacher plans, and then, almost before the ink has dried, the textbooks authors start writing textbooks to cover the entire curriculum. They control the teaching too much. The whole system of textbooks as we have today, and the way the school uses it, is an accident. It hinders development and prevents us from making these reforms work well enough. In these two areas, the character system and the teacher's book system, there really is a need to take a real force and do something. If we do, I am quite convinced that our reforms will be better. Then I have to be allowed to refer to our two suggestions. We have two suggestions, and they are taken up by this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e152	The representative Rolf Rikvam has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e155	I had thought that the representative of Rikvam would have followed up the exchange of lines that was earlier between Rune E. Kristiansen and Marit Tingelstad, precisely because the council has called for a discussion of the transfer of negotiating responsibility for the teachers to the municipalities. And the council has taken this up on their own, there was no direct reason why he had to take this up. That is, together with the Advance Party and the Right, who have previously signaled the same thing, the Government has a majority for that view if it is in favour of it as a work team. Fortunately, the Centre Party has now made it clear that they do not support the possible transfer of negotiating responsibilities from the Government and, with the votes of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, there will be a majority against this. It would be interesting to hear the SV's attitude and position on this relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e160	This is a debate that has been going on in not a hundred years, so almost a hundred years. It gets pulled in when we discuss the level of teacher pay. What SV has been working on is recruiting teachers, getting enough teachers. We're about to get into a situation where we can't manage to get enough qualified teachers to go to school. The most important thing for us in SV is to get a real paylift for the teacher groups. We've done a lot of tests on this in the hall, but we haven't received any particular hearing. We have also tried to influence the various processes in which the teacher's remuneration is determined, but I realize that we have not received it. We haven't made it there, let me underline it all first. As for who should be responsible for the negotiations, it should be secondary if we were sure that we got a real payroll, so that we could ensure the future recruitment of highly qualified teachers. We in SV are in the lucky situation that we have a national meeting decision that says that we do not want to shift the negotiating responsibility. I can easily refer to this national meeting decision, but I still regret that it is the theme of this Chamber, that while we have problems recruiting teachers, we sit here and discuss year after year where the negotiations are to be held. It's a derailment. But in answer, once again, we want per cent. Today, as long as the teacher organisations and the state believe they should conduct the negotiations, to take note of it, and we shall not make any proposal that would make it difficult for any of the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e171	I was a little surprised at the information that fell in the previous row: that there should be a majority of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party in the view of this, and I would assume that the Centre Party was also a little surprised at that information. However, it will be possible to clarify this later in the debate. The representative of Reikvam complained earlier today that some elements of the Norwegian educational debate have a ritual character. This is very much the case with the representative, Mr Rikham himself, of generous comments on character use in school. If there is something that has a ritual — yes almost magical — character in the Norwegian education debate, then it must be the eternal character war. So a question. I understood the representative of Rikvam's diagnosis that everything on the paper is actually something close to perfection in today's Norwegian school system. In practice, when there are some things that fail, there are two factors: the lack of money and the use of grades. And to clarify the question a little bit about this assessment of the characters, which, in my opinion, is only a symptom and no problem: we have just been presented with a survey that shows that the reading skills in the eighth grade in Norwegian school are relatively weaker than in the second grade, i.e. compared to the natural expected development. That's as many as between 15 and 20 pst. in grade 8 which has disastrously poor reading skills. Does the representative of Rikvam think that this is due to a lack of resources or due to its use of character?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e182	First of all, I haven't diagnosed anything, it's going to be wrong. What I did in the beginning was, among other things, to refer to the statement by the Council of State, which I also very much agree with. I showed you, among other things: to these two big messages – which hopefully also Inge Wohnung knows and has read – where we see that it is on the content page that we do not get it. That's where we're struggling. We're not going to be able to twist the teaching, we're not going to get it as the curriculum requires. I am sure that Inge Wohnung knows quite well about that. I tried to point to some things that can make it easier, which can make us get to things that we haven't done. There weren't two things I pointed to, there were three: I drew up the economic situation, the fact that there is a lack of resources. I pulled out the rating system. There's no ritual debate. It must have been some years since Inge Wohnning was involved in an educational policy debate whose character system was a topic on the political agenda. It was in my time at high school in the 1960s/1970s we had that debate, but it was quite a long time ago, and in the years that followed it has not been very high on the political agenda, just so it's also clarified. I also pointed to this with the textbooks, to try to get what we want in terms of content. I think there's a connection between resources and, among other things. readability. According to our plans, we need individual training, and we have more resources for classing and for group sharing, there is also a greater opportunity to help the individual student, the individual student who needs extra education, extra help to achieve what is the goal. There's a connection between literacy and resources, there's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e195	There is also a correlation between the allocated speaking time and the time spent by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e198	I was close enough.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e203	The representative Rikvam claimed that there was a good plan and a good structure in the Norwegian school. In fact, the Council of State said the same thing in its presentation. But the Council of State called for content in the plan and structure, in the framework conditions. The same is also true of the representative, Mr Rikvam, who said that we did not get very far with the content reforms. Then he, as the representative for Wohnning said, clearly drew a parallel to the character system, claiming that our entire evaluation system was being conducted, and that the students should participate in the evaluation. In addition, the textbook system was hopeless for him, because the writers of the textbooks guided the development. As far as I know, very many of these authors are members of his own party, and it's beginning to be concerned about the content of the schoolwork for some and everyone. Then Reikvam claimed earlier today that SV is throwing out some carrots to improve the condition of high school. I guess that's good. But when you have an obvious budgetary crisis, where does SV get money from to all these carrots?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e212	If the textbooks are members of SV, I don't know, but it would be nice if they were, because they are real, good and good people. The textbooks in themselves are probably good enough. I haven't read everyone, but that wasn't my theme. What was my point, and as Ursula Evje obviously hasn't got along, is that the textbooks control the teaching too much. We have a plan, and -- I'm a little busy -- we have the curriculum. In primary school it is open to between 20 and 40 pst. of the curriculum material shall be local curriculum material. There is a great deal of pedagogical freedom within this plan, where everything is at the heart of initiative, everything is at the heart of different methods, etc. in each class. And then I asked the question, why don't we get it to, why don't we do what we want? And then I tried to point out some factors that control education too much, which means we don't get what we want. And in that case, I don't think that removing the character system and finding another evaluation system will solve all the problems. But there's one step on the right path to move focus away from the final exam and across to the work to be done in the class over 1-2-3 years. That was my point of pointing at the rating system. In terms of all the money that we in SV have for education, we don't have that much more money than others. There aren't so many millions that we're going to get with the proposal that's here from SV today, but there may be a few million that can help show that we're going to be able to make a change in school, we have to be willing to put in some means of conversion. You don't get anyone in the private business to be involved in the transition if there's no means of conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e221	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e224	It is with great pleasure that I note that the Council of State in its presentation places emphasis on the quality of the education system, on promoting innovation, diversity and flexibility, on providing greater local space for action and on strengthening the value perspective of education. Just these elements form the basis of the educational policy programme adopted by the Left at its national meeting last weekend. The left will facilitate a knowledge society in which the democratic, cultural and social dimensions of education are emphasised. A different world requires new thinking for Education Norway. Technological development, internationalisation and cultural diversity must also be reflected in everyday school life, both in content and organisation. It is important to hold on to the idea underlying the primary school — that the public school should be a common meeting place for children and young people with different social and cultural backgrounds. We all agree that the school should provide a good starting point for children's lives throughout the country. But an equivalent and good school offer must not mean an equal school. Norway is diverse and students are different. Therefore, each school and individual teacher must have the freedom to design their school, so that the needs of the students and the environment of the school affect the content and method of learning. The left wants a national framework for school content, but much more freedom within the framework. I am pleased that the Council of State is so strongly signaling that the peak reform period is over. From now on, changes and creativity are to emerge from the reality of each school. In today's debate, the Labour Party is trying to express that this is not a new policy. I think teachers and school Norway are looking something different at just this. The aim of the left is to return the schools to independent institutions, where creativity and creativity of individual teachers are to be cultivated – not stifled by directives. And I am pleased to note that the government has already started a review of regulations and regulations in the school sector in terms of simplification. The fight against forms must also be waged in the education sector. The left will facilitate an educational system that has room for the creative man. The Council of State stressed the need for entrepreneurship to enter the school system. Norway needs people who want something. This is also a good left policy. But I would also like to stress that creative people include artists to the greatest extent, and that we need to have an education system that offers young people who are betting on art, good conditions. As the Council of State stated, internationalisation will also characterise Education Norway. In a global knowledge economy, there is increased competition for knowledge and competences. In my opinion, the most important task in the future will be to ensure academic freedom, while at the same time strengthening the quality of education and research, so that the Norwegian environment can compete for researchers and students. Hopefully, we will have a wide-ranging debate on higher education after the Mjøs Committee has put forward its position, but I will already signal what direction the Left wants for development. Universities are among the most important institutions of democracy, in terms of their cultural tradition and role as counter-power. The left sees it as a primary goal to strengthen this role. It is important that institutions develop their own identity and strength in order to provide researchers and students with exciting and good learning environments. Politicians cannot and should not control the creativity and criticism of academic environments. The left will therefore exempt universities and colleges from state detail management, and I see the Government's proposal on net budgeting at universities, as presented in the revised national budget yesterday, as part of such a development. The Council of State points to another challenge for the environment of competence: How to make more business out of the knowledge available at universities and higher education institutions? If Norway is to claim to be a knowledge-based nation, it is important that more of its competence becomes a valuable asset in enterprises. But I would like to stress here that the Left does not in any way want business and academia to merge into a world. Business makes money, universities and schools have a completely different role. But there doesn't have to be a contradiction between increased academic freedom and more business out of the academy. The challenges are to establish a mutual understanding of each other's roles and values. The role of politicians is to ensure good conditions for free basic research and to create the good meeting points between research and business. The Council of State indicates that this is something the Government will highlight in the research report that will soon be presented, and I look forward to the Stortinget discussing the research in its entirety. Finally, I will be allowed to have time to correct a manifest misunderstanding. The left as a party has not taken a position on who should be the negotiator of the teachers. In this case, we fully support the Council of State, which assesses the matter in consultation with the organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e248	There will be a change of lines – Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen – no, as far as the President can understand now, there has been a certain signaling, and Anneliese Dørum gets the floor. It's been a long time since the president learned Morse, so...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e251	The representative Falch Fladmark spoke of the Workers' Party being responsible for top-notch reforms, and that luckily it was now over. Firstly, I would like to say that the reforms that the Labour Party would like to take credit for have, fortunately, been a broad support for this in the Stortinget. And there's no contradiction between the reforms and making the thousands of flowers bloom, so to speak, let the schools get more freedom, let the teachers use the freedom that is actually in the law, to get a better education, a better pedagogy. I really think there's little difference in the desire to get a living school with a good learning environment at all levels. But I think it was interesting now that Helene Falch Fladmark did not agree that the negotiating responsibility for the teachers should be transferred from the state to the municipal sector, but that, as far as I understand, they have an assessment. The centre party here today has made it clear that they're just as concerned about this as the Workers' Party is. And then, as far as I can understand, it's a broad majority of the Stortinget who want the responsibility for the pay of teachers to be with the state, so that the school of unity can evolve so that there are equality and equal conditions for the teachers, which in turn benefits the school and the students. Nevertheless, I would like to hear about the Left Government Party, if one of the government parties is opposed, will nevertheless support such a change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e260	What I did in my post now was to clarify that what Rune E said, Kristiansen, was not right. The left-hand side of the party has not yet taken a position on who should be the negotiator to the teachers. The question, as I said, is left to the Government, and we are standing behind Lilletun, who has an assessment of this matter in consultation with the organizations. Our goal, which I think we actually share with the other parties in this room, is more and better teachers for the schools in Norway. It is absolutely essential to achieve the goal of a better school that the teachers to do the job are motivated and competent. What we're concerned about is ensuring the schools are good teachers, but as I said, we haven't taken a stand for who's going to be the negotiator. There are many other things that are important to ensure good teachers than that very thing. We will come back to it when the government has taken its position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e267	Today's debate has been very marked by a debate on increased freedom and increasing shortages. It's become a main theme, and there's perhaps something of the new and most enjoyable in the debate we've had today. One theme has also been that of negotiating with the teachers about wages, and the representative Tingelstad said that several people had taken over the Council when it came to negotiating responsibility. The left's representative wouldn't take a decision on this here, so I'm not going to bother about that particular part anymore. But what's so interesting is the principle itself – not who's going to negotiate, but whether we're going to have a more differentiated pay system in Norwegian school for years to come. Everyone knows – the representative of Falch Fladmark knows, the sign knows, the students, the parents and the teachers, yes even the teachers’ organisations know – that there are some teachers who make an effort far beyond what you can expect both in and outside the working hours, and my right and my view is that in order to hold them in the Norwegian school, it must be possible to appreciate these fires by giving them a little extra on the pay page. And even if the Left does not want to decide who is to negotiate, I would like the right-wing representative Falch Fladmark to stick to this principle, if we now have to resolve the system that has been damaging to the teachers' wages for the last 20-30 years, and get a system where the best teachers can get a little better pay in those who are not so completely on top.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e274	As the Right, the Left is also pleased that the Stortinget so much ends up reorienting school policy towards a greater diversity and greater freedom for individual teachers and for schools. Now Løvik gave me an opportunity to explain what the National Meeting of the Left has adopted in terms of wage policy in relation to teachers. What is our goal is for the individual teacher to have more opportunity to influence his or her own career and salary development without leaving teaching as a primary task. In order to do that, we think a differentiation of the teacher's salary is necessary, but contrary to what at least the Right Party and the Advance Party have signaled, we do not go in to assess the teacher's efforts in that context. We believe that the teachers' organisations together with the negotiator – whoever it may be – will arrive at benefits, differentiated pay systems that all can agree on. It's Left's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e281	There are a few things I need to be clear about when it comes to the Left and Left's attitude to education policy. Now it's probably 14 days since the left had its national meeting, where they also decided one might call it the school-political manifesto – the left had seen down a selection of the leader of Falch Flatmark – where it says it's read that the left will prioritize schooling ahead of other municipal and county council tasks. That means that other areas have to be down-prioritized. Is the road that is to be given priority is the health that is to be given priority or is the culture that is to be given priority? I want an answer to that. Another point that was significant, and as it was negotiated, as I understood it, was that the school had to be released more freely: ‘Schools and pedagogues shall be released from unnecessary state and municipal governance.’ My question is what the left really adds to this. And the second is on whether there's agreement among the government parties on these points. So I think it's pretty ambitious when the Left claims that it's the only party that puts forward a program where they see the whole educational cycle in context. You're only allowed to take note. But when it comes to negotiating responsibility – I would also like to address it – the representative Falch Fladmark says that they have not taken a stand on it, but that they are in favour of a differentiated wage fixing in the municipal sector. Then I'll quote from the last issue of Norsk Skoleblad, where it says: ‘The individual municipality and county council should implement more closely their own wage determinations for teachers, the decision of the national meeting states.’ What's in this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e304	It'll be a little strange to stand on Stortinget's pulpit and discuss with other parties what the Left People's elected members of municipalities and county councils should prioritize. I also thought the Workers' Party thought education was important, and I find it strange that you are taking this up as a matter here in the Stortinget. The country meeting gave an attitude to the reputation of our elected representatives in the various bodies. In the case of local negotiations, I would like to point out that this was precisely what happened in the spring's paycheck for the teachers, where there was a larger pot for the municipalities to distribute. So our position is in no way contrary to a state bargaining counterparty. You can have more room for local negotiations even within the system we have today. There's room for using the system we have today for a more differentiated pay fixing. That's our point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e313	As a leader of the Stortinge negotiations, the President is now giving the floor to Thorbjørn Jagland. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e316	Thank you so much for giving me the floor! We have ten years behind us with major reforms, which have given way to far more and changed primary, secondary and higher education in a basic way. And not least, lifelong learning is becoming something more than airy words and desires. The Minister of Church, Education and Research stressed that education policy cannot be static either in the future. Here change is going to have to be. I say I agree a hundred percent. However, the Minister of Education was very vague when it comes to setting the direction in which further progress is to be made. It seemed like he said: I have no money, so I have no direction either. In the budgets that this Government has got through in the United Kingdom by means of the Right Party and the Progress Party, there is no direction of education policy. In 1999, there was less money for public schools, more for private ones. A quarter of government funding for the school leisure system was cut. As far as kindergartens are concerned, as we see as part of a comprehensive education policy, there is a bit of a sudden stop in development – instead we feel that kindergartens are being laid down. The goal of full child care coverage in 2000 has been abandoned. Ursula Evje said in reply with Rolf Rekovam from SV that we have an obvious budgetary crisis, and that is why we cannot bet. The working party had to tighten up in its years of government so to speak every year, but we never let it go beyond the children, the youth, the women and the equality. The government has not made that priority. You can talk as much as you want about greater freedom and diversity, it doesn't help if you don't do exactly the priority that you have to bet on school. And that hasn't been done, so we have the situation that we're now seeing. The Labour Party says, "We have ten years behind us with a commitment to school and education. We need ten new years of school and education. We've done a great job of getting up the number of places, getting space for more across the line in our educational system. Now we have to put a lot more effort into raising quality, especially when it comes to: student participation and work environment upgrading of school buildings, inter alia: to improve indoor and continuing education for children for teacher books and other multi-material computers and networking It is these things that lay the basis for greater diversity and freedom in our schoolwork. Today, the working conditions of rivers are offered at school, very different from the municipality to the municipality, among others. because the resources are so different from local authorities. The differences are so large that there is reason to ask if the conditions are equivalent in our single school, and whether the physical conditions make the working environment so different that it goes beyond the quality of training for young people who work under the worst conditions. We need to be aware that the students are at school all day. But they're not protected by work environment law, the way adults work. There are appropriate provisions for environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools, which came in 1995. The municipalities then had three years to comply with the requirements, but according to a survey carried out last year by the Children's Ombudsman, the municipalities themselves estimated that only half of the kindergartens and schools would meet the requirements of the regulation. The Labour Party wants clear and good rules for working and environmental conditions at school. We will review all the laws dealing with student democracy and participation, with a view to developing a separate labour and environmental law for students. This combined with a review of the situation in individual municipalities, followed by better opportunities to upgrade schools, can give many students a better day at school. It can provide more equivalent conditions and help prevent deep differences from developing depending on where you live. Increased responsibility and trust in the students I think is also the best way to combat bullying and violence in school. The school is not a value-neutral area; it must and must not tolerate bullying and racism. These are often situations that can start in small ways, but can develop into major problems if no one grasps them. Teachers have a responsibility to address problems and contribute to the resolution of conflicts, talk about things, and build positive attitudes based on equivalency and tolerance. But the students themselves also have a great responsibility. When we are going to make action plans against bullying and against racism, children and young people themselves are the most important experts to consult with. When the first reports come up on how primary school reform works, there is a lot of positive feedback. But many people also say: Watch out for high school! It's forgotten. There are many students having problems where they are struggling with new teaching methods, which may be the greatest need for more adults who can follow the students. We must take this very seriously. More adults in high school need not necessarily mean more teachers. It may as well be assistants and environmental workers — young people who can serve as good role models and guides. Good textbooks, good books, are also important for quality. In primary school, Reform 97 has created renewal. In high school, where almost every youth is going, we have to make sure that the students don't pay more than $1,000 a year for the books they need. If we allow advertising in school books, as suggested by the Right, we have broken an important limit. Other solutions need to be found here. At the same time, we have to admit that books are not what they were. At least as important is providing wirework and computers in schools. We know that not all students have access to such equipment at home. At the same time, we know that PC coverage is poor, especially in primary school. At the nursery, there's a total of 22 children per day. PC, show the last listings. We risk that fundamental differences are emerging as we strive to clear up space for a real IT bet in school. Here is an area that I think it is right to invite private forces to. In Bergen, Oppegård and Lørenskog, I know that schools cooperate with private companies to provide the necessary equipment and services. The machines came in place, the Internet was connected, the students learned to use the equipment, and so did the teachers. Why not make such projects nationwide and get a joint commitment between public schools and private businesses on equipment, wiring and professional updating of teachers? The challenge goes to the Minister of Education. But this is something quite different than putting advertising in our school books -- we shouldn't have that. But regardless of investment in buildings, books and computers, the teacher is crucial to the quality of school. I know we lose good teachers because the pay is low, but I also think we lose a lot because the possibility of professional development is too small. Here again we have an area where a proper plan is required for training leave and continuing training arrangements. The Labour Party will continue to invest in strengthening the public school — the single school. We want the public school to have the highest quality possible. Poor quality hit the weakest students most. When it is cut in the budgets, there are class sizes, special education and the number of adults in the school it goes through. We know that by neglecting individuals, we take opportunities to develop and create problems that we will have to address later on the social budget and the justice budget. We know that if we don't strengthen the quality, the community is scrambling by someone applying for private offerings. The school policy of the Workers' Party – when we talk about freedom – does not mean that people should be able to choose from public schools, it means that they should be able to choose the best possible public school, which is also adapted to the individual student. And that's what you really need to focus on right now. As long as you talk about greater freedom and opportunities for each school, the most important thing is the resources and the need to invest in the public school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e377	It has been very interesting to follow the debate here today. Of course, I am glad that there is a wide gap between the main lines of the distribution – in the analysis, in actions that need to be implemented to cope with the content reform. I have heard that the Labour Party felt that there is too little perspective – I will live with it – but there were no objections to cork analysis or action. I have also registered that Right has found out that I have seen the light. I hope that in itself is a continuous state of signatures, but at the same time I think that one actually sees a little more light every day. Now there are many who think that one should be careful with such statements. Now, in this case, it wasn't about the lights in the tunnel, but there could of course be meting trains. I don't want to mention the pay in that way. On the contrary, I would say that I thought it was interesting with the assessments he made in relation to what I had said, and what I had stressed. There's also been a discussion about who's been moving choirs. And of course, it is possible – as it has been analysed here today – that I may have approached Right. But there's one more possibility. It is that I am actually at the centre of this government, and that the right-wing representatives are also quite constructive, as they have been in the speeches here today. And as the representative Kristiansen of the Workers' Party stated in a newspaper article a while ago, and as it has been agreed here today from the representative Knudsen, we need a softening, we actually need to turn the pyramid a little bit. That is what I am calling for. So in that way, the Labour Party has also clearly moved. But I've done the same thing. It is quite obvious that in a number of areas, I have also believed too much in some of the grips that we did, for example. in relation to reform 94. There is a need – as I have expressed in the message we have provided – for many changes. But the main principle is established. That's why I actually think getting new recognition is not negative, that's the opposite. When it comes to the reforms that have been carried out, they have been mentioned a great deal today. We're talking about reform 94. Can not open message The main features are fixed, but we're going to make some corrections, both in relation to the weak and in relation to a number of other areas. When it comes to reform 97, the youth level is going to go further. But it is quite right that the representative, Mr Requam, said that both places still have problems with the content reform. Of course, resources are part of it, I admit that, but there are also a lot of methodological things that we need to address. It's only been three years since we decided on it. Nevertheless, last year I had to notify – and got a connection in the budget management here in Stortinget to come – a test paragraph. Development is moving fast. We have to be willing to take the consequences of that. But we'll bring the final one first when the Mjøs selection is done. I am pleased with what the representative Knudsen said about the regulations. I have a dialogue right now with the organizations in school and with a number of others in relation to resolving the regulations, so that they don't feel like a backpack. But we have to take care of the dignity that lies in those plans. I'm taking the challenge from Jagland on a number of things – including where we're going to cooperate with business. What is a fundamental deal between me and the representative Jagland is that we should bet on the unicorn ball. But what I don't agree with is that people who want it, don't have a real alternative and have other types of school battles. I also want to comment on another part of the debate, and it's whether characters are salivating or not. I do not see that we have special alternatives to grades today, but I have said that I am open to trials. I thought that the stone spherical pedagogy has shown that it can be closed. That's why I thought it had to be interesting to try. But it's not that we're going to get the content reform. I don't think the representative Rikvam means that either.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e397	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e400	I agree with the Council of State that the analysis he carried out of the state within our field of education is shared by a large majority. This does not mean that we also think that there is a particular perspective on the future lines — which the Council of State did not actually withdraw — while the analysis was not followed by concrete measures either. Most of us have probably been quite a lot around schools, and almost everywhere we go, most of the kids have used PCs before they start school. Although not a PC in school is the most important thing, it is a problem when children and young people experience that the school is gradually falling closer to development. So children and young people have experience in completely different and more effective ways of learning than what they sometimes meet in today's school. The students experience that they are not taken seriously in several ways: that the teaching methods belong to a slightly different society, and that their competences are not respected. The questions to the Council of State are: Local anchoring — yes, I agree with it — but what should it be followed by, what financial resources should it be accompanied by when to impose even more burdens on teachers, because that is the result? And will the Council of State increase adult contact, i.e. the adult density of youth, when he speaks hot to bet on youth? And finally, does the Council of State have a strategy to increase the number of PCs such as Thorbjørn Jagland suggested?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e409	I am quite satisfied that there is so much agreement on the analysis and on some important measures, including: relative to turning the pyramid. At the same time, I live with the representative Knudsen and the Labour Party saying that there is no money and no strategy. I'm sure I'll be very willing to elaborate on the arrangements made by workers' party councils in the past, and show that when it comes to money, you'll be looking for good. The reason why this was not a budget. The money is in the budget. Then you'll have to discuss it. With regard to what has been said that the budgets have been so and so foolish, it is that when it applies to the primary budget to everyone this year, it was the right that had the most to school, then the central government came, and the Labour Party came 100 million. kr behind it. Then there was a settlement that was like -- as I said -- that there was a lot smaller, because one was going to make a total distribution. But it's not like the Labour Party put so much money here. On the contrary, they had 100 million. kr less than the center, and the Right had cleared the most. So in relation to the questions, we've said that we have money for some attempts at youth, even when it's going to increase the density of adults. It is my intention to implement it, and I hope that Stortinget will give its consent. We'll get that going fast. It's actually the first time that something is actually done in that field. I'm also going to be honest and say, "I wish I could do more, but I don't have the money for that." But the attempts that are described, I think, are going to be interesting. When it comes to PCs and IT bets, it is quite right that, as Mr Jagland said, there are some good examples. We're trying to bring them out. We come up with an updated IT plan, an action plan, and then we will be able to discuss it. It comes in connection with the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e420	I want to warn the Council of State not to lie down at such a high level of ambition that he will see the light permanently. It could easily cause you to lose your sense of humor if you stare into the light for too long. On the other hand, I greatly appreciated the fact that the Council of State clearly said that he had moved for his part, and then you might use a slightly different imagery. The Holy Scriptures state that there is greater joy over one penitent sin that repents than over 99 righteous ones who do not need repentance. I fully share the views of the Council of State in his reply to the representative, Mr Jagland, that it is desirable that we have a public unit school in this country that gathers as much as possible. I also fundamentally agree with him that it should happen on a voluntary basis, and that it will not be the way, as I understood the representative of Jagland, that we should ensure that everyone is in that school because there is no alternative. It's a strange form of freedom ideology. There was a moment that I took up in my post, which the Council of State did not comment on, and which I would like to exclude him from: I pointed out that in his investigation into value perspectives, the need to strengthen ethics education, he said he would mobilise the Norwegian Web Council in relation to colleges and universities. I made some arguments that at best it had to be a detour, and at worst a direct wrong address. I would like to hear if the Council of State can agree with me on this, and that it cannot be reasonable to assign any function to the Norwegian Network Council as a worksharing body in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e429	I will take note that I will not expect to see the light all the time. But when it comes to what was said about a reprobate sinner, it's quite right. The representative's salary has once said here in the Chamber that he expects me to know the writing almost as well as he does, and it's basically a good presentation, I believe. But it says that one needs a daily reversal, and it probably applies to both the representative Wage and me. I said that I had changed my mind in relation to a number of questions, because as we have received evaluations, I have now received analyses – a move actually in relation to the terrain that exists, and not the opposite – and I do not have a recognition from the representative's salary that maybe he also sometimes needs a daily reversal – at least at times. When it comes to his questions about the Norwegian network council, I agree with him that it is not the ones to do this. But the Norwegian network council actually works very well for the ministry as an advisory body in relation to organisational issues. They give me advice, and then I follow them up in relation to the usual system, and of course, both college councils and university councils are going in. In this field, the Research Council has had a very interesting project, the leadership of Professor Føllesdal, and the experience from this has been taken with us in relation to how this is to be developed. But I can reassure the representative Wohnning that the Norwegian Network Council should not become a management body for this, but getting organisational advice and practical advice seemed to me to be interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e436	Then we're done with the daily reversal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e439	I am not going to spend any of my time converting neither the representative wages nor the councillor Lilletun. I'm concerned about the use of technology in education, I think a lot of people here are aware of that. And I'm also concerned about something that seems to have stuck, that alpha and omega is an increase in the PC density in school at all stages. I do not agree with this at all, which I came up with in my post, because there are no standards for use in relation to age. We're talking about six-year-olds on the one hand and doctoral students on the other. All of these have a real need for technology, but they don't need the same thing. And if this is left to municipalities with varying economies, we will get big differences in machine park and software in Education Norway. I want to ask the Council of State to say something about the development of such standards, as it's not just me that's a bit in the mood for this, but also the National Educational Center that actually has a consistent view of me. And when the representative's wages constantly crowd about this light, it turns out to me that he's read the conclusion to the Council of State, where it says that the Government will look at established systems 'with new glasses'. Then I hope that the Council of State uses a recognized and skilled professional optician for the glasses, because then he gets an optimal vision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e450	The days I think about the right glasses, I have expensive glasses from an approved professional optician. But I have to admit that a few days they will lie at home, and then it is good to have a couple of 50-knob glasses lying in the office. If it has consequences for the conclusions, I shouldn't have said anything about it, but that's the truth. I'm totally in agreement with the representative, Evje, that we don't have to make it so that technology is now more important than human beings. Of course, the teacher will still be the most important. There is also no reason to hide that these differences are disturbing, but we hope that the good examples and the action plan that we are going to come up with will help to reduce this gap. In the near future, new actions will also be negotiated by the Educational Centre and a number of suppliers, because we do not want one to standardise in a way that favors a supplier and that all municipalities should use the same. It would be a wrong system, but we have to negotiate agreements that make it possible to get a lot of systems at a decent price, and it's trying to get the Educational Center. But it's clear that today's statistics, especially for the base ball, are absolutely too bad. It is better in the advanced school when it comes to machine equipment, but there we have a great job of putting teachers in a position to use the equipment and develop their teaching skills in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e459	The President wants to make sure it's still out of his mind.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e462	The councils commented on my input about grades, and I would like to stress once again that when I tried to draw up a debate on the character system, it wasn't because it was the only gratifying and that we had now solved all the problems, but it was an attempt to point to one area in which we have to intervene, and where we have to see whether this system prevents the implementation of the content of the reforms. That's what I was trying to say about. This isn't the only grip we have to do – just so it's clarified. A year ago – in June last year – we discussed the Training Act. In this connection, I made a proposal on my own work environment regulations for students and students. Initially, we wanted in SV a separate work environment law for students and students. We also had a suggestion. We drew that proposal because the Council of State said he would come back to Stortinget with a message where he would discuss these issues. He promised he would come back to the Storting in the course of this spring. Now it's not that long again, so I guess there won't be any case for the Stortingen on its own work environment regulation – let me clarify the determination. The representative, Mr Jagland, was also concerned about this, and was concerned that we should develop our own regulations. Then we talk not only about regulations regulating the physical working environment, but also the content of the learning environment and in that context the situation of students. We have a proposal today, and I believe that there is quite broad support for that proposal. I would like the Council of State to comment on this, and I would also like him to comment on the second proposal that goes on at the youth age.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e474	When I mentioned what the representative Reikvam said about the characters in his post, it was to illustrate that there are good scholastic strokes that have been closed with it, and that it would therefore be interesting to look at it too. But there's only one of many things that we need to try out. When it's about the textbooks, we actually have a process there. That's exactly what Reikvam says, that the way we do it today has sides to it, and we also have a work going on in relation to that. So health, environment and security. I have to be sorry first because I can't keep what I said last year, that the document comes in to us. I am still waiting for a cross-ministerial group to be completed. It's my responsibility, along with other government councils, that it's not – I don't owe anyone else. But the reality is that, first of all, we need to look at how the health, environmental and security regulations have worked, how much has been implemented, and what kind of measures you might need to take to influence the municipalities to the extent that they are not. That's the first thing we need to get an overview of and come back with. The second thing is, what's missing in addition to the report, because we don't have to have something on top of each other? There is also a need to do a political work in the ministry. I expect to receive this report during May. I was going to put this out first in the government budget, where a lot of things are going to be taken out, but at the same time some people have said to me that it might not be the most suitable document. So the time perspective is the autumn, and then we'll see if we're going to create a separate document or have it with another one. But then it will come. When it comes to youth, there are some test media in Reform 97 that we're going to turn against the youth sphere.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e486	In the course of the debate, I have recorded that there is now a majority for higher adult density in high school. The question will then be: When and in what form can the Council of State come to the Grand Duchy of Great Britain in this case with a higher adult density in high school, as expressed by the majority here today? The Labour Party has had this goal for a long time. The second point is left on the responsibility for negotiation. Then I would like to ask the Council of State if he can justify why it has been included in the statement, and what reason lies behind the fact that the Council of State and the Government will consider transferring the negotiating responsibility from the state to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e493	When it comes to the first, I have already submitted to Stortinget a proposal for an experiment in 15 municipalities with a method of increasing the density of adult education, and there are also other ways to do it. I want to look at the setting and the debate that comes with those messages. I look forward to that. I think we need to develop the systems, which I know can work in relation to that. Then to the negotiations. At present, a great many letters to the Ministry come from municipalities, county councils and from a number of party teams dealing with this issue. The last time we evaluated it, the government said that during this tariff period we would keep the system as it is, but that we should have a thorough review before the next main tariff negotiation. As so many have actually made recordings, and that is the case in the course of the year, I thought it was natural to say that such an assessment is going on. It also logically relates to what I have said about greater local self-government. There can certainly be logic in that conclusion. But at the same time, the central framework is a different argument. That's why I haven't concluded yet. But I have to admit, when it says here that there may seem to be different views in the government party – that's for sure – that the one who goes hardest on me to get me to do something about this is a worker partyman, that's the leader of the KS, Halvdan Skard.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e502	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e505	To the end, as I see it, there was a somewhat clumsy remark, if I can express it this way: I would assume that Halvdan Skard exercises what the determining bodies in KS say. More and more in Norway have received much higher education in the last 20-30 years. In 1970, nearly three out of four had low education. In the mid-1990s, there were three out of four graduates. And Norway is currently at the top of its education among OECD countries. In particular, there are women who have been educated. We now experience that there are more young women than young men who have higher education. In the workplace, too, the education picture has turned completely upside down over the last few decades. In 1980, there were twice as many low-skilled workers. 15 years later, the proportion of primary school-only workers was almost halved. At the same time, hundreds of thousands of new higher education workers came into the labour market. In the mid-1990s, 30 pst. by the employees of university or higher education. The trend is therefore clear: older low-skilled workers leave the labour market and are replaced by young people with higher education. That's why it's been and is very important what Stortinget has done in relation to lifelong learning. Workers must therefore be constantly refilled with new knowledge and develop and update their qualifications. Much of lifelong learning will happen at work, and businesses will become an increasingly important place of learning. The need for continuing training will also increase, for those in work will become increasingly older over the next 10-20 years, while at the same time recruiting new workers will become less young. It is therefore gratifying that there has been such broad support for the reform of continuing education and training, which has been dealt with earlier this year. But it is a very important factor that remains – I hope the Council of State sees it, even though he has not put so much into it – namely the motivation factor for older workers. The other thing that has happened during the same period is the admission of women to work. In addition to the 1970s, there were a large number of women entering the labour market, and participation in the labour market grew sharply. In fact, there have never been as many paid jobs in Norway as they are now. More than seven out of ten persons of working age are currently at work. This trend is related to a significant increase in education levels over the last 20 to 30 years, and, as mentioned above, especially for women. I'm not going to criticize the Council of State, but there's one thing I'm asking for in the statement. 15-20 years ago, we had a highly gendered labour market, and the labour market is still gendered. But we also record the same within the education cycle, that the situation in the education cycle today is that it is strongly gendered. There is no doubt that new, clear steps must be taken from primary school in relation to the means we want to use to reverse the gender-divided pattern of education, which will in turn affect working life. For men continue to choose more — and significantly more — education in industry, science and technology, while women continue to choose professions related to health and care in a large majority. I had hoped that the Council of State would have taken some of the developments when we think about the millennial change, about how we're going to break down the gender-divided educational society we have in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e522	The President may say that the word 'flocked' is not a parliamentary expression and should therefore not be used in this Chamber. The speakers who are given the floor now have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e527	The Council of State's policy on education and training came at a time when several other issues of education policy were to be addressed by the Committee and the Stortinget in the near future. It may therefore also be called for to be an annual report on education policy, without any particular vision of future challenges. State councils have spent a lot of time and effort lately telling them that they are now going to break the central education policy pursued by the Labour Party in recent years. And what do we see? Yes, no new proposals, no new reforms or ideas that will change this line, with the exception of a highly beloved review of youth practice. Of course, I'm not sorry to see that the central government is satisfied with the educational policy path that the Labour Party in its time drew up. The main challenge today is to maintain a strong, high-quality public education system. I think that the development of the public education system is dangerous, when we see that today's government approves private schools to a large extent. State reports from the State Education Offices tell of large and increasing differences between municipalities and county municipalities. It is not in line with the principle of an equivalent training provision and the single school mindset. Another moment is the right party's demand for greater competition in the school. There is also talk of putting out competition and financing the price. Such thoughts are in no way a contribution to improving quality and equivalency. That's why, in the Labour Party, we are strong conundrums of the public university ball, which is not an A4 ball, and of values like fair distribution of educational goods and equal rights to education for all. There are two major challenges for Norwegian schools. It's about providing enough resources that enhance the quality of both human health, care, equality and professional levels. Everything needs to be done to ensure the best recruitment to school. An educational institution cannot raise itself to a higher quality than the teacher can claim, and the teacher must help him to create a school that is so good that all parents voluntarily choose it for their children. The second main challenge is active action for plans targeting bullying and racism. And here I think it's a lot of fun.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e542	The government, as a vision, has a higher level of quality awareness at all levels of education policy, and the Lilletun Council is committed to strengthening the school. We have a good starting point for further development into a new millennium, it's said in the presentation. Visions hang high. You're going to have to stretch towards them. However, good intentions – without suitable framework conditions – will be difficult to achieve. Then it'll be with beautiful words. The statement points out that tough priority in municipal budgets often threatens the school structure. Right enough, but I allow myself to claim that it may well be so bad that tough priority in the municipal budgets lowers the general standard in the school and depletes the content. The school is in a kind of a time lag, and I'll mention two important factors. Firstly, the constant increase in earmarked grants reduces municipal freedom of action. Earmarking and excesses bind municipal funds to a large extent and children and young people’s growing conditions can become the losing party. Secondly, the income base of municipalities is different. We have 'poor' municipalities, and we have 'rich' municipalities. The efforts of individual municipalities are not necessarily directed against the school system. The growing conditions of children and young people can become the losing party in the fight for the municipal crowns. My reference framework is a medium-sized industrial town in Eastern Europe – a low-income municipality that has lost state resources because it has not been able to afford to finance its equity, a municipality that has experienced very poor GSI statistics in recent years. The school's contents have lost in the fight for the municipal crowns. My point is that there must not be too much distance between objectives and resources in education policy. The Council's presentation sketches both visions and goals into a new millennium, and that's good and good. But the way to achieve these goals is said to be too small. The keyword is resources, both human and material. The fight for the crowns is the major challenge of the municipal sector, and it is not obvious that the school is winning the fight – the fight for the free means of the municipalities. So I'm not sure at all that the school has a good enough starting point for the further development into a new millennium.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e557	We have been presented with a statement that is not very specific, but has many words, as has been said by several people here today. As you can see, the Council of State Lilletun is representative of the government that he has presented on behalf of. Ministerial Council Lilletun referred to his Head of Government Bondevik and his quality requirements for the future society in the presentation – demand for ‘own innovation, a solidarity and a safer Norway’. When it comes to the innovative, it's not what has shaped the Council of State and his party. On the contrary, when the Workers' Party is in favour of reform 94, reform 96, and not least now that we have been really fighting for the reform of further education and training in recent times, the Government and the Government Party have been brake blocks. They have now also made it a virtue to be a brake pad and to take a reform break. In terms of solidarity, the last year has shown us that the local economy provides a very poor starting point for good solidarity in school policies. We have the worst municipal budget since the 1980s, says the municipalities. And that also shows the numbers. We have more earring than we've ever had, even though the government says we're going to have less. When the Government chose the Right and Advance Party as partners, they chose the option of having a better community structure that could also provide room for more investment in the school. In competition with the earmarked funds, the free means would enable them to do so. As far as safety is concerned, I don't think those who are following the development of kindergartens feel more secure. Nor do I believe those who have been hit by the cuts in the school leisure system feel that the government has offered them more security. And I don't think anyone who reads the proposal for the municipal economic proposition for the year 2000 will find signals about a new course – on the contrary. There are signals to follow the same course further. In my opinion, this government is not innovative. This government is not solidarity either, and it does not create security in school policy. When the Council of State Lilletun uses the fine words in its introduction, it must rely on the poor pedagogical principle – which many parents have tried to do to their children – that we should do as Lilletun says, but certainly not as Lilletun does.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e570	The little children are full of learning. They keep asking and getting answers, and learning this way. Then they start school, and they're very happy to start school. But then we – at least I experienced it with my children, and I think there are a lot of people with me – that learning gradually fades. There's something about our school system that makes learning less and less as the school years go. At a hearing on high school where both the Council of State and I were not so long ago, the conclusions of the students were the clear message that it was boring. The teacher taught the same way he did 30 years ago, with catheter education. The students sat in the classroom, and the teacher preached from the catheter and wrote on the board. And read from there to there to the next day! I just talked to a principal who teaches mathematics at a high school, and he said, now I have these ninth grade students. I started teaching them mathematics when they started in the seventh grade, and they might as little today as when they started. These are serious signals to us as politicians. It's a big challenge for us to create a school where the students from they are children and until they become adults, thrive, want to learn, and where we don't kill curiosity and learning. I'm glad there's a broad political consensus to do something now. In high school, pedagogics have flourished. But further up in the classes, in high school, we have a great job to do, and I'm glad there's now a great political consensus here in the Stortinge that we have to grips with this. I am also pleased that there have been signs that we need to look at mathematics education. I show you, among other things: to Grete Knudsen's articles. I think we have a lot to do when it comes to changing this subject. What I want to take for myself, [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e585	I guess there's going to be a lot of advice about that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e588	School is an important venue for dialogue and community. It is therefore nice that the Minister of Education takes the value perspective into account in training as one of the most important points in the presentation. Here, the new CRL subject is an important ingredient. As the majority said in 1994, the single school also focuses on common traditions and values, knowledge and reference frameworks for skills and attitudes. The challenge has been to take account of minorities on the one hand and to retain the national cultural identity of the thousand-year period on the other. Before this subject was introduced in 1997, 94 pst. by children in primary school Christian knowledge. Now all primary school students will have a common subject, where students who belong to different religions and views of life will meet others and gain knowledge of each other's traditions and beliefs. The trade works largely well beyond the country, showing messages. But some teachers feel uncertain about what they can say and do in the hours. This is why it is important to provide more training for teachers in this particular subject, and I expect the department to follow this up. Some parents have, as they know, also tried this subject in court. However, after an overall assessment, the city law found that education in the CRL field did not violate international conventions on human rights, and the state was freed in the lawsuit. This is correct now. However, the judgment states that the court has had the impression that the school and the teachers have largely succeeded in arriving at a system of exemptions that is practical. In addition, it says: ‘When assessing the CRL subject and human rights, it is important to emphasise that the subject aims to engage in dialogue between different groups, despite religious and life-seen lines. The fruit of the dialogue shall be increased understanding and tolerance. This is in accordance with the spirit of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 10 December 1948. For the World Declaration, the aim is ‘freedom, justice and peace in the world’. «Life-vision-neutral education is neither possible nor desirable» says amanuensis Signe Sandsmark in his doctoral thesis in pedagogy. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the school is a clear valuer, and that teachers, together with their parents, develop social and ethical attitudes and abilities. It's when children become familiar with adults who are clear about their choices, that they themselves are challenged to choose. Parents can easily become invisible in school context. School-home cooperation is therefore very central also in secondary school. Here it should be even better to make good plans about this. I agree that we do not need any more reforms, but that the main challenge now is to be able to implement the good intentions of what is already, and I am pleased that the Minister of Education will now address the youth in particular, how to achieve greater teacher coverage and less paperwork, among others.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e605	The Council of State initially said in the statement that we are about to leave a decade where we have reformed the Norwegian education system from cellar to ceiling. It's quite right, but it's with respect to report no excuse for being so unyielding, so without direction and perspective and as little offensive as the central government is in education policy. We're looking at it in the area by area, and I'm going to mention two, because I only have three minutes. First of all, school books. When Stortinget dealt with a Document No. Eight proposals on school books in January last year pointed out to the centre parties that they thought school box grants were a better system than school book loans. But in the questionnaire last Wednesday, Lilletun said straight out that neither school book loans nor school-book grants are any priority area for this government. But what the Council of State, according to the answer in the questionnaire, would still consider is whether to finance school books by means of advertising. I can't see that leaving something that should be a societal task – that of providing textbooks in high school – to companies that have only one purpose, namely to sell more of what they produce, can at all be in line with the fine words that values and less consumption and materialism are going to become more focused. Secondly, in the statement it is said so fine that the Council of State will create more student participation, and he says: ‘There is simply every reason to take seriously research that shows that greater student participation increases well-being and motivation.’ I fully agree, but what does the same department in the Storing Communication that evaluates Reform 94 and which the Committee is now dealing with? Well, on page 96, it says: ‘Questions can be asked about whether students’ — and here we are talking about high school with people who also have voting rights — ‘are mature enough to be motivated to be active in this type of planning’. This is when you talk about participating in the planning of teaching – and the message concludes that the level of ambition needs to be reduced a little. One thing is to go back on promises you have made in the election campaign, but when you say in a statement that you want more student participation and the same council in a message that he made just before, says the opposite, then you can wonder who is mature and who is not mature. I think it's incredibly defensive. It is, in my opinion, reactionary, and I can only believe that this is an attitude that the Council of State stands alone in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e626	The government councils and representatives of the government parties have made a lot of speeches in this debate. You talk about letting the teachers go, let the thousands of flowers bloom, that changes have to come from below, and you have to turn the pyramid around. But the reality of the policy is that they cut the offer at school. Grovest is cutting them into the school leisure system, and we do not see them revised as giving priority to the school leisure system. It's obvious that kids of working parents have no priority at all in this government, probably because they don't fit into the Christian People's Party's dream of what a family should look like. There was a little debate between the Council of State and the representative, Mr Igland, earlier in the debate on bets in private schools or not, as the Council of State wants there to be alternatives for people and opportunities to choose. Just to underline it: what is the Workers' Party's point is that there is a serious problem when the funds are prioritised away from the common solutions, away from the solutions that we should all be able to use, from the arrangements that may apply to us all, and over to more private schemes and more or less sectarian offers for a few. It's a serious problem, and if the government doesn't understand it, they should strictly go in and think again. So it is said that the new course, the new education policy, is that now everything is going to come from below. If that means working with the parties and having local adaptations in education, we are in complete agreement, but in that case there is nothing new at all. If, on the other hand, there is an attack at the primary school and the introduction of the differential school around the country, and if that means that now you have to sedentate the school, waiting for it to change itself, it is a dangerous development. For example – it was about changing high school – if you want to sit down and wait for the changes to count on a mountain and happen by themselves, I think very little will happen. We need to have a education policy that is in progress, and we need to constantly adapt the school to the changing needs of society. It requires that we have active and good organisations for teachers and students, and we do, but it also requires that we have politicians and, not least, a government council that dares to take responsibility, that dares to cut through, and that dares to take a stand on how to get a better school. I'm not as sure that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e635	It has been a very positive debate in many ways when it comes to direction signals. But it's right as many people say, that it has come very little concrete. As you know, it is on the fruit that the tree should be known, so if this debate becomes a time-share in Norwegian school policy, it is to be seen. The worst thing about the school bat, as I see it, is not that we're disagreeable, because we're going to be. The worst thing is that I feel that a lot is so wrapped up in rhetoric that unsemja doesn't really show up. There's a lot of honeymoon that's swirling back and forth. They are used by different people in different ways and are more involved in obfuscating the debate than in clarifying it. Another point that has been indented is that you should not have schools other than the unit's ball. The unicorn is something we all think we should have, but we might put a little bit of different things in this orbit. We're all a few in that we're going to have an equivalent offer for everyone in the base ball, but we don't have to let this be an obstacle to exciting alternatives, both in private and public school. There's a big difference between a uniform and an equivalent scholastic supply. We need the private schools. The representative, Norvoll, was concerned that there were too many resources available. But we need private schools, both as an alternative and as a promoter of innovation – also in public schools. In fact, these schools cost the public monthly less than the public schools. They are only covered part of the operating costs and none of the investment costs. The representative Jagland was inside and sent a little greeting to the Right in his post. He asserted quite boldly that the Right would introduce advertising funded school books. It is quite right, as my co-representative-wages said earlier today, that this matter is quite peripheral. First of all, we don't want to introduce commercial school books. What we've said is that if there's someone who wants to give elephants in the secondary school free textbooks and the students are willing to accept advertisements in these books, that's as far as I know, not something that prevents this. There's still no one who has suggested stopping what's already going on in Norway. So here's no question about introducing anything, but whether to stop something, and I can't see it's the least reason to stop this if the market and the provider are some.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e651	I listened with great interest to Thorbjørn Jagland's contributions to this debate, and tried to count billions along the way – as it would be if you took all the good purposes that he listed, on the word and convert them into money – but had to give up a bit in the post because my tax collector doesn't go that far. What Thorbjørn Jagland said, was that without money it is not possible to keep any direction. If one were to take it seriously, one must be allowed to ask again: how has the Labour Party itself been able to follow up on the difficult ambitions last year and in the years when the government was in place? It's not true, as Thorbjørn Jagland said, that during the reign of the Workers' Party, there was only expansion and only an increase in the number of places of study. The last thing that happened was that the budget the government of Jagland left behind when it went off, had a cut of 2,000 study places. We in the committee had quite a headache afterwards to remedy the adverse effects of that. It was an unprepared and quite dramatic cut for higher education. I have also listened with some wonder to several speakers from the Workers' Party who are driving massively against private schools as if they were an attack at the Universities School. In the past, the Workers' Party has distinguished life-vision private schools from educational alternatives. If one is to take seriously what has been said in this debate, it must mean that the party also regards the Steinerschole and Montessori schools as an attack on the college and something they would prefer to disappear from the Norwegian school landscape. Now, the Council of State did not mention with a single word in its presentation the private schools, and that is, in my opinion, a greater reason to criticize him for. Because when the main message is diversity and freedom of choice, that is what matters. That's right per. Today, only one and a half percent of Norwegian primary school students attend private schools. Some serious threat to the single school can be difficult. But it's an important feature, both in terms of religious freedom, and of parents' right to choose a pedagogical alternative. It is also a very important incentive for public schools to pick up impulses and innovation. So I would say that if at this point there is any reason to criticise the Council of State's educational policy statement, it is because it did not contain this element.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e660	There has been an interesting debate today, and it has been tense over many parts of the education sector. I want to comment on a few specific issues. The representative, Konglevoll, was in a line earlier today on the need to reduce the price of textbooks. I understood it there that she was not particularly positive about our proposal to remove the book business agreement, although this would give lower prices to textbooks. It is my hope that she will then consider other proposals that can help bring prices down. We find that there is no money for subsidizing or boxing. As we see it, there is then one alternative that can be used to co-finance books, namely advertising. Konglevoll had in mind this in her post earlier, and I would ask her perhaps to consider that view, and not have a full fundamentalist view as she sketched in her post. I think that advertising funding can be done in an excellent way that does not seem offensive to either teachers or students. It can also be mentioned that so-called school journals have been advertised over a longer period of time without any apparent shyness. Otherwise, I noticed the line change earlier today between the representatives Wohnning and Upbeøen Hansen, where the representative Wohnning believed that advertising-funded books were too ‘perfect’ to be commented on, and in part it was corrected by the representative Løvik recently. But the prices of school books are not peripheral to the Progress Party. In fact, it is so important that we have presented a Document No. Eight proposals on the book-keeping agreement in this area. Speaking of right hand and cord changer. In a succession between the Right and Christian People's Party where Mr. Løvik was engaged, he was concerned that the party Right is a visionary party that was putting out the course for a new school policy. I could imagine quoting the country's heaviest Right Paper, the Evening Post, which recently wrote: ‘Many of the solutions Fr.p. the proposed in e.g. health and school policy, now copied by the Right in almost identical form,...»; As a practical example, I can mention the new idea of giving good teachers better pay. This was launched by the Progress Party as early as December 1987 in this Chamber. Furthermore, we have had an interesting debate on the right to negotiate today. It was about a time after Stortinget dealt with Document No. The 8th proposal on this subject by the Progress Party. However, I welcome the government parties' capacity for innovation in this area and hope that further consideration will be given to this matter. A little heartbreak: had it been local politicians from the same parties who had discussed this matter, I think we had had a majority for changes already.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e680	I will be allowed to thank the Council of State for the answer he gave me to my question about standardizing PC usage in school – which, moreover, was not the answer you should expect from the question. But it illustrates why IT Fornebu has become such a tough topic of debate as it has become. My question and my arguments actually came up with something as simple as a definition or specification of the needs of a 6-year-old, a 10-year-old, a 15-year-old and an 18-year-old, a nursing student's need for IT in her study period, or the need for the student with, for example, physics as a main subject. What characterizes all of these different groupings is actually that their need is different. So they don't need the same equipment, they don't need the same software. And if the needs are defined in this way, when you invest these rather large amounts, you save money through a need-driven investment budget, and you get an additional gain by allowing machines to phase down through the systems as they no longer meet the highest level of demand. This also provides a significant gain. Because when the main subject student in physics no longer has the full benefit of the equipment he has received, because it is old-fashioned or not functional, perhaps the nurse student can use it with great benefit, and in a few years the 6-year-olds. This is what I asked the Council of State to comment on, and I hope that he can be willing to discuss it in a different context, because there are an awful lot of millions in savings here if you see the possibility of working on the basis of a need specification for the individual age groups.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e689	One might wonder if today's debate has led us on to the educational issues and challenges we face. I think that the right hand side has known answers to such questions, and there have probably not been so many surprises from that side. On the other hand, I think it's more exciting what has come from the center part, so we've heard today that we're going to let the teachers go – not just because it's ours. We have heard that more image and power should be added to the municipalities. So, as others have also said, the changes would come from below, and maybe we'll get a differentiation of the pay for the teachers. And if I didn't hear wrong, the Christian People's Party wanted to consider introducing minimum standards. One thing that can be seen is that there are several numbers to increase the maturity of the youth school, and I am looking forward to the Council of State mentioning it in the budget for the autumn. What's a little bit unclear is how the central party as a party stands on these questions, the ones that actually have the most quoted statements from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Another issue is the state reports that are produced in each state. It brings with it a very bureaucracy, what we're talking about all the time trying to reduce. I have found that the Council of State has commented on this situation and said that reporting is important, but that reporting should be more targeted. It seemed to me to be very positive, and I hope that the Council of State will follow it up quite soon. Education policy is to enable everyone who wants to receive education to do so. Of course, school books are also included in such questions. I have then registered that Inge Wohnning has not talked about his big case, i.e. school books that are to be financed by advertising, but have said that it was a «perifer» case. And I thought the representative Løvik actually made a brave attempt to explain what it really was, but I thought it was even more unclear now. The party of progress is probably the party that made it clear in its argument. Finally, I have a question to the Council of State, and it applies to temporary admission requirements for technical disciplines. There I can actually refer to a circular from the department that says that applicants who have a professional letter must also be admitted to the school. And that's pretty clear what's going to happen, you're going to have a letter to get into the school. Is there anything that the government can say about the admission regulations?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e702	There are a lot of things that have been wanted, which one think should be included in the distribution, and I'm in many of those requests, for example. the request from the representative 'Sun for the private spheres. But I got very strict notice from both the presidency and the committee that 30 minutes was the maximum speaking time. I respected that, I spent 29 1⁄2 minutes, and then I hope people ask me about it. So it's been said from a lot that I've spent a lot of time later criticising the education reform and the Labour Party. I haven't done that. I have even said that we have a good foundation wall to build on. But I've said that more flexibility is absolutely necessary. It is necessary to reverse the pyramid. It's not right that our party leader, Valgerd Reply City Haugland, has just said that we're going to have a reform break. She said we should have a reform break, but not a development break. So we're going to try to create the reforms in another way. It's a challenge, and it's hard, but that doesn't mean we're not going to try. The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, said that we have been a brake pad in relation to these reforms. That's not correct. When it came to Reform 97, we were against the 6-year-olds going in, but not against pedagogy. When it comes to reform 94, we have always wanted some more flexibility, but we have supported the principle. And that's how I could keep going. The representative then says Andersen that this government is not innovative. No, that's absolutely right, but we want a policy that creates an innovative Norway. It's that triggering the cancers out in the people, out in Education-Noreg and out in the business that's innovative. Politicians don't create jobs, it's what others do. I agree with the representative Rune E. Kristiansen that there is a problem with the gender-shared education market, we have some measures in relation to that, but not enough. I also agree that creating the motivation of older workers to enter the labour market is a huge job, and we have not done it well enough. On the other hand, I do not agree with the representative, Mr Konglevoll, when she says that we are not interested in student participation. We've taken seriously the evaluation we've had, and the research around it, and it says something about the way we've dealt with it, both from the teacher and the student, the way we've put it up. That's why, when it comes to being so involved with the school's goal – about curriculum development – we have said that we need to put it down, and then we need to define where we can have real participation that really means something. When it comes to textbooks, we're too schoolboys, but I said that wasn't what was the highest priority now of the new money we could possibly put into school. That's quite right what Anneliese Dørum says. She describes the contents well. That's why the framework is there, but we need to create new content, with development. When it comes to the question that came now from Oppebøen Hansen, it is right that we have not dealt well enough with technical disciplines and the recording requirements. We've been trying to clean it up, and I'm going to give a written statement to the representative Uppøen Hansen about, if he wants to. It takes too long to do it now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e721	The President makes it clear that there are still a large number of speakers who have signed up for three-minute speeches, and the President will, for the sake of order, remember that there are still issues that require more hours of debate. The President just reminds us of the consequences of this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e724	I think we can say that there is really quite a broad consensus between the government parties and the Workers' Party on Norwegian education policy. We have been united on a large scale on the major reforms. It is the Right and Advance Party that have been the strongest opponents to the reforms that we have adopted. When I asked for the word again, it was enough to extend the debate, but it was also because in my previous post I was not asked the question I had to the Council of State. I'm worried about the conditions of our smallest schoolchildren. Most of the young children's parents are at work. It's over 70 pst. of all women aged between 26 and 60 who are economically active. And as Rune E. Kristiansen said in his article, there are now more women than men who take higher education, and of course women also want to use their education, they want to be economically independent. So the ideal society, in any case, someone thinks, where mother is at home and father is at work and the kids come home to mother after school day, we don't. We have to see reality as it is. Anne Brit Stråtveit was not particularly concerned about the school leisure arrangements and the cutting that the government was forced to do, I would say, in connection with the treatment of the budget, because she thought that the cash support scheme would lead to many more people being at home by day. But I don't think it will help for so many of the babies who come home from school. The size has also recognised, at least the government parties and the Workers' Party, that we must have a school leisure system. We have also legislated it, we did so a year ago here in the Grand Duchy, against the voices of the Right and the Advance Party. Then we also legalized that there should be a third of the costs between the state, the municipality and the user. Then, unfortunately, one of the first large number of people does after they have passed the law is to reduce the state's grant by 30 pst. It's very worrying. For whom will the increased costs be borne? Will this lead to poorer quality? What children are not on school leave? Will the Council of State give us a situation report on the budget for the autumn, so we'll get an overview of the situation? And is there any chance that the Government will increase the grant now?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e736	It's a little interesting to notice how the Labour Party in the debate swings up in the clouds to boast of how merciless they are when it comes to school policy. And then Anneliese Dørum's representative just came forward and said that there's not really much difference between central government and the Labour Party's policy. Understand the one who can. My country was also up and made a contribution, where he particularly pointed out that the youth in the backbone had failed. Yeah, I wrote that down. But just as fully it was Jagland and the Labour Party that got Reform 97 introduced. It was actually some of us who worked in the school and some who have worked in some political party, who warned and said a little too little emphasis on the youth stage of Reform 97. But we didn't listen. That time one should have everything from below. I was so lucky – or unlucky, to say so – that I, as the head of growth in a municipality, was able to manage this on the municipal side, where we were to introduce Reform 97. There wasn't enough money. There was not enough bet from the Workers' Party for this to be a good result. Reform 97 has, in my opinion, come at least one year too early. Reform 94 has also excluded a number of young people, namely those over 19 years of age, from being able to obtain education. The representative Anneliese Dørum told the story of a principal who taught mathematics and who had had the class from 7th to 9th grade. The students had not learned anything at all. They could be as small in the 9th grade as they could in the 7th grade. This would be a so-called truth witness because there was something wrong with the school. My claim is that there must be something wrong with the teacher. Had I discovered after three years of mathematics education in the youth school that my students could not do more in the 9th grade than when I took them in the 7th grade, I would have applied for dismissal – if not in mercy, so at least dismissed – and found me another job. I do not disagree with the representative Dørum that we should do a lot of work in the school, new pedagogical measures osb. But we also have to be allowed to make demands on the teachers, and it should be so that teachers who can't learn the class say something math in three years, maybe they should find something else to do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e749	The representative of Dørum claimed that the right has opposed the school reforms. It's a mildly one-sided storywriting. It does not make much sense at all to discuss for and against reforms in general. What we are discussing today, on the basis of the Minister of Education's statement, is a number of problems which are partly due to the major and ambitious reforms, or rather, which are due to the trend of systemic compulsion that has occurred in some of these reforms. And it's probably about reform 94 in particular. The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen had a post in which he copied his party leader, who, over the years, has become more and more aware that all thoughts in this world are first thought by the Progress Party. It reminds me a little bit of Bjørnstar Bjørnson. About him, Georg Brandes once said in a polemics that the difference between Our Lord and Bear Star Bjørnson is that our Lord knows everything, but Bear Star Bjørnson knows everything better.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e758	The President must confess his sin. He had forgotten to register that the representative's salary twice before had the word, and the pay measured speaking time is thus 1 minute. The President wants to ask you, sir. Wages and salaries for termination of the article.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e761	Thank you, sir. President. My point was really just to clarify that there is a fundamental difference between the Right School and Education policies and the Advance Party, and it consists in the fact that the Progress Party to date consists exclusively of improvisations, without any connection.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e768	The president's sorry he had to improvise here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e771	To the end, I can at least say that I often experience that it is the Progress Party that says what the Right really means. In today's debate, we have stressed the need for a high-quality high-level school of unity, which is, of course, primarily because you have to learn, but also because you have to learn to be with others with whom you are going to form society in the next round. It is not least important in multicultural Norway. On the part of the Council of State and on the part of the Government Parties, it is clear that the new orientation that the Government is now festering will take place within the existing law, for which the Workers' Party has previously laid the foundations, together with not least the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. That is why we support the need to make framework plans and curricula more flexible, because it is, of course, developing the reforms further. They must be reformed all the way. But it would be sad — in a new era where there are so many changes — if you don't always think in school policy that you have to work with reforms. Not least, we need to look at how children and young people learn in a visual everyday life. There are therefore many of the existing reforms we will have to reform again and again. And now what we've been calling for is that the youth should get into the spotlight by increasing the number of adults. I therefore hope that the Council of State in the State budget will come back with a proposal to increase the number of adults. I also hope that it is possible to do a grip – business and public together – to increase the number of PCs in primary school, according to the pattern you have seen in Akershus and in Bergen. Finally, the reform of continuing education will also require a tremendous change in secondary education and in all our higher education institutions. And the one who talks about that we're going to stand still, can't have taken those challenges seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e782	First, I want to confirm to the representative of Dørum that in the state budget we will have an analysis of developments within the school leisure system. I already gave the first messages in the distribution, but we're going to deepen it in the state budget. So far there's no dramatic difference, but it's just numbers, so we're going to go deeper into it, and we're going to report back. Then the representative Grete Knudsen says that it would be sad if we went into a new thousand years without reform. What I need to signal to teachers, parents and elephants is that we don't have to have more major reforms as quickly as we've had in the last few years, but we're not going to have any development breaks. So it has not been a matter of stopping from this government, and I don't think anyone in the hall either, but it's a matter of lifting a certain reform desk, which actually has a lot of doctors in the school. It's a recognition based on the evaluations that we have going on, it's not primarily criticism. It's a recognition, and then we take the consequences of it. Otherwise, I share a lot of the reflections that the representative Knudsen now had at the end. I could probably lead a long line of arguments here about who said things first and did things first and why etc. The reality is that the turnaround of the focus, the turnaround of the pyramid has been greatly upset, and then there will be a joint job both in connection with the five messages that have now been made available in spring and in the state budget, to launch a policy that makes Norwegian school one of the world's best schools. Of course, it will be on resources. It's going to be able, but I also think it's going to be able to cooperate. I think we're going to be a little bit neater to sound like each other. That's actually what I've been trying to say today, that you can get smart politics and smart thinking from most of the groups, because I think the kids are so close to us that one is so busy that they're going to have the best possible. Of course, unsavory will come to the surface, of course there will be names, of course the Council of State will tolerate criticism, but I hope that it is the matter that is superior and not the tactic of political positioning. I thought it was interesting to be here -- I'm not sure those waiting for the next debate thought it was the same.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e791	Ursula Evje has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e794	Yes, President, I think I'll be fine with one minute. It's getting a little weird, at least for me as Frp-er, when the representative Grete Knudsen gets to say that the Progress Party says what the Right thinks. As far as I know, we're neither clairvoyant nor do we have any kind of witchcraft in our party, we're pretty straightforward. But pay said something that I really liked. He said we were improvising. Yes, maybe we do, because when you improvise and play good jazz at the same time, it starts to swing – also for the representative Wage. And if that's what we make it do for the right, we've done a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e803	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 322]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e821	There is a broad consensus that we have a number of unsolved transport tasks around us. Some places lack roads, others have too bad roads. That is why we are systematically building up the Norwegian road transport system. The use of resources in the transport sector must, of course, be incorporated into our overall economic policy. This means that the level of investment in, among others: roads need to be adapted to the overall level of activity and that these investments need to be prioritised in relation to other important societal tasks. At the beginning of this ageing period, we knew that there was a need to mitigate the pressure in the Norwegian economy, and there was a broad consensus that it was now time to put older people and health at the top of the political priority list. This was the background to the transport plans presented by the government of Jagland in the spring of 1997, and that is the basis for the Workers' Party's transport policy this period. The current government parties disdainfully expressed their views on the level of investment to which the Workers' Party provided. Only in the road sector, it was promised NOK 5.3 billion more this period if only the Christian People's Party and the Center Party got a pass for their will together with the Right. The promises were confirmed after the batches entered the government position – but they were not kept. On the contrary, the Government cut the national road investments by 10 pst. from 1998 to 1999, and they received the support of the Right and Advance Party for a clear economic approach to the transport sector. In the Sunnmørspost on 19 April this year, the new Minister of Transport “fell out of the bag”. The Prime Minister had made it clear to the Minister for Transport that he should have no hope of any increase in transport appropriations in the years to come. The message from the Minister of Transport was that ‘people have to think that we are at the low level that we are at today’. Yes, the reports from the counties are even that the next period is now planned on the basis of the continuation of the 1999 annual framework, which may be much lower than the current framework, which the current government parties so strongly criticised. There is no need for an in-depth knowledge of the transport sector to establish that the local will for new investment goes far beyond the framework set up by the Government. It's possible to cover the distance of your own promises, so the government has chosen a new twist: split and worked. Representatives from the Government have traveled country and beach around and set new hopes, and Fjærvoll continues in a familiar style: ‘I have no scruples to point to tolls as a good solution.’ And around the country, the challenge has been met, confident that good initiatives will be rewarded with implementation. Major processes are in progress, some of which are heated debates about toll projects being carried out – for the Government to be involved in ‘pleasure and hard work’. There are now over 70 new toll projects under planning. This is well and good for projects that are 100 pst. tolls financed, but there are hardly any. The assumption – and expectation – is state sub-financing of at least 50 p.m., and then the question is addressed to the Government: Where is this money? The government does not intend to keep the road plan, much less to fulfill its own promises to many projects beyond the road plan, and much less to 70 projects beyond it again. The government creates expectations that it itself knows it cannot meet. First, the government breaks promises given before the option, so the government breaks expectations created after the option. Or is the Council of State prepared to hold up the expectation of state co-financing in all the projects? The working party is in favour of toll financing, but we need to see the projects in the context, so that there is no undue burden on the drivers on some sections. You have to be able to get up in fourth gear before you meet a new toll station. In addition, of course, the country’s share of the toll projects must be included in the overall priority of the pesticides. Toll financing is not a shortcut to money from the State budget. There are many well-founded local toll initiatives. For example, the Labour Party has: have been a driver for relieving the road system in the Oslo area through the development of a better provision of public transport services. We believe that a plan based on the principles of Oslopacket 2 is necessary. The government has an obvious responsibility for the matter being well prepared and all relevant questions settled before it is submitted to Stortinget. But I do not conceal that we are amazed that important questions are raised only one and a half years after the department got the plan, after the municipal government, city government and county council have dealt with it, and after the time the government has promised it before. The Labour Party also believes that there is a need to improve transport services along E6 and E18 in Eastfold, and welcomes the work on a so-called Eastfold package. We will be prepared to deal with this matter when the Government finds that it has a basis for submitting it, as we have been prepared to deal with the North-Jear transport plan, which is to be dealt with here today. At the same time, we all have to admit that we face a dilemma. The size has stressed the importance of providing for the first time a comprehensive national transport plan for the next year. Substantial work is now being done in the departments and in all counties in order to coordinate treatment and carry out the necessary priorities. Then, in the same interview with the Sunnmørspost, the Minister of Transport says that those who ‘want a rapid realization of a transport project, other than the normal plans, must use tolls’. What does that mean? Does this mean that the Government puts up one process where the county councils carefully prioritize and coordinate, and another process that, in order to use the Council’s own words, goes ‘without the ordinary plans’? For further treatment, it is essential for the Storting to know how the Government will ensure coordination and priority, otherwise we may soon experience either that the treatment of the various toll projects becomes a parody because they are not given content, or that the treatment of the transport plan becomes a parody because essential parts of the planning framework are distributed outside the planning process. One year before the processing of the transport plan, we see the following picture: The planning frameworks now underpinned by the work on the plan for the next period are clearly lower than the frameworks of the Roadmap of the Jagland government that the centre parties so strongly criticised. The Prime Minister seems to have made it clear that the government's budget during this major period will provide lower road investment than the Jagland Roadmap. This means that the Government commits to postponing projects that are in the road map. It means a bond into the next scheduled period. The level of investment leads to rational progress. The State has arrears in relation to its obligations under toll agreements. These were important reasons why the Workers' Party proposed an increase in the investment framework for 1999. The slowdown in relation to the government party's own promises is particularly great. The road map has a time horizon of ten years. This gives clear guidance for the device and the concrete details of the plan for the next four years. The government has announced that it will provide various packages of large sizes. The government has created expectations of meeting local toll initiatives of even greater scale. There is now a comprehensive treatment of the transport plan around the counties, which, of course, creates expectations that local priorities will be implemented. In short, the government is about to get into an expectation bubble. At the same time, the Storting must know how the Government will coordinate its transport policy, so that the Government has a clear line to which the Storting can relate. Then it becomes vital for Stortinget to know: If the Government intends to continue today's investment level, does that mean that the current road map cannot be implemented? Is that the government's opinion? And if so, how will the Government present to the Storting the repriorities in relation to the plan? How will the Government follow up its own initiative on ‘care and effort’? What does the Government consider that ‘those who wish to quickly realise a transport project, other than the normal plans, must use tolls’? Should not the State’s share of toll projects be given priority over other projects, such as before? And, not least, how will the Government coordinate the follow-up to ongoing issues in relation to the treatment of the national transport plan? How will it ensure a serious and comprehensive treatment of the national transport plan that we are all eagerly awaiting?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e892	In this interview, the representative Schjött-Pedersen is concerned that there will be a serious treatment of the national transport plan and that this plan will provide an overall assessment and prioritisation of the transport investment in the years to come. Let me start by saying that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen and I share views on the national transport plan. Through this plan, the government wants to provide a basis for assessing measures for all modes of transport as a whole. The government sees such coordination and coordination between the various sectors as an important prerequisite for obtaining a good basis for decision-making on the key decisions of the transport policy in the years to come. In order to contribute to this, the time horizon has also been extended from four to ten years. In this context, it is important that the priorities between large and resource-intensive projects be broadly addressed in relation to the national transport plan. There will be an opportunity to assess different actions against each other, against other key actions in the same sector and against important actions in the other transport sectors. This will, of course, also apply to large toll projects on the road network, and it is obvious that the national transport plan will be the natural framework for policy-making also in the case of toll projects. In this context, I stress that it is an important common task for government and growth to get away from the situation we have had on the road budget in recent years, with little rational progress of many installations. Urative progress has high costs, both in the form of delayed opening of road projects and in the form of increased development costs. There are several reasons why we have come into this situation. However, one main reason is that at the end of the previous ageing period very many new road installations were set in motion. These decisions were taken in advance of Norwegian road and road traffic plans 1998–2007. It has become an important lesson for all of us. I will therefore take great care to promote new, large-scale projects in the run-up to the national transport plan when they contribute to major commitments in relation to the formulation of transport policy in the years to come. This will provide the Storting with good opportunities for future disposal, and is also in line with the Government’s wish that, through the work now being done — both locally and regionally — it will be well-placed to enable the Storing to make real priorities in the transport sector. For example. Oslopackak 2, this work is given high priority, and I intend to follow-up the Storting decision on forced collective development. However, I would like to remind you that the package is of the size of the Gardermo extension, including the accommodation system. Such a magnitude suggests that we provide a particularly good professional basis before the matter is brought before Stortinget. I hope to be able to present parts of Oslopackak 2 in the late summer/harvest, and it is also natural that the matter be coordinated in relation to the national transport plan. However, I would also like to stress that the Government is in favour of and attaches great importance to the implementation of new toll projects. There still appear to be many projects in question that are both necessary and sensible. As you know, the Stortinget takes final decisions in toll cases, and this government has received approval from the Stortinget for all the toll projects submitted. Furthermore, I would like to point out that when the Government encourages local authorities to pull together with government authorities, it is because alternative funding, in addition to government funding, will provide more road investment. Yes, we not only get more and better roads, we also get a local focus and a local initiative in transport policy. It is not only State authorities that can or should pursue road policy, and for this government it is important to stimulate innovation, creativity and local involvement in transport policy as well. Local involvement means that local responsibility is taken if something is to be realised, and in many cases there is evidence in an application to contribute tolls. With regard to new projects and initiatives for these, I would like to remind you that it is not just the government that has been interested in this. Forced collective development in Oslo and Akershus – the so-called Oslopackak 2 – is an example of a project that Stortinget has asked to be evaluated, without the then government proposing it. Extension to the four-field motorway in North Westfold was also clearly wanted by Stortinget, just to mention a few fresh cases. I am aware that a number of transport investment plans are being worked on locally. The local discussion of opportunities for self-contribution, I see it as a positive sign. This does not mean, however, that all toll projects are realised. An application for toll financing shall be dealt with both at the road office, in the Road Directorate and in my department before any proposal is made to the Stortinget. I have noticed that there are often great expectations regarding the central treatment of toll projects. One too fast treatment can go beyond the quality of work, and I think we'll all be well served that this is done properly. If the Government finds that it is appropriate to implement the project, it is proposed for the Storting, which may carry out the final approval. This division of labour seems to me to be good and shows that the Stortinget has good political control over the future leadership of road policy in the road budget. Let me also tell you that there are currently about 40 toll projects that are either in operation or that have been decided upon, and as shown in the state budget for this year, it is expected that approximately 1 900 million. kr will be put at the disposal of the toll companies, either for extension or for repayment of loans in 1999. Most on-going projects are subject to a shorter amortisation period than originally foreseen. In comparison, national road investments above the State budget amount to DKK 4 billion. Toll revenue has thus become an important part of Norwegian road policy, and the funds collected now account for about 50 pst. of state pesticides. I would also like to point out, in this context, an opinion that appears to be widespread, namely that the State should contribute exceptional funds in addition to the ordinary road appropriations. As you know, there is a given framework for state road appropriations in the State budget, which many of us transport politicians, in isolation, would have wanted us to do more. I'm going to encourage local authorities to show accuracy in estimating the state contribution. To conclude, the government’s view has always been to stimulate local contributions as an addition to government appropriations. A local desire to contribute tolls gives more money to roads, and allows local responsibility to be taken. This is my line and the government line, and I believe that a balanced mix of state resources and tolls will continue to benefit road policy here in the country. The main lines of policy also in this important area are proposed by the Government to present to the Grand Duchy precisely in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e928	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Among other things, I have I was interested to note the fact that the Council of State identified the issue that resulted from many projects being launched at the end of the previous ageing period. I record that the current representative of the Grand Duchy of Fjærvoll was involved in the majority who largely pushed forward a width of the projects, and takes it as a recognition that the Council of State is now taking the experience from it. I am pleased that the Council of State emphasises so strongly that the priorities of the projects are essentially to take place in the national transport plan. I think it is important to stress that we all need to ensure that the national transport plan becomes the central area of priority and coordination in the transport sector, as foreseen. I also note that the Council of State emphasises that the state's contribution to toll projects must be seen in the context of the ordinary road appropriations, and of course within the priorities that apply to the states and regions in question. Then there is reason to ask again what the Council of State means by its opinion to the Sunnmørspost that ‘those who wish to quickly realise a transport project, other than the normal plans, must use tolls’. That leads to the idea of having the possibility of that council itself called an extraordinary funding, which, of course, is not present. The Council of State did not have in mind the expectation that this government had created by inspiring a view that more road projects could be solved through so-called ‘pleasure and hard work’. How will the Council of State meet the expectations of those who have taken the initiative of some 70 different projects which he now supports, and whose expectation is that the initiative will be met by a government that has invited to this task? Will the Council of State continue to believe that it is possible to contribute government funding to such a large number of projects, or will the Council of State already assess whether the response to the initiative may have been slightly greater than what the Government is able to deliver? I will also be allowed to show that, in the same interview in the Sunnmørspost, the Council of State refers to statements by the Prime Minister, which indicate that the level of current investment will be continued and that an overall allocation will be made for road investments in this period that is lower than foreseen in the Roadmap. Is that the government's opinion? In that case, how will the Government deal with the Storting by postponing projects in the road map, and how will the Government deal with the Storing also with the re-priorities that may have to follow it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e943	Let me first say that in the case of concrete budgetary assessments and figures, we must come back to this in the ordinary budgetary procedures, possibly in a revised budgetary context. Now and then, in the context of newspaper headlines, one should try to read between the lines, especially when one finds that for a certain period of time large headlines in the newspaper gave the impression of being built on interviews with the Minister of Transport, which was not the case that one understood, if one read the articles further. In the case of the quoted article from the Sunnmørspost, it might also be possible to read a little bit between the lines. For when a State Council receives the following question: Has the Prime Minister promised a Minister for Transport from the districts an increased framework? And the new Minister of Transport says that he has neither promised increased frames nor reduced frames, so you choose what you want to write. In the case of projects, all projects need to be assessed individually. I have sometimes said in jokes that I have had great sympathy for and enjoyed Christmas. I have had sympathy for him and the packages he has brought with him. But then comes a period when you're going to unpack the packages and see what's inside them, and I'm in that phase now. I unpack some packages, see what is inside the packages, what is required of – as I mentioned earlier today – state funds. It is probably part of those who are built on the rift and the dugnad opinion in the sense that they have locally believed that here was the dominant state to contribute, and then from the local level you should contribute minimally. It's a misunderstanding. Spleid and hard work, good spirit and toll means that you choose a form of funding that gives the road budgets total increased funds and enables us to carry out more tasks than we would otherwise be able to do. This means that some projects need to be looked at. We've been so far into the Oslo package tonight. It's a resource-intensive expansion. It is important to remember that Oslopacket 1, i.e., the main extension, is to be completed in addition to this plan. I have asked my people how much will be left of need when the period for Oslopackak 1 is out. For the time being, I have been told that it is approx. 5 billion in need. That means I have to put it in the bottom and include it in the planning when I go on with Oslopack 2 and the other packages. There are also previous decisions in the Stortinget to extend the Ringerix Railway and Tunnel through the Old Town. There are also plans for road development in Bjørvika. In total, this leads to a major need for coordination and professional and political action. That is what the Minister for Transport needs to signal in this debate too.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e956	Everyone should at least agree that well-developed well-standardised networks of commerce are a prerequisite not only for housing and good living conditions, but also for a well-functioning business in all parts of our country. The transport and communication sectors are characterised by rapid technological and market changes. This will, of course, require substantial requirements for both conversion and efficient resource use in the transport sector. It is a very timely question raised by the interpellant Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen. We must never lose sight of the need for comprehensive transport planning and better coordination between the various modes of transport. That is why we must also strive for a comprehensive and comprehensive plan for road and road traffic, aviation, rail and ports. The large number of road projects requiring toll financing will, of course, strongly intervene in the development of comprehensive solutions, which also need to focus on distributional effects between different parts of the country. It is therefore necessary to establish clear assumptions for user financing, i.e. tolling, of road projects. These must be balanced and prioritised in relation to other transport projects. This should normally be done in the context of the examination of the national transport plan, but there are projects, mentioned by the interpellant, on which the Council of State has so far been involved, which cannot wait until the Storting has dealt with the announced transport plan. This concerns Oslopackak 2, the Eastfold package, the North-Jear transport plan and the extension of the bombing in Bergen – all very important projects that we need to find a solution as quickly as possible. What I want to use my measured minutes to do is as much of a commitment as I can, to ask the Council of State to help bring forward the proposition on the Eastfold package, which the Council of State did not mention at all in its article, to the Stortinget as quickly as possible. The planning process carried out so far in Eastfold, under the direction of the State Road Administration in Eastfold, has gained broad support in the county, and now at the latest in the county. This means that the E6 through Østfold will be extended to the four-field motorway, that E18 through Østfold will be expanded as a two-field motorway and that the extension will be completed in 2007. These two main ports for Norway towards Europe today have 80 pst. of land-based freight transport. We have a most unacceptable accident situation on these two tribal roads, where over 10,000 people are either killed or injured in the period from 1980 until today. Toll financing is therefore urgently needed for the development of E6 and E18, as is widely endorsed by local authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e969	Bombways are extra taxes. It is frightening that the Council of State, Færvoll, sees for itself future roads built for tolls. It's scary when we know that the government's taking in nearly 40,000 million. NOK for car and car use per car years, while just a little over 9500 million. kr comes back in the form of better roads and road safety measures. For the difference between what is paid and what is returned, all roadblocks in Norway could have been removed and, in addition, necessary road maintenance and new roads could have been financed. It is therefore immoral and reprehensible that drivers are subject to an extra tax in the form of bombing routes. The party of progress has always opposed the construction of bomb roads and has claimed that where a bomb road is being built, there shall be reversion possibilities. It turns out that half of the revenue of many bombers disappears in the administration and is money that doesn't give any more way. This is something that must also be remembered when planning new bomb projects. It is frightening that the tolerance limit of the drivers is so high after they have been a dairy cow for the state for years. I miss more involvement with the car organizations, which have been very passive when more burdens are imposed on the drivers. I will be very surprised if the bombings are removed as provided when the collection periods are over. There are already forces in place in other batches to call the bombings for environmental bombs after the roads have been completed. This means that drivers who have to pass the bommer morning and evening have to pay extra. It is worrying that soon you cannot switch to third gear until you meet the next roadblock. It is also worrying that all of these bombing projects are tying up the country’s and state’s ability to prioritise new projects within the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e982	The interpellant addresses an important theme. We are all concerned that next year we will have an overall, coherent and real review of the whole of transport planning and the transport strategy for the future. The national transport plan shall be an overall governance document, the management of which shall provide the basis for strategies and planning in the years to come for all modes of transport combined. Therefore, it is important that the matters we deal with in Stortinget in advance of the transport plan do not put too large a lead and commit too much money in advance. The next issue we are going to deal with today, the Nord-Jären package, is a good example of how this can be done. We agree that you can start collecting tolls and the main features of the local plans. At the same time, however, the Committee assumes that one must return to the scope of the development plans and the individual parts of the package in relation to the treatment of the national transport plan. We also assume that the elements of the package will be financed within the Rogaland framework of the treatment of the national transport plan and that railway development will be financed within the overall investment framework of the NTP. However, the fact that we are going to deal with the national transport plan in one year does not mean that the Transport Committee will be able to calm down for a whole year. It would probably create a somewhat difficult situation about absolutely all the issues that treatment was ready to submit to the Stortinget, would be postponed to the next spring pending the NTP. There were also a number of minor issues in the context of the revised national budget yesterday, to which the Committee will hopefully agree in spring. This session and the autumn may also be followed by matters which may be dealt with by the Committee during the harvest session. The interpellation also points to another important issue: do we have enough State resources to meet the state commitments of all the projects planned? If the projects are to be as comprehensive as a local request, if the State share is to be as large as local authorities assume, and if all the projects are to be started locally, the answer is simple: No, we do not have enough money for the state share of all the projects. But no one has said that everyone should get everything they want. ‘Slice and hard work’ is about how one can get more out of limited means, about how one can get a limited sum to stretch to a little longer, not about how one by making an effort itself can secure more resources. I can't promise more money to any of those who make up tolls. But I can promise that the more people who take a larger part of the costs themselves, the more we can do with the limited pot we have at our disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e997	This interpellation could have been predicted in many ways already a year ago. It is not new that there has been a significant gap between the toll projects agreed by the State and the resources it is willing to provide. I think we've got this for a long time. Already with this year's budget, it is obvious that a large number of toll companies have to go to the bank and borrow money to the state in order to have a sensible progress in the projects. My prediction is that the 2000 budget will further strengthen this issue. There's still to be seen, but I think I'm being told the truth in that way. The background is that when toll projects are still agreed by the State, there is always a part to be paid by the State. There are no toll projects in Norway that are 100 pst. funded by users. Perhaps we will have it in the future. The result is, as I said, they have to borrow money. The Council of State also said in its statement that several projects were adopted in the previous period of the Grand Duchy, and that this is one of the reasons why one is up in the situation in which one is. No, that's not true! The realism behind the draft budget of the majority in spring 1997 for the long-term part relating to the road map was simply that a number of agreements had been concluded which meant that the State had commitments that made the framework presented by the Workers' Party too low. Then you can discuss the size of that package in total. That's all right. But the point is that as soon as the central parties got government power, they would have forgotten that package. And then that situation the government has now come up in, in many ways self-inflicted. They themselves have made sure that they have come up in a situation where toll companies in Norway have to borrow money, and that situation was quite clear in the spring of 1997. Then we knew what situation we were facing, we knew we had ties to this. In that perspective, it becomes a bit special when central government councils travel around the country and ask for a new ‘pleasure and effort’, because there is also a government share, which only reinforces and increases the gap between the resources we need and the state’s willingness to enter. The truth is, at some point, you're going to get up here in a totally unsustainable situation. We're actually up there, by picking up tunnels again in this country, stopping roads in the middle of the forest, and missing 850 million. kr for the rational development of the projects. The crisis is already there, and it can only be solved by being willing to spend some more money on the transport sector and fulfill the promises you had. The point is, from the Right's point of view, that we've done that, but the center parties haven't done that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1010	Toll projects have not been an unusual way of financing road development. My impression is that toll solutions have our accepted solutions, and I believe that the toll project will also be an option in the future to solve some of the problems that we have there. We still have important, unresolved tasks in the road sector – yes, we can say that they are almost in line. For business as well as for busses, communication, perhaps primarily, is one of the most important factors that must be in place for us to continue to operate in parts of the country. Of course, there are limits to how many projects can be solved as a toll project. State funding must be provided for its part of the project costs and the burden on users must be kept within acceptable limits. I am aware that there is a lot of planned toll projects in the county. However, planning is not the same as managing everything in the Storting before the work on national transport plans has ended. The interpellation refers to the World Times of 12 February 1999 and the listing of so-called planned toll projects, but both the interpellant and the rest of us know that such production cannot be perceived as cork accurate, correct or good evidence for future transport policy. I agree with Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen when he says in the interview that a thorough work is now being done on the national transport plan in the state and the state. This thorough and good work is evidenced by the fact that the Storting also takes into account and emphasises the work done in the counties and the etats. I think, therefore, that most of the major projects currently being planned have to be treated in parallel with or as part of a national transport plan. One cannot ignore the fact that some toll projects can be handled in advance, but for me it is important that these projects also have to be seen in conjunction with the forthcoming transport plan. That applies to the priority of the individual projects, and it also applies to the piece that is part of the government's funding. The borders on which the state should enter will not be larger if one is going to use the funds for a toll project than if one is going to use them for purely state-owned projects.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1031	The representative, Mr Schaug, said that his colleague, Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen, had asked a «reasonable question». That's to the extent of a timely question. I have problems understanding the constellation between the parties in this case. There's a debate going on between the parties that have been involved in making all of the bonds that we're now struggling with. It's this big crowd that's made all of the bonds, and it's pretty much only SV who's had the courage to say, "No, we can't do all of this building." Some projects are costly and do not have this effect that we want – they have a price that makes it cost more than it tastes. So we have to be able to say no. If we had got our will, we would have gone into this period of a lot less bonds than what we did. Now it is said that the Workers' Party would have a lower standard at E18 in Eastfold, and they were made to vote down Hardangerbrua, but that is largely what they can lead to in terms of reducing bonds. Otherwise they've been involved in everything that's made of bonds. And the center parties said no to the Oslo Earth Tunnel and a little bit more, but there's not much, so they've been on the bonds. In the case of the Right Party and the Advance Party, there are no limits to what they have from money to roads. The way they finance it, by cutting in other important areas, we're going to have another debate. But as I said, the majority in this room has been involved in the bonds. It's possible they've learned something, it'll be interesting to see. Perhaps this could lead us not to start the project, President, that you would like – the Eiksund connection – and rather to spend the money, without asking too much, on racial protection and standard raising in a state that really needs it, rather than using it for an expensive monument. In the case of tolls, I distinguish between tolls and toll projects. Tolls are really very interested in keeping and developing – whether by road pricing or by road pricing – because they are traffic-regulating. They can lead us to bet collectively, and to reverse this growth in car traffic. In the case of specific toll projects, they must be critically assessed. Some of them act as cosmonauts at the expense of other projects, because it is too easy to take projects that have a special feature. Some of them become too expensive for consumers, cf. Springland, where it costs 125 kroner by car each road. You have to be more critical of the projects you agree to. Someone's losing. When North Norway, which four years ago had 25 pst. Of the roads, now only have 13 pst., this has among other things. the relationship with the bonds. When we got the lowest of all the plans in this planning period, it was because there were so few bonds in North Norway. Other parts of the country had started so many projects that North Norway became the loser, and that's the majority in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1048	I don't think drivers pay tolls with joy. But they might do it based on the situation that you see the need to get better and safer roads. You pay for the advantage you get. The fact that so many toll projects are now emerging tells us that there is still a need for road construction around the country, i.e. for more roads. Of course, we're going to take care of people's willingness to pay through the bomb systems, but we can't just rely on the toll project, because then the bombs will probably be tight. These projects need to be in addition to 100 pst. publicly funded projects. We have a few projects that are 100 pst. financed by tolls, therefore the toll projects will involve substantial State resources. That's what's happening now when so many projects are being launched. There is therefore a great danger that these will shift those to be financed 100 p.m. by the State. The State has in many ways committed itself to the mast in respect of toll agreements concluded. What I fear is that the new toll projects will shift the projects that Stortinget has prioritised for the next six-year period, 2002-2007. Then we undermine the entire new management system with a ten-year plan horizon, where Stortinget provides clear leadership for which projects to plan and implement. There are created expectations that are not being met. I would like to touch on some premises for the toll projects: 1st@item: inlistbox Toll projects shall have local political support. The size of such projects shall not take the initiative. 2nd@item: inlistbox Projects shall be dealt with and adopted by the Storting. A public-controlled toll company shall be established. 3rd@item: inlistbox As a general rule, there must be a 50-50 distribution between state and company. Exceptionally, a lower share of tolls is accepted, as well as a lower share of the State. 4th@item: inlistbox You have to have a certain length of the collection period, for example. 15 years. In this way, more public funds will be released.5. Toll projects must be prioritised in line with other projects. We can't have two different priority lists. 6th@item: inlistbox The tolling systems must, for example: in the case of tribal routes, careful consideration shall be given. We must have a more general view of the toll financing of tribal roads. Perhaps it is time to look at the charging systems and the annual fee. This is about political will and innovation. The technology is there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1084	: The Minister of Transport was interested in Christmas packages, and he was very interested in what the contents of these Christmas packages were. I remember that a few years ago, when we had no one in the Committee on Transport, the Christian People's Party and especially the Center Party went round and served some real Christmas packages, where they promised an increase of SEK 5.3 billion in road construction. They traveled the country and the beach with that promise, and there were no limits to how valid it would be in all branches and hooks. But the promise we all remember, about SEK 5.3 billion, was unfortunately just on paper. When the matter came to Stortinget, the Christmas packages were not even delivered there. There were none of the parties that had previously submitted all the comments in the Committee on Transport, which would promote the matter in Stortinget. That was when the representative Hans J. Røsjorde ran up to the pulpit and delivered the proposal for NOK 5.3 billion. And then what happened? There was no decision in this room of 5.3 billion kroner. Then suddenly the Christian People's Party and the Centre were not so much interested in the Christmas packages anymore, and they voted against the proposal. It was the famous SEK 5.3 billion that you traveled the country and the beach around and promised. There was nothing of them. The Minister for Transport said in his speech today that he wanted local involvement. I don't want to say that it's local participation. In the past, we had little kings sitting around in different quarters, or we had robber bands that ruled over certain areas, and people had to pay money to travel through. It's probably almost the same system we have today, just in a little bit more modern form. The only way to travel through different districts is to get a straight cut off, and those areas are as dense as the old lentils and robber districts did in the past. Now the drivers are flaying, whether they're driving or not. 38 billion kroner are taken in smoothly, and now you're going to set up additional roadblocks. There are soon no limits to where to place roadblocks. When are you going to stop? The car is not an abomination in Norway, it is simply a necessity.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1097	The representative Schjött-Pedersen raises an important fundamental question in his interpellation: Has it become that those who have roadblocks also leave with the other road appropriations? If it goes more and more in such a direction, it is very serious for many counties. In East Agder there are no toll projects, but in the neighbouring states of Telemark and West Agder there are major projects. In the past, it was said that the states that did not have toll projects would be compensated for by government appropriations. Now much indicates that the road manager’s priorities do not deal with what was promised, for example. East Agder. After Rannekleiv - Temse the start of Brokelandsheia - Akeland would come. This project is out of the plan, and thus the allocation to Aust-Agder in the period 2002–2007 will be completely open – in the worst case not one penny! The second problem facing Aust-Agder is that the strain virus 7 goes from Oslo to Kristiansand. Thus, the metropolitan problem in Oslo/Akershus becomes part of the E18 problems for East Agder. In my opinion, Oslo should have its own pot in the budget, so that Bjørvika, the West Corridor and other road problems do not compete with the E18 funds. Against this background, more and more counties are now being forced to develop toll projects. I'm basically against toll financing, but seeing that East-Agder will evolve, it's necessary to deal with the wolves you're with. The accident loads in East Agder are now the highest in the country per year. the population. There were 22 traffic fatalities in 1998. Two toll projects have now been proposed – one in Setesdal, where municipalities want standard raising in order not to lose competition for tourists and to obtain the necessary security. The second toll project is E18. In Lillesand the speed is now reduced to 70 km an hour – the section Grimstad – Kristiansand is poor. A common labour market has developed in Kristiansand – Arendal; therefore, it is absolutely necessary to obtain funding for road construction. There were many who thought that the central government would keep what they promised in the long-term message, an increase of 10 billion to traffic beyond what the Jagland government promised. Now it's 10 pst. Under – it’s nice that people are disappointed!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1114	I am pleased that there has been such broad consensus in the debate that coordination and priority in the road sector and the transport sector are essentially to take place in the national transport plan. It is important to support the importance of the transport plan. There are, however, three questions I would like to ask the Council of State to clarify at the end of this debate. First of all, I would like to point out again that the Council of State was literally quoted in the Sunnmørspost as saying, "The message from me is therefore that people have to consider that we are staying at the low level we are at today. Unless the Council of State would point out that it is misguided, the central question will be: How will the Government present to the Storting the repriorities that are necessary in this case in relation to the current road map. Secondly, to the Council of State's statement that those who wish to achieve rapid implementation other than the normal plans must use tolls: can I understand the Council of State in its previous statements so that toll financing must take place within the normal framework? And when the Council of State in the same interview suggests tolls of 50 - 80 p.m., is it so to understand that it's going to be the normal toll percentage, as the Council of State sees it? And the third and in this context the last question to the Council of State: it is important that toll companies can have confidence that the agreements concluded with the State are being fulfilled by the State. Can the toll companies feel confident that during this flooding period the State will comply with the obligations arising from the agreements concluded? And in that case, how will the Council of State behave with a view to achieving this in a situation where one is so far behind the planning frameworks laid down in the road map? I consider that there has been a useful debate to clarify issues that are of great importance for the further consideration of important issues in the road sector and in the transport sector. It is certainly right, as the chairman of the Committee pointed out in his statement, that, in a situation where a budget is already under pressure, the Government has created expectations that the State will contribute to several more projects if only the local initiative is present. The greater the challenges, the government will meet the expectations it has created, with the economic framework it now seems to base. Once again, I am afraid that no lessons have been learned from the issues that arose after the promises given before the previous elections.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1131	Yes, the debate has been useful, and I have attached so much to this debate that I have given signals that, after the debate was held today, I would consider how we should proceed with both Oslopack 2 and the Eastfold package. But I wanted to hear the signals around the interpellation before the strategy was drawn further. Let me try to answer some of the concrete questions that have been asked by the interpellant. In terms of planning, should you adjust to the level of today's appropriations? My advice to the individual states will be to use this as a starting point. This does not mean that the level of appropriations cannot both be increased and changed in the course of the process, but in terms of planning, what has been signalled should be used, including in relation to the documents sent out in the handling of the national transport plan. Toll financing - to be taken within the normal limits? Initially yes, because, in my language and my assessment, extraordinary means are something that must be taken from ordinary means, or from somewhere else. In other words, when we solve projects by increasing toll financing through the toll ratio – 50-80 pst. mentioned, I don't want to go into exactly where it's going – then you solve projects that are close in line and maybe can get in line, and thus others can move forward further. You actually solve problems not only for yourself, but also for others. The toll companies that enter into a contract with the State can be safe, since, unless some shifts are made in some years, the agreements concluded will be followed up. I also assume that the Stortinget takes into account when approving the toll projects – because they are going here. So the size is going to be a part of this. Let me underline to those who have been in doubt if the Council knows what he is talking about, that I myself have been with and paid down four toll projects. The bombs are gone. We've solved the problems. Let us remember that tolls are almost the only fee left in Norway that is targeted. And as long as we have this fee, which is going to solve concrete problems that car owners, carriers and collective users see results from, I'm really encouraging you to use it. Schaug called for the Eastfold package, and said that I had not mentioned it at all in my post. It's because I've just answered this in a question time. Let me remind you of one important thing: Oslopackak 2 came to the Ministry of Transport three weeks before the state council. The Eastfold package has not yet arrived in the Ministry of Transport. Remember, the process via the Road Directorate must be included when you draw the line. And finally, there's one thing I'm not proud of from the last period, and that's that we started up a series of projects with a low start-up grant and didn't take into account follow-up appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1150	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1162	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will suggest that lines are not allowed after the individual posts, and that those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1171	I'm going to try to limit the use of time, because in the setting we're dealing with today, there's broad support for the principles of partial toll financing for projects and actions in the Northern Ireland region of Rogaland. It is only the Progress Party which, on a principle basis, opposes the proposal. The proposal is based on a revised transport plan for Nord-Jären. The plan is mentioned in St.meld. No 37 for 1996-97, Norwegian Road and Road Transport Plan 1998-2007. It is said that the possibility of exceptional funding will be explored, among others. of road projects and measures included in the North-Jear Transport Plan but to be further assessed in the context of the revision of Norwegian Road and Road Road Plan 2002-2011. These include: In view of this, it is necessary to note from the majority that no account is now taken of the individual projects and the volume of government appropriations in this context, but that the Stortinge will return to them in the context of the treatment of the national transport plan next year. For this reason, I would like to underline in the outset that this means that the action plan includes, among other things: pedigree projects must be assessed against the overall framework allocated to this pedigree route. Furthermore, national road projects will need to be prioritised within the normal framework allocated to Rogaland. Railway investments will also need to be prioritised within the overall investment framework put at the disposal of the national transport plan. An increased framework for a state cannot be foreseen, even if such overall transport plans are promoted. In any case, this must be the case now, in view of the enormous expectations this government has created through its slogan ‘dawn and fissure’. I would also like to point out that the cost estimates for the projects in the action package are based on different types of planning basis, ranging from the level of investigation to the level of the construction plan. Therefore, significant uncertainties are linked to the costs of several of these projects. So over to the intentions and prerequisites of this action plan, with road, pedestrian and cycle road investment and rail investment: North-Jearth is a region with significant growth in population and jobs. In about 20 years, the area has had a total population growth of about 20. 55 000 persons. From 1980 to 1995, car traffic has increased by 75 pst. From 1991 until now, the railway has more than tripled the number of passengers. The transport plan expects a population growth of 50,000 people up to 2020. The aim of the plan is to seek to reduce the growth of car traffic by stimulating a greater share of the transport demand to be addressed by public/bicycle traffic, further reducing environmental problems related to car traffic and reducing the number of road accidents. This is a major challenge, namely to manage to transfer the growth of passenger traffic from car to public and cycle traffic, and the like’s freight from road to rail and maritime transport. If you want to succeed in this work, I think that it is absolutely necessary that the measures for public transport, including, among other things, railway investment must be carried out in parallel with road development in order to avoid creating unfortunate travel patterns in an attempt to reduce the growth of road traffic. The majority is required, inter alia: therefore that in this context the work on new freight terminal in Ganddal must be carried out. This terminal will mean a lot for freight and passenger traffic in the area, and it will provide a more efficient railway for passenger traffic between Stavanger and Sandnes. I would also like to emphasise that it is set up to develop some key road sections that will better link the region. These road projects will provide more efficient traffic management for commercial traffic, facilitate further industrial development and, in particular, relieve existing local networks. The majority underline in the setting that the toll ratio is low in relation to the applicable toll project guidelines. The toll ratio is 35 pst, where the county comes in with a grant of 10 pst, and the state provides 55 pst. in relation to the overall financing plan. We therefore assume that there may be an increase in toll tariffs and that the recovery period is extended to 15 years. In this context, the majority also ask the Ministry to consider in more detail whether toll tariffs and the discount scheme would lead to the desired development with a distortion of traffic towards collective solutions. In the context of a strengthening of public transport, the county council in Rogaland has adopted an increase in the annual framework of operational measures for public transport during the collection period. I assume that the county council will follow up, and that the increase will be covered up within the county's normal framework. With these words, I would recommend the suspension, and that the size of this round is in line with the principle of partial toll financing for projects and actions included in the action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1205	With the adoption of proposals in St. Prp. No 14 we get a new bombing, around the North-Jear, that joins all of the already existing bombings in Norway. There is another milking of the drivers that is adopted here in Stortinget today. Many politicians and parties feel sorry and bear this burden on the drivers. But what are the same politicians doing here today? Well, everyone, with the exception of the Progress Party, is voting in favour of a new collection centre for the drivers. Today it concerns Nord-Jären, later a new bombing continues until the booms are so close that it is hopeless to get the car up in the fourth gear, as Schjøtt-Pedersen said earlier here today. Toll projects are in line, and a number of applications have already been submitted and under way for treatment here. A study has been carried out by VG and over 50 different locations in Norway are now working on the idea of a toll project. There are no limits to how much to milk the drivers? Today, the drivers pay 38 billion kroner in car charges. The appropriations for state maintenance, operation and investment in new roads are less than DKK 10 billion today, i.e. less than a third goes back. And still the parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, want to further increase the tax burden on car use. In the case of the North-Jear, some of the toll revenue will also be allocated to a number of measures that are not car-related at all. Here you have even taken routes. Yes, the ingenuity soon knows no limits on skinning the drivers. What will be the next thing you find that the drivers have to pay? In this ingenuity, almost all parties struggle to make things up. Even business has now begun to say yes to bombings around. They have already given up the small investment made by the State in road investment. When are we going to get a government that is busy designing and building roads instead of just walking around and planning new charges for the cars? Norway is a country where the car is a necessity – it is not a luxury item.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1222	North Jären is a region of strong growth. The population is growing rapidly, and unfortunately car traffic is following. It is necessary to find solutions to the ever-increasing transport demand. It's a positive, Christian People's Party, that there are two challenges. The first is to seek to reduce the growth of car traffic by stimulating a greater proportion of transport needs to be addressed by public, pedestrian and bicycle traffic. And I have to say that I also think it must be something that the Progress Party should look at, and not just say something about how terrible it is that the private drivers cannot do as they like. The second challenge is to reduce environmental problems related to car traffic and reduce the number of road accidents. I think we're all very concerned about that. I think reducing the number of road accidents is also of interest to the Progress Party. The plan shall provide guidance for the further spatial and transport planning. The main measures are therefore double tracks between Sandnes and Stavanger, public transport measures, pedestrian and cycle roads, environmental measures and road safety measures. In addition, some means of traffic management, roads and tolling stations shall also be used as planned. The majority of the Committee — and that is good — emphasises the importance of public transport measures, including: railway investments are carried out in parallel with road projects, so as not to create bad travel patterns. It is not least positive that the Committee is committed to speeding up the work of the Ganddal freight terminal, which is also of great importance for rail freight traffic. We're all concerned about that after a lot of debates, not least in the future. At the same time, the majority also give important signals. This package has a low toll ratio and it may be appropriate to extend the toll period and possibly increase the toll rates. It is important to note, however, that the Committee does not consider the individual projects and the scope of government appropriations. We have to get back to this in the national transport plan. But anyway, we're giving green light to start the bet on the North-Jear, a bet that's going to benefit both road users and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1239	Let me first get back to the matter we dealt with instead, namely the interpellation. The representative Nistad had a presentation of the vote related to the Norwegian road and road traffic plan that I was almost sure was crazy, but to check this out, I have seen in the protocol, and would like to stress the following, and I think it is right to get it: it is right that the Progress Party proposed exactly the same amount in the Storting, but the Progress Party had a completely different disposal of the SEK 5.3 billion. That was why the centre parties and the right could not vote for that proposal. So the presentation given from the pulpit here is not correct. It was not the case that these parties voted against, but they could not vote in favour of a proposal that had a completely different disposal of the funds than it meant. Just for clarifying it. So to the matter itself. I believe that the rapporteur has made an excellent account of how this case stands, and of the individual uncertainties associated with the financing and implementation of this. So my post should be short – you look at the clock as well. I just want to stress that there's a principle here -- I'm quite concerned about -- where we shouldn't start slipping. The maximum length of the tolling period shall be 15 years. It's a danger if you expand these toll projects, let's say 20 years, that you're left with eternal debt. In addition, there is also a danger of receiving eternal toll projects running and running, and it is no longer a project that is related to costs, but in many ways becomes something quite different. It has taken up the right, and we want to stress that there are 15 years that should be the principle here, and that is a prerequisite on our part. And then I wonder a little bit. In its intervention in the inter-pelling debate, the Council of State noted that there were no exceptional means related to the road sector. In fact, the right has a whole committee comment that goes exactly on it. There is no exceptional means. All must be within the overall framework of the transport budget. But then I wonder that the centre is not in that comment, when the Council of State actually said in its statement that he agreed that there is no such extraordinary means. – Just to underline it, I mean to remember that that's what the Council of State said. Besides that, I have no comments. This is a proposition of great uncertainty. There is uncertainty about the projects, about the performance, but the Right has found – because there is a local political consensus that you want to do this – that you want to support it. But I admit so honestly that the very great conviction I don't have about this toll project.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1254	The scheduled time for the evening meeting is soon to pass. The President will make suggestions that we continue beyond the regulatory time until today's maps are completed – and see it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1257	The case spokesperson did a great deal of good for the plural setting. So I will make my article very short, because I can mainly join in what the case spokesperson said. I only want to go under the job that Rogaland County has done when they have developed the North-Jear transport plan. The work done there may be a follow-up for others. It is a very good tool to get a comprehensive overview of the challenges across the transport sector in the area. Several have been faced with the main challenges that Rogaland has faced when dealing with the North-Jearen project, and it is quite clear that it is valuable for a person to transfer part of the traffic to public, pedestrian and bicycle traffic. This reduces a good deal of the problems you have in your road system. The uncertain elements of what has been presented are also leading, and therefore it is important to underline what the majority have said that one will return to the individual projects in the context of the national transport plan management. In view of the interpellation, which was the previous case on the map today, one can make an assessment when it concerns the exact toll project that we are currently running. But I think it's legitimate to deal with the things we've been doing. I focus on the work of the Rogaland County and, given that – as has been pointed out – that one should return to individual projects in connection with the national transport plan, a commitment has been made to manage the Nord-Jären package one year before the handling of the national transport plan and nevertheless ensure that this is an integral part of the transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1268	I'm a little worried. I would recommend to the Council of State to take a look at driving training in Norway. One representative after another has been in the pulpit and said that they have problems getting the car in third and fourth gear. And when it's not for road safety reasons, but because the bombs are so close, there has to be something about the ability and driving training. Possibly they should be withdrawn quite quickly. [[Laughter]] I want to say that I see that there are very good intentions in this toll financing, and that makes me have no problem joining the majority that supports it. I'll do it in a little bit. Here the majority say that efforts should be made to reduce the growth of car traffic by investing in environmentally friendly public, pedestrian and bicycle traffic. The majority say that rail investment needs to be carried out in parallel with road development in order to avoid creating unfortunate travel patterns in the attempt to reduce growth in car traffic. The majority ask the Ministry to assess in more detail whether the toll tariffs and the discount scheme will give the desired development with a distortion of traffic on collective means of transport. The majority say that they assume that the county council is following up its decision to increase the annual framework for public transport operations during the toll period, etc., etc. – a number of good intentions and objectives to strengthen the collective part of traffic. Therefore, it is with some pleasure that I say that this is a toll agreement that we will come back to when we are going to deal with the transport plan, and then the money must be included in it. But I think the intentions here are very good. Finally, I would just like to give you a little explanation. SV has also joined the freight terminal at Ganddal, which we have previously said no not because we are against the freight terminal, but because we want a different location. We see that the location is decided, and for us it is important to get that freight terminal in place to strengthen the railway. We would have liked it to be added to a port. That's not going to happen, so now we've said it's okay, it's going to be on Ganddal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1277	The President may feel that automatic transmission is better than taking away the people's certificate. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1280	For the Left, it is gratifying that the majority of the Committee provides funding for several important and necessary collective actions in a region experiencing strong growth. Over a number of years, at both local and central level, the left has been working to use tolls or various green charges to finance road construction or, as in this context, a solid investment in pedestrian and bicycle roads and public transport. For the Left, this is not only a way of financing projects, but also a way of regulating traffic. As most people know, the Left has worked to use taxes as an environmental policy tool. By charging for environmentally harmful activities, we will reduce environmental pressures. In this context, let me make it clear that if charges are to have an adequate environmental impact in the transport sector, it is important that credible alternatives to car use be made at the same time. The transport plan provides for a strong commitment to public transport and pedestrian and cycle routes. Similarly, rail bets must be carried out in parallel with road development in order to achieve the development of the travel pattern that we want. For the Left, it is important that public transport is a credible alternative to car use. At the same time, a differentiated daily fee must be added. It must be expensive in the rush and cheaper when there are fewer cars on the roads. This will be an instrument for spreading traffic beyond 24 hours and reducing the additional environmental pressures caused by drug traffic. The left considers that the North-Jear Transport Plan and this funding together can solve several of the traffic problems in the region. At the same time, it is worth noting the will of Rogaland County and several municipalities in the North-Jearth to meet the common challenges facing the region. All municipalities experience significant population growth and a corresponding increase in transport needs. They also have a large share of the common labour and housing market. It is then gratifying that they have shown together the necessary spirit to find transport solutions across municipal borders and that they have shown the courage to choose a common solution for the region. For the Left, interaction has been an important point. Our local teams on the Jären and our county in Rogaland have been working for a long time to find a regional solution. North-Jearen has a strong pressure on land and is dependent on local cohesion both in terms of transport solutions, as we have seen examples of here today, and in terms of the future development of business and housing patterns. The left has confidence that the municipality of Rogaland and the municipalities of the North-Jear will intensify the work of the district sub-plan for spatial planning and long-term urban development in the Jären, as set out in the Committee's comments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1296	I think we can express our joy at the fact that this matter has now come to our table here in Stortinget, and at the fact that it is so broad in mind that the Committee agrees with this important matter for this important area in Norway. If we look at Nord-Jären and the municipalities this includes, there are about ten municipalities, and that's about. 250,000 inhabitants in the area, and there's a lot of growth. But let me also say that there has not been full agreement locally on this matter. There have been two municipalities, Sandnes and Randaberg, who have gone against it, so I understand that the committee has actually broken the ice here, so there has not been a full local consensus, but two municipalities have opposed it. But when there is a region with such great potential and growth, we also need to look at how to get the social structure in place to work as well as possible. There's great value creation here, and we have to agree to organize the community in such a way that they can move on. We also have to see this in the light of the fact that there has been a great lack of state transfers. This region does not have tolls per toll. Today, it has the fourth largest urban area and is also the fourth largest county in Norway population with, as I said, large growth. If we look at the transfers this county gets in national terms, it's almost at the bottom, and I have to be able to say that we're not satisfied with that. However, we note that we need to take a local initiative, and it has been working for several years to get a promise, so that we can be operational. This plan provides important guidance for spatial and transport planning in the region. We all know the big area problems the region has and the conflicts that are there. So it's important now to get a transport plan in place so that we can move on with the area development. As also mentioned in the setting, a very important part of this is to stimulate greater use of collective, pedestrian and bicycle traffic. We've seen that the railway after the NSB took an initiative, and using local leadership, has had a huge increase in traffic. We are now looking forward to new vehicles being put in place, so that this can be developed further. It's important here to see the parallel leaders that are in the setting, and to which we give full support, that we should do the collective actions that are necessary on the railway side, on the bus side, etc. This has to happen parallel, so that we get the pattern that this region needs to have in the future, and that we all want. Overall, this will provide a better environmental profile and better environmental solutions within the various parts. Finally, I would like to point out that it is now being suggested that the central road projects in the region are better linked. We are looking forward to that, because this will allow us to add to better traffic management and collective solutions, as the business community has asked for, and which are imperative. If not, this ‘good’ region will stop as far as further development is concerned. We have received this setting with pleasure in the area and will start the further work as soon as possible. We are pleased that this matter was not postponed, so we can see it in context in one or two years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1309	Growth in the population, jobs and car traffic in the North-Jären region is significantly higher than the country average and will lead to greater transport needs for both business and people most in the years to come. That is what the Ministry of Transport believes, and that is what Storting's Committee on Transport believes. This recognition should lead to Rogaland County being moved up sharply to the priority list of road appropriations. For many years, Rogaland has been close to the bottom when assessing road allocations in relation to population and car density. Alternatively, it should lead to a general increase in road appropriations for the whole country, of which Rogaland County and Northern Ireland should have their rightful share. Today, DKK 9.5 billion is allocated over the state budget for road operation, road maintenance and investment, while Norwegian drivers pay DKK 38 billion in various charges. But a fairer relationship between car charges and road appropriations is not, therefore, the policy of the majority of the population. Instead, the majority will block the North-Jear with 17 toll stations that were originally supposed to be standing for 10 years, but are now supposed to be standing for 15 years, and which are probably going to be standing forever. This is the modern version of the medieval highway robbery. The booms shall be placed on all access roads, the carriageways shall be forced to stop and be charged with money in order to be allowed to continue. All should be peeled – old as young, poor as rich, even though they have already paid through the annual tax to use the roads. And in addition to the annual tax, you have an import tax on the purchase of a car that is among the world's highest, an extremely high petrol tax in a country that produces oil itself. Annual tax, import tax, petrol tax, re-registration tax and VAT – the fees are stacked on top of each other, and now the jam The Workers' Party and the Right and the other batches, with the exception of the Advance Party, come to the top with a bomb charge. The roads now to be built by means of tolls have already been paid for or paid for by the Jären population through the other charges. It cannot be reasonable to pay up to several times for the same product. Eighty million. kr is the amount that the elbows are to be forced to pay extra each year for roads that have already been paid or will be paid through the normal car charges, in addition to 10 million. kr for clean collection costs. It is certainly not surprising that the study at the Rogaland Department of the Main Organisation of Industry shows that a solid majority of member companies are opposed to the toll project despite the fact that the question showed that the money should be earmarked for the most necessary road construction. And yet Stavanger's right-wing and right-wing storage groups are in charge of new bomb charges. So what's helping the world is that Jan Petersen stands up in the VG with a penny in his hand and promises that there won't be a penny more in taxes and taxes, when he votes only half a year after this budget agreement to force the people of the Jären to pay $10 more in charge per cent. day, at least? At the very least, this will cost an additional charge of 1500 kroner. What a humbug. I will promise that the Right-wing Representatives will hear again and again and again until the elections, which we are fortunately standing before, and I hope and believe that there will not be so many voters left for them. For how can any electors rely on such a politician and such a party in the future? I'm glad we're faced with a choice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1318	The President would point out that the terms ‘cross-border robberies’ and ‘humbug’ have previously been regarded as non-parliamentary language, and still are.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1321	Around 1990 work started on the development of transport plans for the larger urban areas, called TP10. The aim was to see transport systems and land development in the context and through this attempt to find better environmental and social solutions. In this context, a transport plan was created for the North-Jear. This has formed the basis for the action plan for the North-Jear Transport System, which was dealt with locally and politically in the autumn of 1997. As many people have stressed, Northern Ireland has experienced strong growth in population and jobs in recent years. This, of course, has also led to increased transport needs. The main challenges in the field of transport are to try to reduce the growth of car traffic by making more people travel collectively, or by walking or cycling, thereby reducing the environmental problems associated with road traffic and reducing the number of road accidents. The transport plan provides a reasonable and comprehensive basis for the solution of the transport tasks. However, as shown by the proposition, and mentioned by several earlier this evening, there are also important elements on which further work needs to be done. Toll ratio of 35 pst. is low in relation to the applicable guidelines, assuming a minimum of 50 pst. As the majority of the Committee also points out, it may be appropriate to increase the tariffs and extend the recovery period. This should be fully possible when the starting point is low tariffs and a short collection period. There is considerable uncertainty about the estimates of the costs of the projects concerned. Uncertainty must be reduced before projects can be taken up for allocation. In cases where it becomes appropriate to use national roads or tolls for the financing of roads, satisfactory evidence must be provided that such re-prioritisation provides the best possible solution for transport. In this case, I believe that the regional perspective must be given decisive importance. The action plan contributes to measures that will improve accessibility, reduce business transport costs and reduce existing environmental problems caused by car traffic. The municipalities of Sola, Klepp and Stavanger and the County Municipality are positive to the plan, and contribute funds to its realisation. The opposition to the plan in Randaberg and Sandnes must be weighed against the positive attitude of the other directly affected municipalities. For me, this is a case where the regional perspective must be able to override the unwillingness of individual municipalities. I see the plan for the construction and partial toll financing of projects and actions in the North-Jear as a plan for the future. Coordination of land and transport planning and a link between road development and investment in collective services is, for me, a forward-looking way of meeting the challenges of the transport needs of our cities. I am therefore satisfied that the Storting seems to agree with this. To a few questions asked: To the representative Inge Myrvoll I would say that driving training is under assessment – with or without automatic transmission. The assessment is not specifically addressed to individual groups either in this hall or outside this hall, but is therefore a general assessment. With regard to the claims that tolls are ‘land road robbery’, I should not go into the actual description so carefully, but remind you of a significant thing, that tolls are the only charge or tax – call it what you want – as far as I know, is left in Norwegian society and that is targeted. I should not be surprised if that day someone in some department will find out that it is also going into the ordinary system, and then many of us are also losing interest in using this targeted tool. So I'm worried about everyone who characterizes this solution to today's challenges as highway robbery.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1342	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1345	It is wrong what the minister says, that this is a targeted fee. It was a targeted fee as long as it only went to the roads, but at the moment you start taking along routes, bike paths and the railway, it is no longer a targeted fee. I therefore share the concerns of the Council of State as to what this charge can develop in the future. This has been a difficult matter, not least for the Right Party. But we are so realistic in the Right that when Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim have solved their transport problems through toll financing, we also see no other way out of order in Northern Ireland than through tolls. I find that sad, because I think, like many others from here, that we pay enough through the charges taken from the car. But I have no faith that the Stavanger area or the Nord Jären area is being treated in particular. That's why we've seen that we have to go into this arrangement. Unlike the representative Nordtun, who says that he is happy that this plan is coming, I am not very happy that it comes in the way it comes, namely by a solution with tolls. I would rather see that this was arranged over the usual state resources. But as long as these other big cities solve it the way they've done, we, as I said, have to do the same thing in Rogaland. I'm also glad that we're in front of an election campaign, so we can pick up some of the arguments of the Advance Party. I think it's quite free when Jan Simonsen stands on this platform and says that they are in favour of increasing the road budget. The last time they had the chance to do so was during the budgetary procedure. In the budget they had no increase, they had a redistribution of what was. It gave something more to go, but it took off the fast route and was completely unrealistic. So I'm looking forward, I'm, to the election campaign that we're going to have with the Advance Party, to tell you a little bit of the "humbug," which is wrong to say, President -- I didn't say it, I just thought about it -- as they go around and spread about this case. So in a short time we're going to have a nice election campaign, and I'm happy to meet Jan Simonsen in debates, especially on this matter. And then finally, I have to say that what left was about here, road pricing, is nowhere in this document. In this case, it must be in the programme of the Left, but that is not what we are adopting here tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1358	On the President, it seems that the election campaign has already begun. Otherwise, some people think loud, so the president will forgive it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1363	As far as I remember, the Right and the Advance Party voted in favour of the seventh and, lastly, of the same draft state budget, together with the government parties. If there were no increases there, at least the right did not include any increases. I was clubbed down by the Honourable President for using the term "humbug" about the Right's wish for bomb charges despite the promises to go against new taxes and taxes. I'm very sorry. I am withdrawing it, and I am replacing the sentence «This is humbug» with «This is...», and then anyone can put in the word they think would be best suited. SV, for example, may insert the word ‘happy’ – ‘this is joyous’ – because it must be most pleasing for the Socialist Left now to experience that they have finally received the Right’s support for Norwegian drivers, and especially in this case the Jären drivers, no longer only have to pay for roads for which they have already paid through the annual tax, but in fact also have to pay for trips they do not go on, for bicycle paths they do not ride, for trains they do not travel with. Yes, this is not a lot of targeted charges when they also go for such purposes. But it must really please the representative of Langeland and the representative of Myrvoll and others of the Socialist Left Group to be embraced by the Right in this way, and finally have won the fight over the Right. Personally, I do not swallow the argument that since it is such that the mountains are skinned and have accepted this, the arcs are also to be skinned by bomb charges. We should fight this fee. I don't want to use the term ‘happy’, I want to use today the term ‘careful’ – it's sad that it's just the Progress Party again on the scan as the last defenders of the drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1372	I'm recording that Jan Simonsen and Jan Johnsen are looking forward to the election campaign. For me, who must travel around and experience performances with them every day in the campaign, it might be a more mixed pleasure! It is positive that the main principles of the transport plan are as broadly endorsed as they are today in Stortinget. There are important grips that are taken in an expansive area. With this, one's not in the finish line, but one's in the right direction. It is true that Rogaland can strongly argue that the county should have more funds in its hands. It's an expansive state, which needs solutions both in terms of road and rail. But it's actually now that tolls, in relation to the other urban areas and the experiences you're reaping there, are the key to getting started with the big effort that this is put up to. It is positive that there is such a broad willingness locally to start the grips that are necessary. When road pricing was mentioned by the Left, it was not directly connected to this project but as a reflection on solving the transport problems in urban areas. Jan Johnsen says it's not the Left's program we're adopting today. That's right. But what we are adopting today is closer to the Left than to the Right. Jan Simonsen's contribution to the debate today is one of the most one-dimensional things I've ever heard. He's talking about skinning the drivers and milking the drivers. He's not talking about bets on the environment. He's not talking about exploiting the space that lies on the North Jury, which can be used if you act together. He doesn't say anything about the perspectives that it opens up to getting a better railway solution. It's important for business, it's important for those who live in this area. It doesn't worry Jan Simonsen the least that his solutions wouldn't address these major challenges. Jan Simonsen says he's been looking at election day September 13th. The rest of us use more long-term thinking as a basis for what we adopt today. It serves people in Rogaland, and it serves the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1387	I understand that the Right is bringing force ointments here in today's room. Clearly, they will have a huge problem with the choice of the harvest. Then they have to really take it in here, because how are they going to be able to explain all of this trajectory to the voters? I don't think it's sad, me. I think in a way it is gratifying that the Right goes into the bosom of the Socialists. It benefits the Advancement Party, and we can only see how it works. So we're going to go to the right and say that we didn't have a heads. We had NOK 1.7 billion in the budget. And then they say that we took off the hotspot. The fast route has never received as much as NOK 1.7 billion. We took most of it from the tilt train. We have clearly stated that we will not bet on bank trains on Dovrebanen, Bergensbanen and Sørlandsbanen. We will give priority to the road. It is a priority that we in the Progress Party have made, and we stand for it. That the other parties will prioritize these tiltogens, are honest and okay, but then they get to say it and don't start talking about completely different things. And then it's the left then, talking about the railway and the environment. I have to say it again: is there no limit to how much they should skin the drivers? I just have to say it. It's nice, they can keep going, so maybe we'll get even more.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1396	The President has some doubts about the fact that 'flee' is a parliamentary expression, at least in this context. If it were an agricultural debate, perhaps the President could tolerate it!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1400	There were people talking about election fighting here instead, and I've realized that it's started. Let me first say that I'm actually not ashamed as a representative of the Right because in this room we've been in some contexts support players for tolls. The reason why I do not do this is that in many places in Norway, the project has been realised by means of Røre’s support. I actually come from a municipality that has realized its bridge because of tolls, and I don't think it's a human being on Askøy who today might think of going back to the Progress Party solution, with a ferry, that didn't go at night, and that led to long periods of bad offer – in itself a good ferry offer, but the point is that tolls have realized the project. It is also economic in this – the representative Simonsen believes it is economic. By building a road project sooner than anyone else would get, society takes out an economic gain earlier than it would otherwise have done, and it benefits business, it benefits the individual and it benefits society. Then, of course, we can all agree that the ideal thing would be if you could get money for this over the state budget, as it was said. But the point is at the seventh and the last thing you haven't had the opportunity to do. The progress party is saying steadily and constantly that we will take these 37 billion kroner that are included in charges on the cars, and use them on the way. What about hospitals, what about school, what about everything else? You run gallantly past it. It is clear that there is also something that needs to be reduced if you want to take 37 billion kroner away from the cars. We agree that the cars pay a fairly large amount, but don't forget that there are some social goods we are all concerned about should be preserved. So to the scheme itself with regard to the tolling on the iron. Yes, I said in my post that it is one of the packages to which I am somewhat skeptical, but it does not go separately on the toll section, it depends on the uncertainty associated with the actual down payment time and the entire project. However, as the rapporteur did quite well for: we will return to a lot of this when we deal with the national transport plan next year. Then we'll take those details, and then we'll make sure that these things get in place. And I can say to the left here and now: they don't get the support of the Right for their proposal on the road pricing that they're presenting here. It was very surprising. I had actually thought that you should avoid getting such suggestions, because it weakens the whole argument behind the tolls. If you get a trend towards taking advantage of this as an opportunity for road pricing in the next round, I can guarantee that it is not on the right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1411	The level of noise in this debate has been so high in time that not all messages have been reached. The representative of Merkesdal was to explain to the Left's general and principal thinking about urban charges and traffic solutions. It was not linked to this project, which is a clean toll project.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1416	Jan Simonsen has had the word twice and gets the word to a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1419	It lasts 1 minute. A few representatives here include: from the Left, and also from the Right, have been talking about the great benefits that industry derives from this kind of toll imposed on the North-Jear. I would like to remind you that the business community itself in Rogaland through the Society's Main Organisation has carried out a study of what the companies in our district think about this project. Despite the fact that the question is very clear that the intention is to speed up the development of the road network and the public transport system in parts of the county, 52 pst is equivalent. by the members of the Economic and Social Committee that they oppose this new project with bombings around the North-Jear, and only 13 pst. are trailers of this system. I ask that the representatives of the Right and the Left, who often make themselves business-friendly, take note of this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1424	Thore Aksel Nistad has spoken twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1427	We've never said that $37 billion should go to work. The right here hassles that we don't have anything for hospitals, schools, etc. The budget is SEK 9.6 billion – we increased it by DKK 1.7 billion. It's going to be exactly $11.3 billion, and it's going to be really far from the 37 billion that the Right now claims that we want to sweep into the roads. We should have done it, but we haven't done it. A ferry to Askøy? We have never said no to establish bridges to island communities. On the contrary, it's a nice thing to replace a ferry with it, so we don't have anything against it. But to create all these bombings, as the case is today, and to block the whole North-Jear with 17 beams, we don't have the sense of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1434	Oddvard Nilsen has the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1437	The progress party is trying to present itself as very principal in this matter, and as if they are opposed to a toll scheme as such. Let me then remind the People's Party that the representatives of Thore Aksel Nistad voted for a toll project. But it was home!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1445	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 322]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1458	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map. Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1466	There is a vote on the proposal by the representative of Grethe G. Fossum, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 20 April 1999. In the course of the debate, the proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal shall then read as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government initiate a broad review of today’s adoption law and its practices. The main objective must be to strengthen the ability of children to grow safely and well. Form of life and sexual identity shall not in itself prevent seeking and being considered as adoptive parents.’;» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1480	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No I, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Left/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Nordic Green/Noric Green/Noric First there is a vote on the proposal from the Party of Advancement, then on the proposal from the Party of Advancement and the Right, and then alternately between the I and the proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the setting up of a coordinating body composed of the ministries and elected representatives of the voluntary organisations. The body is set down for two years and is mandated to evaluate the relationship of the State with the volunteer organisations in St.meld. [[1996-97]] No 27 and St.meld. [[1997-98]] No 44
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1507	Proposal No. 1, from the Advancement Party and the Right, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to reconsider the rejection of the Bingo-Lotto start-up application and to grant the application a probationary period of up to two years.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1520	There will then be no alternative between the I and proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1530	Proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, says: ‘The new State grant scheme for the local teams and associations of non-governmental organisations, as well as smaller local organisations not linked to a national joint, is channelled through the counties on a proposal from the municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1558	During the debate, Mr Reikvam put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Marit Tingelstad – explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1563	On behalf of the centre parties, I would like to recommend to the representative, Mr Requam, that these proposals be turned into transmission proposals. If that is not done, I recommend the central parties to vote against, as both proposals, the intention in them, are under work in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1568	I have received great verbal support for both proposals. I will meet the desire to make proposal No. 1 turn to a transmission proposal, but I would like you to vote on proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1573	This means that proposal No. 1 converted into a transmission proposal. Grete Knudsen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1578	Then only proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox As Thorbjørn Jagland and others from the Workers' Party have said that we will propose different measures for youth, there is nothing wrong with voting in favour of the SV proposal, surprisingly not followed by the government parties who actually talked about the same thing during the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1583	So we can start voting. Proposal No. 1 has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit proposals for working environment regulations for pupils and students in autumn 1999’. The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make available funds to the school in the State budget in 2000 for stimulating content improvements in the secondary education sector.’ The Labour Party has announced its support here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1607	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of the Church, Education and Research on education policy be annexed to the minutes of the Stortinge meeting on 4 May 1999. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11-2.ana.ud480e1624	The President assumes that the Progress Party will vote against this.
