ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e31	The representatives Olav Akselsen and Annelise Höegh, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Telemark County, Kari Lise Holmberg, has taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on the leave of the representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen on Thursday, 10 June to attend a meeting of the Political Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western European Union in Paris from the representative Dagrun Eriksen on leave from 14 June to 17 June and from the representative Anne Helen Rui from 15 June to 17 June – both to attend a meeting chaired by the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Latvia On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For the West Agder County: Sigmund KroslidFor Akershus County: André KokkestadFor Vestfold County: Trond Mathisen3. Trond Mathisen is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets the representative Anne Helen Rui.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e87	André Kukkestad is present and will take the seat. The President will propose that there be a change in the weekly programme for Stortinget for today. The change is that the Stortinget meeting is scheduled for today at 0 p.m. 6:00 p.m. A statement by the Prime Minister on Kosovo will be made at that meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e103	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e114	Stortinget has for treatment St.meld. No 17 for 1998-99 on Value added and environment — opportunities in the forest sector. The Economic and Social Committee is very pleased with the presentation of its own report on Norwegian forestry policy. In terms of content, too, the Committee is well-informed and positive about the main features of forest policy in the future. Many positive forces have been involved in the work on the matter. Forest policy is very important for economic development, nature management and environmental values and for rural policy. This approach underlines the need for an active policy in this area to trigger increased value creation and take care of environmental concerns. These things are connected. In an international market, it is essential that Norwegian forest industries can refer to high environmental standards. Forestry is a very long-term industry, and good forest management is also very important for biodiversity and in climate and energy contexts. It is necessary to improve the framework conditions for forestry in order to ensure increased value creation and better use of resources, then within the principle of sustainable management. It's important that the reduced activity we've seen is turned to stronger efforts. The Committee is clear as regards the need for increased investment in forestry. There is full agreement within the Committee to build on previously adopted principles of forest management. The responsibility lies largely with forest owners and the forest industry itself, but the state must facilitate and contribute to a stronger effort. The Committee recommends building on the principle of responsibility under freedom and on the Living Forest Standards. The minority, the Right Party and the Advance Party, express in their comments that this message will provide more detailed management of the industry, thereby inhibiting activity and profitability. As a representative of the majority, I would disagree with such an assessment. The notification and suspension show a balanced policy, where the state contributes to the necessary organisation, while the industry itself has the primary responsibility for the activity. In my view, the industry has a clear interest in society contributing to this economic development. This is positive organisation and stimulation, the opposite of inhibiting the business. The long-term nature of the forest industry is an important reason why there is a deliberate overarching policy in this area. The Committee also stresses the need for a comprehensive policy, that it has an international perspective and a strong environmental anchoring. All of this must be the primary responsibility of the authorities. Also in terms of increased value creation, including forest culture, research, education and investment, the country must contribute to ensuring good and sustainable resource use. The minority, the Right Party and the Advance Party also express concern about the low level of investment, but, in my view, weakens the ability to do something about this by devalueing the importance of government contributions. The Government's value creation programme is very positive and is joined by the Committee. It is an important objective to achieve a higher level of processing, increased consumption of wood, better consistency between production/processing and the market. I want to underline the importance of exploiting opportunities and quality in different wood varieties. It's e.g. the need for the furniture industry to import wood from Sweden as much as it currently does. In particular, in order to improve resource use and value creation, the lavender impact may be increased. Vehicle regulations and forestry construction are other areas where authorities have to facilitate, where proper planning and overall consideration must be given. The general and outdoor environment and the rights of all people in particular are important considerations that the public must ensure in this context. Environmental considerations are fundamental in an industry based on renewable resources. Forests have a major impact on climate, biodiversity conservation, nature conservation and natural resources. Such considerations may be lost if decisions are too short-term based. Of course, environmental requirements impose some restrictions on the freedom of the unimpeded forestry sector. But these requirements serve the industry as a whole both in the short and long term. There is consistency between the international commitments of Norway and those of the industry. It is pointless if reduced or unclear environmental standards become a problem for Norwegian exports of forest products. It is not about more bureaucracy, but about responsible environmental policies, a more forward-looking industrial policy and better market access. The size shall also address a proposal for a new forestry law. The Committee stresses that this should be a law of economics. Overall, there is a broad consensus on the main principles of Norwegian forest policy, and the Stortinget should therefore be able to endorse the policy proposed by the Government with the Forest Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e150	Our forest resources have a lot to say in so many ways for nutrition, value creation, employment and construction in many places in the country. They also have great value for outdoor purposes and therefore for health and well-being. They also have vital value in an ecological context, not least because of the potential for CO2 capture and thus as contributors to greenhouse gas reduction. All of this obviously means that we need to focus on the best possible use of these resources, while managing them in a defensive way out of the environment. It is therefore good that we get a forest message that gives us access to such a focus. It is good that the Government has followed up the work that the Jagland government has started. When you look at the decline in activity in forestry in the last few years, and at the same time see it as having access to forest resources, it is obvious that there is a potential for economic development and value creation here that is not well exploited. Not least, this is an industry that can strengthen mainland Norway and its districts. I think that the message has taken too little on board the challenges and outlined few measures to bring up the activity in the forestry industry. As perhaps the most large-scale messages are the very picture of the situation in the forest sector, of opportunities and challenges, with a lot of focus on the environmental aspect. All is well and well, but there is something to be said when it comes to measures to reduce barriers and stimulate greater activity. What should we do to reduce transport costs, to increase skills, to improve profitability, to improve competitiveness in increasing competition, and to boost employment, forest cultivation and, more importantly, processing? The potential for increased activity and value creation is not least in the last analysis. The message might have been that the Ministry of Industry had been more involved with the Ministry of Agriculture, so that the industry could be somewhat more focused. This may leave more negative than there is to be done, but the message can be perceived as something that is understood in many ways. Now it's the way the Workers' Party interacts with the Center Party about most of the things in this setting, so if the setting hasn't done so much more tensely, we get to take our share of responsibility for it. It has been an incredibly large commitment from forest owners' organisations, agricultural organisations, nature and environmental protection interests, representatives of forest workers, entrepreneurs, trade unions and so on. during the entire message processing. It shows how important these resources are to many groups of different sizes. The groups may also want to move in different directions, but the most striking thing is that so many are united in a common understanding of the value of the forest environment, in terms of the need for sustainable management and forest management, while at the same time wanting to make better use of resources. That is why there is no reason to pull up the big inconvenience, cork in the setting or in the debate. We're going to take that as a strength. The division is mainly concerned with the extent to which the powers of government are to govern the operation of laws, regulations and administrative provisions in order to achieve the objectives and the extent to which freedom is to be exercised under responsibility. Therefore, the focus has also been on the submission of environmental regulations. The environmental requirements for forestry have been greater. I'm sure that's right. There shouldn't be a four on it. The market also requires it, and the market must have confidence or evidence that forest products come from sustainable forestry. This knows forestry, and it is therefore necessary to seek to comply with these requirements through certification of the forestry business with environmental standards that are professionally accepted and trustworthy in the market. The cooperation project Live Forest is precisely aimed at setting standards and creating confidence that the Norwegian forest will be managed and exploited in an environmentally sound way. It is good to see how this voluntary work has been motivating and has produced results. It must then be right to give the line based on volunteering possibilities in the future. There is no need to be perceived as a weakening of environmental requirements. We say in the setting that they should be reviewed after two years. In contrast to what I believe, if the line based on volunteering does not reach, then any regulations will be put in place. The working party supports the need for a revision of forest law, and then a review of environmental regulations should be carried out. When it comes to market requirements, I would also point out that producers claimed in committee hearings that the market had much more confidence in evidence based on voluntary schemes than on environmental regulations. Forestry and the forest industry face major challenges in the future. The message also says that the investments are too low and that the quality of the forest culture work does not meet the objectives. Both in the context of the environment and in order to build up resources for future generations, forestry investment should be increased. It requires a positive agent. In order to motivate forest owners to invest in forest culture and to actively initiate quality promotion measures, a relatively high and stable level of deposition is necessary. We think it might be worth looking at whether or not the profit should also apply to opt-outs, which are property in the forest strips in the Austland counties and East Agder, which have a balance quantity of more than 33,000 m3 to benefit in the municipality concerned according to the forestry plan. It is desirable and should be possible to increase the efficiency of the forest. But it is not possible politically to adopt any quantum for it. It is determined by the market and the cost. It will be important to market and stimulate wood for more use both nationally and internationally. Both at the Gardermoen and in the OL halls that were built, we are presented with Norwegian limthreconstructions that show the wood’s enormous use capacity and competitiveness in relation to other materials. Biofuel use is environmentally friendly energy use, and there is a high market potential for it, but it is too low to be profitable. Many hearing bodies presented transport costs as one of the main reasons why Norwegian forestry and industry are not competitive enough. The industry should, as far as it can be, have the same framework as the countries with which we are going to compete. An assessment of whether driving regulations should not be amended in line with what Sweden has neighbouring countries have to come up with on the agenda. This is, of course, a matter of road standards and willingness to give priority to transport. However, I believe that sooner or later we will not avoid allowing 24 metres in length and increasing the total weight to 60 tonnes for the transport of timber. At least this would reduce domestic transport costs for forest industries to a monthly level. At the same time, rail is seen not to be more competitive when it comes to timber transport. Of course, when it comes to flexibility and transport over short distances, the truck is unique, but with good loading and unloading equipment, the railway should be competitive over long distances. There is still a need to build forest car roads. The tiling must then be bound up by the actual extracting of the blanks. It is also important that there is a flexibility in the social welfare system, so that there is no large, wide road where it could be done less. Forest roads also don't have to go outdoors, it will actually in some conditions increase access for those who want it. Generally the right to free movement and outdoor life is otherwise a right that we have to fence around. The increased exploitation of land must not go beyond that. Coniferous protection and the conservation of key biotopes are important. Of course, we have to contribute to the care of the biological deficiency. Nevertheless, it is such that one must limit this protection work. When it is still referred to that Sweden and others have a much higher percentage of protection, it is considered irrelevant. It has to be how much and how much we protect. We have large forest areas that it's not profitable to unload. These so-called zero areas increase, and they should also be registered and counted in the area that we have for protection. I have learned that we support the revision of forest law, at the same time as we in the setting point out that a new forestry law must become a business law under the principle of freedom under responsibility. We also support the obligation to set off a forest tax, that it is maintained. It will be decisive for the financing of sustainable forestry in the future. At the same time, we signal that the tax advantage of using a forest tax must be increased. This is to stimulate increased investment in the forest. The government will consider measures to facilitate registration as self-employed in forestry. We're thinking about this. We have argued that the legal protection of employees is guaranteed, and that nothing will be done to increase the potential of contractors. Such an opening to which it is added may intensify the pressure to register as self-employed. It is important to provide tools to ensure safe and stable all-year work places for the added forest workers. Falling timber prices and disposal problems have seen us in a situation where we have to think again. We are forced to find alternative uses of the raw material, partly by processing the raw material to a higher degree, which gives more value creation in each unit. This is what we in Skog-Noreg, in order to use that expression, have to regroup. That's why it's good that a value creation program is started, and I suggested that we come up with something concrete. I would have liked to see that program a little more concrete. Here it becomes important to focus on the whole value chain, not least when it relates to the processing bit, in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e205	The message we are discussing today describes a situation in forestry that is characterised by lower activity and reduced profitability over the last ten years. Falling raw material prices and several restrictions imposed on the industry create some problems. The real price of timber has almost halved since the 1950s and is expected to fall further. So the challenges lie ahead to increase the profitability of Norwegian forestry. It is then necessary to provide operators with the right answers to the challenges they face, so that it can be attractive to continue operations in a market characterised by sharp competition. The Progress Party is therefore sceptical about signals of a change in forest policy where the principle of freedom under responsibility can be replaced by public governance and detailed regulation. Increased public governance will clearly hamper activity, value creation and profitability in the forest sector, as we see it. In a situation where it is desirable to stimulate increased activity, new impositions and regulation will have the opposite effect. Therefore, we believe it is necessary to clarify that the principle of freedom under responsibility remains fundamental to Norwegian forestry policy. The Party considers that it is not appropriate to set specific targets for forest policy yields, because it is the market that must be crucial for harvesting. A forest production managed by the authorities to cover specific quantities is not appropriate because industry must also at all times comply with the raw materials available in a market. Here, considerable variations have been observed over time. The potential for significant inputs from the countries with which Norway has to compete does not provide a prospect of stability and much less of an outlook for underbalance in the timber market. Therefore, there is a high degree of uncertainty about the potential for profitable forest production in difficult-to-use terrain, low-bonding and growth conditions. In the case of potential increased inputs and potential wide variations in the market that cannot be controlled by Norwegian forest policy, it will be risky to use, where appropriate, significant societal resources to increase forest production in the long term. Whatever the objective, forest production areas are relatively limited in Norway, because they are limited by natural resources, bonities and climatic conditions for growth. Low-bonite areas, low-growth areas and zero-growth zones are large. It is therefore appropriate to provide for the most rational use of good cropland for forest production. It will provide a good basis for stability and market adaptation. The Progress Party considers that there is a need to mitigate the use of public governance, regulation and grant activities. This can result in an unnatural distortion of production, which first results in the long term. In cases where there is a significant risk of misinvestment, there are good arguments for reducing government-based grants. Any investment should primarily derive from market withdrawals according to the forest owner’s own operational plans using any dedicated investment and forest levy. Government grants must be weighted against total income, as we see it. The Progress Party sees forest owners as the best driver in economic development. If they are to succeed in a tough competitive situation, the authorities must ensure that no obstacles are put in the way of rational operating practices or priority is given to conservation provisions in areas where forest production can be rationally managed. Motivated owners must also feel secure through a strong private property right. Only a forest farmer who feels property security will invest too fully in this our most long-term industry. A prerequisite for developing optimal commercial activity is a deregulation of the property market that can provide greater flexibility and the possibility of building viable properties. We are therefore very sceptical about new regulations and restrictions that can gradually help to erode ownership. This will be a hindrance to the development of a robust and profitable forest and land use industry. For individual forest owners, it is important to know the total resources and opportunities of the property in order to achieve optimal nutritional development. It is the development of the total areas and products that give the sum of the value added. This may include the use of land resources, for example: for hunting and fishing, contribute to improving value creation, so that profitability reaches an acceptable overall level. The Progress Party considers that there is a need for an overall review of the laws and regulations that affect the possibility of developing profitable off-road industries in Norway. An outlanding product can be composed of transport, accommodation, catering, natural experiences, hunting, fishing, guidance and much, much more that can make a valuable contribution to ensuring the settlement in the districts. However, conditions must then be provided for the rational exploitation of the land resources and for the value creation of the land industry. In particular, I would like to mention the obstacles to the planning and building law can mean the construction of cabins for accommodation and serving. The construction of forest housing is necessary to increase the degree of processing of the off-road products. It may also be necessary to assess the effects of different forms of protection on the off-road industry. It is also important that the market be allowed to function in relation to the pricing of the off-road products. Private forest owners are currently subject to VAT on land products, while the country, as the largest owner of land in Norway, is exempt from this. Thus, the country’s pricing of outland products has a significant impact on the market. It should therefore be a priority task to review legislation and legislation with a view to liberalisation, simplification and non-discrimination. Thus, a valuable contribution can be made to stimulating the outreach industry as a district industry, with a potential for significant growth, as the Progress Party sees it. The political majority in Norway has long had a strong desire to make extensive use of public regulations in the agricultural and forestry sectors. For example, the Progress Party believes that the Code: in concession law and price regulation provisions, the development and value creation has been hampered. There is a high time to tackle price regulation and the concession law, so that those who want to be active economic operators are given greater flexibility to develop appropriate and viable forest properties. The liberalisation of the property market and of a freer market will lead to a raising of awareness of the resources and their real values. Forests with a high level of ambition in maintaining and developing forest resources will be rewarded with a higher market value on their properties. It is very interesting to follow developments in Sweden after the Swedish liberalised their concession law in 1991. They now have eight years of experience in the almost free market for the marketing of land and forest properties. And the experience to date shows that with a functioning market, property prices reflecting the real value of the properties are set. More robust property structures are being developed and prices and local ownership are increasing. What the Norwegian authorities have tried to achieve – without success – by resorting to strict public regulation in terms of price regulation, housing and operating obligations, pre-purchasing rights for the country, etc., the Swedes have succeeded in walking the diametrically opposite path. This could be a thought-seeker for some people in the Norwegian system. In the autumn, the Government is presenting the major communication on agricultural policy. The question of amendments to concession law will then be fully addressed. The Progress Party hopes that the Government will look to Sweden and go in for, among other things. to remove the Norwegian price regulation on agricultural properties and the State’s pre-purchase right. We can then also develop a functioning property market in our country and have the opportunity to develop a structure in the agricultural industry that is in line with developments in other industries. This will be the basic framework conditions that will stimulate activity. Enthusiast and creative people will have working conditions that allow for increased value creation in Building Norway. I would like to address the proposals from the Right and the Advance Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e233	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e236	In a few areas of business, the responsibility of the manager has a clearer meaning than in forestry. Managing under responsibility must always be central to everything related to forest management. This is an industry and at the same time a way of life that requires planning and thinking from one generation to another. What I'm planting now as a 50-year-old is going to be the earliest harvester not in the next generation, but for the one who had to manage the area of the generation then again. This fact requires that sustainable development be planned both for wood species adapted to the bonity and climate, and for forest location environmentally, both locally and globally. It has to be said that Norwegian forestry policy has a great deal to offer. The case spokesperson has done an excellent job for the work of the message committee. An area of major importance to the Government is to increase the value and exploitation of wood. The Viking ship and Gardermoen are examples of the fact that it is well possible to tighten the limits of the use of glues in tense, warm and fine structures. Three have been used in brewing at all times. However, with special treatment for roots, new possibilities are opening up for the construction of bridges with 10 tons of axle loads on national and county roads, and the bridges will go naturally and finely into the landscape. I hope that the forest industry and road traffic control forces can jointly develop this concept further. Processing and value creation on the basis of timber stocks should also be done locally, as it has always done. Mobile case use is part of this. Here, the practice can actually come to the forest, and not the other way around, with the transport benefits this gives. In relation to small-scale bets, such solutions are interesting. The government announces in this message that a five-year wooden value creation program will be launched. Based on this programme, today we should challenge architects, entrepreneurs, urban developers and urban renewal actors to include wood in the assessments on lines of steel, concrete and glass. Norway is traditionally a country with three houses. This tradition should be strengthened again. Three are fine, warm and flexible, and we have many examples that also business buildings in three and with peat roofs provide the atmosphere and pleasant working environment. My signal is that we want more of this. In time, too, BU resources will be part of the risk capital that will be available for investment in forest-related activities. Especially in relation to small scale bets, some of these funds can be used. The Norwegian furniture industry, which at least on my edges of the country has a monthly scale, has difficulties in feeding enough Norwegian raw material of the quality that is needed. This challenge must be addressed by Norwegian forestry and ensure that it is achieved in the long term, including: pinewood of such quality that it can be claimed that Norwegian furniture which is internationally popular is not only ‘Made in Norway’, but also made by Norwegian timber. Transport is very central to forestry. The construction and repair of forest roads will still be needed. In the case of the rules for a timber vehicle, the Committee has been given a clear signal that there is a wish to adjust the total weight of a wagon train. This problem has to be looked at by the department. The work on environmentally friendly forestry takes on both the industry and the government. In the future, evidence of high environmental standards will be a market advantage for Norwegian forestry. The Live Forest project is an important work that needs to be continued. The Christian People's Party supports the level of ambition of the Government for environmental forestry. A regulation in this area could be introduced in a period of one to two years, so that voluntary work on living forest standards has been effective for some time. A least-possible bureaucratic system will be in line with this Government’s objective of ‘Simplifying Norway’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e264	The value chain was in focus when the forest announcement was presented, but the message was too much influenced by too many non-obligatory objectives, instead of the need for a much larger offensive effort on the industry. However, it has to be established that the notification has been clearly improved in the right direction in the Committee, for opportunities are many in the Norwegian forestry industry. Norwegian wood, Norwegian products and not least Norwegian industry appear with a solid profile, both nationally and internationally. With considerable knowledge, Norwegian actors have focused on the importance and role of forests, not least in the climate policy debate. Nor should Norwegian actors in aid policy work be associated to a much greater extent with Norwegian forest industry professionals and stakeholders in their work than is the case today. However, there is a development in Norwegian framework conditions that will determine whether we can take advantage of the opportunities in Norway. Right wants the Norwegian forest industry to become a solid future growth industry. If such growth is to take place, the industry will need to have changed framework conditions that can help reverse current developments. Despite the fact that there has never been more forest in the country than it is actually now, the activity in the forest goes down. The decline in crop yields is significant, and the yield is now down to seven million cubic metres per. years. Investments in the industry are falling, and are reduced by approx. 30 pst. during the last 10 years. In the meantime, imports into Norway are increasing significantly. The import of timber into the Norwegian wood processing industry is now around 35-40 pst. At the same time, global wood consumption has increased by around 35 pst. between 1970 and 1995. The growth of consumption continues. Looking at this background, it is regrettable that the setting does not provoke a slightly greater ambition on behalf of the industry than what it actually does. On the right, the government expected, in the light of the past ten years of developments in the country, to have become more offensive in the course of this message. Careful rotation towards a more forestry-friendly policy will, in the opinion of the Right, contribute rapidly to a significant increase in harvesting. Forestry is currently in great need of signals that can create greater optimism and not stagnation and give the industry greater freedom under responsibility that it actually needs. The right is pleased that there is a majority in favour of rejecting the Government's proposals for the introduction of environmental legislation. Such an environmental regulation is totally undesirable from the industry’s point of view and would have resulted in significant red tape and further regulation of the industry. The industry is plagued enough as is the case with a regulatory and planning regime which at least has to be allowed to increase. There is reason to stress that there is a need for more nutrient-oriented legislation in forestry than is the case today. These include: therefore, the Right will remove unnecessary barriers to activity in the Law on Planning and Building — barriers that specifically restrict the off-road industry. There is reason to recall that the cooperation project Live Forest by all teams is characterised as successful, while the industry itself has set standards that are both considered to be very satisfactory by both the environment and the market. It has even been claimed from industry that the possible introduction of an environmental regulation could be more of an obstacle to industry than a positive environmental policy contribution. Then I would like briefly to refer to the majority comments under Chapter Forest Culture, where I would like to ask the Council of State to make greater equality between the categories of property in terms of conditions and rates for subsidies to forest culture. The right is also pleased that the improvement of the forest tax system is now finally being implemented. An improvement in the forest tax system will, and will, in the opinion of the Right, increase the possibility of investing in sustainable forestry in the future, investments that are urgently needed now. Now that the Committee is unequivocally asking the Government to consider lifting the threshold of the tax advantage and increasing the tax advantage to 50 p.p., this is naturally due to two factors: firstly, that the threshold has remained at a standstill since the scheme was introduced, and secondly, that the present system does not contribute significantly to desired and future-oriented investments. Therefore, an improvement in the forest tax system, which is strongly sought by the Right, will be one of the most important contributions to assist the industry in the future. We therefore expect today to receive support from the Labour Party for our proposal and from the Progress Party on changes to the forest tax system. Unfortunately, today's concession scheme does not want to concern the majority of the population, even though the law is overly mature for revision. It is, in my view, a paradox that the political majority here in this Chamber are not willing to gloat a little across borders to, for example, Sweden and Finland to collect positive impulses from these countries' food laws, and not least from successful aspects of the forest policy of these countries. It limits to inaction when the Government of a forest notification fails to comply with the price regulation provisions of the concession law. Norwegian forestry is characterised by very many properties, mostly small and economically vulnerable units. Of about 125 000 properties, 96 000 properties are of 25 to 500 decaries. Only 1 pst. the property has an area of more than 5000 deches. Whether we like it or not, the international competitive situation suggests that the need for more rational and efficient operation is also present in Norwegian forestry. Although the Norwegian forestry industry has a high mechanisation rate, it is clearly lower than in our neighbouring countries. Today's concession law is an obstacle to development and efficiency. Right wants more rational units to be built up. Therefore, the Right considers that the State’s pre-emptive right must be removed and that the area limit for the concession obligation and for unearthed must be substantially increased. We therefore meet the agricultural message that has been advised, with great tension in this area. The focus also needs to be more on competence and professional fitness. A greater disincentive to industry will result in increased value creation in industry and in the industry extracting raw materials from industry. The right considers that a change to the concession law, where price regulation is replaced by free price formation, will contribute to greater profitability and greater yield, thus facilitating greater activity and more vibrant rural areas. Deregulation will also contribute to greater recruitment and clearly contribute to more full-time professionals in the industry. A change will make it more attractive to invest in and invest in the forestry industry, while so-called low-interest forest owners will find it more topical to sell property. There is a weakness in the message that ownership and the exercise of ownership are underfocused. In the future, the assumption of success in Norwegian forestry industries is, in the Right’s view, an active and, not least, differentiated ownership. There must be room for both small and large secondary production. This, together with a significant commitment to research and education, will make a significant contribution to the growth of the industry. Norwegian forestry and wood processing industries are hardly in the long term served by preserving the current property structure and use size, while hardly characterising it as a sign of health that very many in the industry have to fetch a substantial part of their income outside the industry. If the Norwegian forestry industry is to develop and bring about the international competitive situation, the industry must have a framework that is as good as that of its competitors. It does not have the industry in Norway today. Lack of investment in transport in Norway offers the industry relatively competitive disadvantages in terms of increased costs, while today’s rather passive Norwegian transport policy contributes to significant imports of wood. Therefore, the Right is positive in assessing the proposals made by the Road Director to increase the permitted length of combinations of vehicles and to allow heavier combinations of vehicles for transport. The Norwegian forestry industry is a typical district industry. The industry contributes significantly to the export of quality products and has a significant potential. The industry deserves more political attention. In order to ensure the development of the forestry industry, living buildings must be present to the greatest extent. Such a development wants to bet on the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e306	Interested parties have expressed great appreciation for the way in which the Communication describes the challenges and opportunities of the forest sector, and the stakeholders are many and committed. As in other policy areas, there is a desire for clearer ambitions from the authorities in sub-areas which are strongly opposed to each other, for example: the desire of forestry and industry to increase their harvesting against the requirements of the outdoor and environmental organisations to take care of the diversity of species and untouched areas. However, the reactions entered the Committee in the course of the process and now in the aftermath indicate a high level of respect for the arguments of other parties. I believe to be able to establish that there has been a great deal of convergence between those who represent traditional value creation in and out of the forest and those who represent protection and recreation interests. This development has been reflected not least through the Live Forest project, where representatives of these different groups have come to an agreement on a set of standards for sustainable forestry in Norway. This work has provided the basis for actors in forest policy to safeguard environmental interests through positive instruments while at the same time helping forest products to defend the environmental requirements that the market will subsequently impose. It is important for all interests that the work on a new forest law is now to be started. An overall committee states that the new law should be a business law in which the principle of freedom under responsibility is maintained. At the same time, the law must provide a clear framework for the environmental concerns of forestry, which are to be an important part of the individual forest owner's management responsibilities. It is also fully agreed that forestry should play a central role in housing and employment in the future, both as a resource base for value creation and as a housing quality. The five-year value creation programmes launched in the Communication could contribute to increased activity, and not least to the local and domestic processing of the wood to a greater extent than at present. The Committee has noted a significant scepticism against the Government’s proposal to introduce a public forestry environmental regulation. This scepticism is partly rooted in fear of increased red tape, which in turn may lead to a decline in the yield. But I also believe that much of the scepticism is due to the fact that those who have contributed to the cooperation project Live Forest have a strong belief that this approach will prove to be more and faster than state rules. And of course, the actors want to try this out in practice for a few years. The centre party has a great deal of understanding of these objections. Nevertheless, when we support the Government's need for a state environmental regulation alongside the standards of Living Forest, it is due to its desire to ensure a common environmental profile for the whole country's forestry. We assume that, as far as possible, time-consuming and bureaucratic reporting and application solutions are put in place. I am surprised and disappointed that the Workers' Party does not see the need for such environmental regulations, as the vast majority of environmental organisations want. Unfortunately, this position of the Workers' Party merges into the range of more defensive views of the party on environmental issues. The centre lot will underline the importance of continuing to facilitate rational and efficient forestry. This requires further development of forest roads and that the entire road network is otherwise adapted to the means of transport which provide a fair and safe transport. The forest sector should in the long term have the same framework conditions for transport as in neighbouring countries. Therefore, it is necessary to consider the need to amend the vehicle regulations both in terms of length and total weight. At the same time, such wishes must be assessed in relation to, inter alia: overall road safety requirements. As a representative of the South Trondheim team, I am particularly pleased that the Government's proposal to set up an international wooden centre in Trondheim has been supported by the entire committee. This centre shall be able to become a meeting place for competence and development, which will have an impact on the whole forestry sector. The NTNU and SINTEF environments provide a good starting point for building networks between research, development and forest industries in Norway and the rest of the world. Such networks may be important instruments for obtaining good practical results from the value creation programme on which there is broad consensus. The Committee has been concerned, as a forest industry, with the issue of recruitment and training. There are a lot of interesting and demanding jobs in this industry, and there is also training provision. But the youth has a lot to choose from. There is a need for profitability in the professions we are now talking about, but at the same time a well-adapted training offer, both for modern machine operations and for basic biological knowledge, which makes it particularly interesting to work in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e327	Forestry is an industry which is not only to deal with international competition and open markets. It also has a very special management responsibility for a natural resource to be shared and used by the whole population. In addition, a natural resource is a prerequisite for climate stability and must be managed in terms of the environment and ecology. These considerations must weigh heavily and in some areas more heavily than the market and an unregulated economy can contribute to. It involves a political responsibility to participate and offset the costs it will incur. I would like to address the three proposals that SV has made in the matter, which have been distributed. I want to focus on arguing for them. The first proposal is to support the Government in the need for an environmental regulation. The government justifies the sea with Norway’s international commitments and the confidence of the forest sector in the market. The focus on the whole production line and environmental profile requirements is strongly increasing. There is a need to make that profile visible and to reinforce it. The resistance to establishing an environmental regulation has now puzzled me a little. It may well be that at some point there might be contradictions between what comes out of the Live Forest project and such a regulation, but it would surprise me, or that there could be contradiction between an ISO certification, as many actually do, and such an environmental regulation. According to forestry interests that I have been in contact with, such a way of doing so would be able to document forestry practices. It is recognised in the international markets and should be more complete than most other industries can demonstrate. For example, the point of a prescription is: standards shall also apply to those productions which are not included in such a project or are not ISO certified. There may be a quality stamp on the entire Norwegian forestry industry, and I understand that that is what was meant to be. We find it difficult to see that it would not be in the interests of forestry as a whole to do so as soon as possible. The second proposal is for transport. Larger and heavier timber cars have been ordered on the roads. One factor that no one has mentioned so far is the cost of investing in materials. The second is increased traffic risk, increased environmental impact and increased pressure for more road construction. We want the railway to exist, it has to be used to a much greater extent. It is not everywhere, but where it exists, it must be used. Environmental transport must then be given a competitive advantage. I had a question for Odd Einar Dørum, who was Minister of Transport in December 1998, in connection with the fact that cargo operations equivalent to several thousand timber cars are being moved from track to road. Doorum then replied by first minimizing the effect of it, so confirming that there were no socio-economic analyses that could show what would actually be profitable if the environment and safety were allowed to count with, and finally there were some vague goals of getting more quantity over on the railway. In the end, he ended up with something that he called competition neutrality in relation to transport. With such relaxed principles and so little action, the environment loses. We have to give the railway the competitive advantage it needs to have in order to take off the quantities that should go on the railway. Forestry depends on large volumes and long transports, and we must ensure that as much of it as possible does not burden the road network. Otherwise, there are bottlenecks and county road network that are the problem for the timber industry, at least in my county, as I know best. So to improve resources — local local processing of local resources. Bioenergy must then be developed far more than today. It's too slow. Too little profitability, some say. Yes, we sometimes have to give the development of such segments a bigger boost in order to get started, and it hasn't been done with bioenergy. Developments are hampered by the lack of political will to provide bioenergy as well as its advantages. There have been large plans that can show how much this will contribute to jobs, and also by force. Here, there are guidelines on how to calculate costs in terms of whether it pays off, for example. to invest in more than electricity grids, or to expand waterborne heat. These guidelines are NVE and stockpiled. They are such that it will never pay to expand bioenergy, and such regulations must be cleaned up, bioenergy will have an opportunity to evolve as it can.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e346	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e350	Forestry is an important industry for the country, which finally comes up for discussion again. Unfortunately, it has been a long time since — it was in 1984-85 — we had a fundamental discussion about the development of forestry. It's an important industry, because it's been economically important for hundreds of years. It's just to look around here in Oslo and along the whole coast, then one will see that the places where the urban communities grew up were the places where the timber came down, to shipping ports. For hundreds of years, the industry has thus influenced local communities and contributed to the creation of value that we have later been able to benefit from in the welfare community. All this time industry has been internationally dependent. We can find drawings, for example. in England from the back to the 1200-1300s of construction activity on the basis of timber shipped from e.g. Laurvig, like it was that time. The international dependence that this industry is living under can well be known by the industry and has lived with it. As a result, the international economic fluctuations have also taken place in our country with regard to the export potential of this industry. This is precisely why this industry is very dependent on the general policy framework conditions that we impose on business. There's no other industry that quickly notices the problems if we don't make sure to keep track of the country's financial management. It's among those who are first affected by currency stability, one doesn't know what they pay for their products. It is strongly affected by the fact that we have a level of interest rates in Norway that is twice as high as in the rest of Europe. At all events, the general framework conditions are very strong in this industry, and I think we should have mentioned that when we are going to discuss in addition the problems that are specific to the industry. Just as far as the particular challenge this industry has is concerned, I am pleased that the government that is now sitting has followed up the Jagland government's intention to make a forest report. The important thing about the notification is that it tries to establish that there is a common dependence throughout the industry, that raw material production is safe and the price is good only when the finished products are sold to the consumer. Getting through that thinking throughout this industry, I think, is one of the main bases for further development. That is why it may have been the most disappointed in the message, not the job that the Ministry of Agriculture has done, but the job that the Ministry of Agriculture has apparently not done. For the processing strategies, export strategies, etc. I believe that this communication is far more absent in the Ministry of Agriculture than in the Ministry of Agriculture. So we've let go of an opportunity to have a proper review of the industry from a to a. However, we must continue to work on this. It is based on that in the value creation programme proposed, which I fully support, but which I think is far too little concrete, on the basis of the lack of commitment of the Ministry of Industry. Product development is a prerequisite for increasing the price of the final product, and Norway, which is not to be a low-priced country, needs to have a high level of processing if we are to have good value creation on a commodity-based industry such as the forest. It is a cross of thought when some claim that Denmark has the same value creation on forest products as we do in Norway. One can say what one wants about Denmark, but when one comes down there, at least it's not exactly the wild field that consumes against one, or the big resource resources. Then there must be something that they have through precision on the raw material side had to develop, which we, who have a lot of raw materials, have not been able to do. Of course, in the future we must have effective volume production, as we have had, and where development is going to go on, but should districts also benefit from the processing side of this industry, some niche production must also be laid out in the districts. I think that's where the future of the district processing industry lies, not in competing to cut 2"x4" faster and faster. Raw materials production is absolutely essential for us to have a basis for the processing side, and it is, as others have said, a great crossroads of thought that large parts of our furniture industry, for example. have to import pine from Finland to make pine furniture, which we believe is Norwegian when we are sitting in front of the fireplace. It probably has something to do with doing that we've been used to thinking about volume production, and to a little bit of nuance the use of raw materials, so that we can get the very highest prices on the very best parts of the commodity. We have probably been much more used to cutting the stick so that it fits the truck instead of making it suitable for furniture production. Here we are dealing with product development. If the raw material we're going to process is going to be good, we need professionals to run the raw material as well. One of the things that disappoints me in the message is that the government is actually proposing that it be easier to get rid of the workers in the woods. Although the Government well describes the need for rejuvenation and cultural work during the growing period in the forest, it proposes to make it easier to get rid of workers. It should therefore be easier to register as a self-employed person – an entrepreneur who is mainly crop-based – but then we will risk losing the expertise necessary for the full-year operation of the forest. On the contrary, we believe that forest training must be strengthened. In some parts of the country — the mechanisation rate is high and is likely to get higher — the result is that we do not have the professionals who will care for the forest from the time it is planted until it is fully mature again the next time. We need qualified professionals there, we need the forest workers, and so we don't have to reduce the employment security of those who work in the woods. The message focuses on the environmental aspects of forestry, and that is good. I am convinced that the best strategy for forestry is to meet high on the ground on environmental issues, because in its essence this is an environmentally friendly production, which for that very reason should have great benefits in competition with other productions in the future. But there have been some conflicts. There have been conflicts in forest roads, there have been conflicts in relation to, for example: open-air life and peak surfaces. However, I am convinced that when the industry is offensive and just presents the meaning as for example. growing forests have CO2 capture and opportunities for the public to use land resources, yes, then the industry can be upright and confident that it contributes to a positive environmental impact and is not an environmental problem, taking into account biotopes, landscapes, etc. as modern forestry actually does. Then someone asked why in all the world we don't want to be involved in implementing environmental regulations. No, it's simply from the point of view that we believe it's a better strategy to get active understanding and commitment to the environmentally sound forestry of the individual driver, that the Live Forest project is allowed to go further. The fact that industry's own organisations, by influencing their members, increase understanding and knowledge of how to operate environmentally correctly, seems to be worth an effort, rather than initially implementing environmental regulations. So it's not a rejection of the idea of environmentally sound forestry. That's the opposite. It's an attempt to suggest which strategy is best for us to get environmentally correct forestry. That is why we believe that the Live Forest project must be allowed to work, and then we will look at the experience from it after a few years have passed. Forestry is extremely long-term. The work done today, we see the results of at best in 60-70 years, or 100-120 years elsewhere. That's exactly why it can be difficult from one year to the second year's budget to understand that we have to invest some resources right here. But then I think we should hold on to the fact that here we have an opportunity to bet on raw materials, and to bet on an industry that is going to exist after the oil age is over. Therefore, I think the solution is that product development and competence enhancement are also introduced into this commodity-based industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e373	I'm not here today to take responsibility for what's not done, and that we're there. And that's what other people might think about. But I have a responsibility to look at what's in the message as structures ahead. The government believes it is important to exploit the opportunities available in the forest sector. The design and arrangements of forest policy are essential for this. I am therefore pleased that Stortinget's treatment of the forest report shows a broad political consensus on the main lines of forest policy. It is not often the forest sector is discussed in Stortinget. However, large values are associated with the forest in Norway. In 1997, gross production from forestry and wood-using industries was close to DKK 40 billion, and annual exports of wood products were estimated at around EUR 40 billion. NOK 15 billion. Overall, forestry and forestry are among the largest export industries in the country. With the timber and timber industries in 313 municipalities in the country, it is clear that forest resources and processing activities are very important for activity and housing in the districts. In line with the objectives set by the Government, I see Storting's treatment of the message as a support for an active forest policy with broad efforts by instruments. I'll show you here, among other things. Unable to open file %1, the Committee considers that the Government’s forestry policy objectives capture the main perspectives of the challenges facing the forest sector, end up with a strategy for increasing value creation that involves a more comprehensive forestry and forestry policy and that it considers that the Communication captures and emphasises the environmental perspectives in a satisfactory manner; I have noticed that the Committee has agreed that Norway should work to establish an international agreement on forests. The clear view of the Greatness of this will be an important point for us in the UN International Forest Forum and in the follow-up. Developments in the future, as I see it, will mean more and more links between the Norwegian forest sector and international markets. It is therefore important for the formulation of national forest policy that Norway participates in and influences international forest policy work. Nationally, forest policy challenges are particularly related to long-term resource management, exploitation of the potential for increased value creation and environmental tasks. With a view to an active and targeted forest management that takes account of future generations, I am pleased that the majority believe that forestry investment should be increased. This is a clear duty for forest owners, but at the same time it is important to continue public use. I have been somewhat surprised that the trade organisations have criticised the message because it does not provide any concrete target for the harvest. The Committee has also assessed this and agrees with the Government’s view that it is not appropriate to take policy decisions on the harvest for each year. At the same time, it is clear that there is a close link between value creation and harvesting. On the basis of the resource base, it should be possible to increase the yield in the future. The aim must be to maximise the use of Norwegian in the processing establishment. The premise is, of course, that a thing is going to be competitive in this area. Forest policy can help and facilitate competitiveness here, but forest owners must decide to harvest, based on the market opportunities available. The message has a perspective that goes beyond primary forest use. The potential for increased value creation is highest in the processing stages. This is in particular why the Government has proposed the establishment of a value creation programme for the use and processing of wood. I have noticed that the committee is very positive about this value creation programme, and that means that we can now start the process and the investigation work that is going to concreteize the value creation programme. In this context, we can also learn from other countries. Former Minister of Agriculture has, for example: to Denmark, as it is also a cross of thought that we have to draw up in this context. As regards the environmental tasks, the opinion shows that the Committee focuses on and supports the development of the positive environmental contribution of the forest sector. I think it is very positive that the Committee agrees that forestry policy must have a clear and clear environmental profile. Today, the environmental exposure is an obvious part of what we perceive as value creation in a broad sense. It is clear that such an environmental profile must also require requirements for forestry environmental adaptations. This was the basis for the Government’s conclusion that an environmental regulation would be appropriate for both bringing together and profiling the environmental aspects of forest policy, clarifying the environmental responsibility of forestry and ensuring that everyone is involved in the further development of the industry’s environmental adaptations. In the consultation round, a majority of the hearing bodies were in favour of an environmental regulation. However, several industry organisations did not want such a regulation. It has also been shown clearly in the activity up to treatment. In the light of the consultation and the industry's reaction to this, it was the Government's intention to draw up a final regulation in close contact with the industry's organisations, as we also cooperated in the project Live Forest and then made provisions that were at the level of the results of this project. However, I take note that the majority of the Committee does not want a separate regulation on environmental adaptations in forestry to be laid down now, at least not until a few years to see what results Live Forest produces. I would like to stress that this further reinforces the need for the industry to be conscious of its environmental responsibility. In the light of the Storting discussions, in the near future, I will give priority to the work on a forestry law. But I have to admit that I am disappointed that there is no will in Stortingen to go further with environmental regulations now. As stated in the vote, the Committee has agreed that the Ministry will start work on new forestry legislation. A new law will be based on the notification and the premises drawn up in the treatment of the Storting. This will be an important but also time-consuming work. In the same way as my predecessor as Minister of Agriculture, I have facilitated participation in the notification process. Similarly, I would also like to facilitate this participation when we are now going to continue working with the law. The notification alerts a review of the field of training and competence, which is also agreed by the Committee. I now propose that such a review be started in close contact with stakeholders and in cooperation with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. I see that the committee here is concerned with machine training, and among other things. the possibilities for a national forestry line scheme with special emphasis on engineering and entrepreneurship training — otherwise to a slight rethink in relation to the previous article. These are issues that, in my view, need to be assessed in a broad context and in relation to reform 94 on higher education. In the case of forest taxation, the notification adds up to continue the current system, with some adjustments to the forest tax system. In line with the Committee's comments, in consultation with the Minister of Finance, I would like to reconsider whether the tax advantage regime should be adjusted in addition to what the Government has proposed in the Communication. I see it as an important signal that the Committee here emphasises that the positive impact of the tax system on forestry should be reinforced in relation to the current system. I am also pleased that the Committee is in favour of introducing a levy on forestry to promote common measures in forestry, which will primarily go to research and development. In several of the fields I have now mentioned, processes are necessary to ensure that stakeholders are involved in the work. This applies, inter alia, to: the value creation effort, the environmental work, the legislative review and the R & D and knowledge challenges, and I therefore aim to develop processes that can address the need for contact with stakeholders. I also expect that such transparency can contribute to a further boost for a forest sector with a focus on value creation and a good environmental profile.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e419	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e422	I would like to challenge the Minister of Agriculture on a few points. Firstly, the major challenge in forestry is the decline in activity in terms of logging and turnover. Can the Minister of Agriculture at a few points draw up what it is, as he sees it, which is the main barrier to getting up that activity? What is the most important action to take in the future? The other applies to the proposals presented, from the Right and the Advance Party on one side and the SV on the other. One focuses on the transport of timber. This has also been done by the Committee in its configuration. It has specifically named the railway and asked the Government to follow up and find out what is the reason that the railway is not competitive, nor on long-distance timber transport, even if one should initially have the right to do so. We're not in the mood that you might have to look at some economic tools to get it done, including an assessment of the road tax. My question is, how could the Government intend to follow up on this in the future? The same applies to the issue of the statutes of vehicles, in order to adapt them, where appropriate, to the statutes of competing countries. Could the government think of following up? That's the case with biofuels. We're out using more timber, and biofuels are undoubtedly an area that opens up for greater use of wood on one side, and in addition it has a huge environmental gain – and in that way perhaps a social gain. Is the government willing to go in and assess any economic instruments here to stimulate biofuels to become a little more competitive in relation to other forms of energy? The third relates to the tax advantage of the forest tax scheme. The Minister of Agriculture was far from it, and said that one here would follow up with an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e433	I feel the challenge is too great to be able to answer all these questions in an answer to a reply. I think it is very important also through public instruments to contribute to increasing activity in forestry. Now I think this picture is somewhat complex. It is true that ownership in relation to agricultural property has also changed somewhat in relation to the past, by the fact that very many of those who own land and property are engaged in other jobs and other occupations. Therefore, in some situations it may be a deprioritisation of, as it is called, administrative responsibilities in relation to ownership. I think that's one of the challenges you're facing. In addition, these framework conditions, as Rudihagen mentioned, are central to a profitable operation. When it has become the case in forestry that there is someone who owns it, others who do the job and the owner is left with the profit, it is clear that much of the balance will lie in how much of the profit is left after the job is done by others. This is also a debate and a challenge facing us in forestry in the future. The concrete things that Rudihagen has addressed, I have now been put on the table through the setting of the message. The notification shall contribute in this way. The size shall report back to the Council of State, the Ministry and the Government on the importance of continuing. Of course, as Minister of Agriculture, I will pass this on to the departments responsible for each area and discuss further what opportunities we have in an overall budgetary situation to achieve the priorities or changes in legislation needed to put this in place. Of course, I take seriously what is in the Committee's comments through this discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e444	Some years ago, the Swedish government liberalised the law relating to the purchase and sale of property. We have, in most cases, little optimal property structure in Norway, and it is very interesting to follow the developments we have seen in Sweden. Now the market is allowed to function and fix property prices, and the results so far show that the real values of the properties are now reflected, and both out-of-town and passive owners have found it appropriate to sell. The Swedish have achieved the same results with a liberalisation that we in Norway have wanted to achieve with very strict restrictions in this area. We are getting a message for the autumn on agricultural policy. I hope that the government will now take a look at Sweden and the results they have achieved there. I would like to ask the Council of State, even though, of course, conditions in Sweden are not identical to those in Norway: will this communication, which will be discussed in the nutrition committee for the autumn, discuss and include the Swedish results with the liberalisation of concession law? So to this with the field industry. It is essential for the market to function when pricing off-road products. Why should private forest owners be subject to VAT on the sale of land products, while the State is exempt from this by State forest, which is the country's largest landowner? Will the Council of State here consider non-discrimination between private forest owners and the State in the pricing of outland products?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e453	The notification indicates an adjustment to the price fixing of land and forestry so that the price reflects more closely the investments made by each forest owner when the property is to be traded. This won't mean you're releasing this, as opposed to having no assessment of this in the future. But the government believes that there is a need for some adjustment to inspire investment to be made at the right time in forestry. As for what we come back with in relation to the agricultural notification, I would like to say that we will discuss this with the concession law and several aspects of it. If we want a comprehensive investigation on how this works in Sweden and on how we approach this in the notification, it is too early for me to say, but I would already be able to inform here that the notification will not terminate the price assessments in the context of concession treatment. On the other hand, things can happen if you raise the concession limit for smaller properties, which more in the Storting have expressed, and which also the Council of State believes there is reason for us to look at. This could lead to a different development for the smallest properties, which may then fall out of the scope of the specific agricultural policy. As far as VAT is concerned, I will take with me the recommendation from the representative Hedstrom to discuss in more detail with the Ministry of Finance whether there is any reason to reconsider this. The government is working on a full review of the VAT system, which we will come back to Stortinget with if not too long. The Council of State has already indicated that the notification will have a proposal to suspend State pre-emption rights in its present form.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e462	I do not know why the Minister of Agriculture is motivated by the Minister of Finance and has dragged him into this debate. It may be due to the fact that the Minister of Finance prefers to use a certain use of symbols by means of arrows – as he claims to point out, those who will point out. I think that if we move the parallel to the forestry industry, it's unfortunately too many arrows pointing in the wrong direction. The takeoff game should be turned the other way. The arrow symbolising the import of wood into Norway points in the wrong direction, and the investment arrow should be turned dramatically if the Council of State adds the broad side. Therefore, I believe that rather than being aided by the Minister of Finance on the question of the forest tax system, the Minister of Agriculture should read the majority remarks. My question to the Council of State is whether he, when he sees how the investment wave in forestry has fallen as dramatically as it has in recent years, will take note of these majority comments and ensure that consideration is given to lifting the limits on the amount of the tax advantage, or increasing those limits, and whether the Council of State is taking a rapid initiative to increase the tax advantage – that, for example, the tax sharing limit can be set at 50 p.m.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e469	I am a little surprised that there may be some criticism, in particular from representatives of the Right, that one should see economic policy, fiscal policy, in a whole. That it is coordinated through the Ministry of Finance is quite natural for me to refer to. To the question of whether I would like to take note of what is in the position on the tax regime, the answer is yes. But it's in the position that a ministry is asking to ‘estimate’ the scheme, so I don't see it as a requirement that one should arrive at a completely clear, concrete position. Of course, we're going to discuss this further both in the ministry and through the channels where these questions are addressed, so I'm going to follow up. So it's a challenge to increase the yield. This is actually a challenge for forestry. And then we have a job to do with the value creation. We need to have a market to supply to demand these products, in order to make it profitable. I think the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, gave a good idea that one really has to start in the market in order to get up a profitability that makes it interesting to cut off. Finally, with the environmental regulation. I hope – and to the extent that the Committee has also stated – that this is not a signal of a decline in the environmental responsibility of this industry, and I hope that it is not perceived outwardly that the Storting in this context has reduced the environmental exposure in relation to the requirement that an international meeting in this area will take place in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e480	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e483	I want to get into this article at a moment that is not much affected in the forest report and in the committee's consideration of it, but on which it has become a big debate in the last few days. I am thinking about the Right's proposal to share State Forest. State forest currently owns about one third of the land base in Norway, and State forest performs its own functions in a good way. They run a professionally good forest operation. And not least, Statskog is a landowner who well facilitates public access to hunting and fishing at an acceptable price. Norway’s Hunters and Fishermen’s Association has concluded agreements with the State Forest in a number of places in the country. These agreements regulate the possibility of hunting and fishing so that most people can participate. That is why the Norwegian Hunters and Fishermen's Association also said that it is State forest that manages the nation's heritage silver. There are classic right-wing policies that emerge today when the Right now takes the order for Statskog to sell out parts of its forest properties. This is the state with something of value. The state makes money on the state forest business. Of course it is then that some private wants to take over this business, and they immediately have their speakers in the Right. The working party will signal strong resistance to the Storting starting to impose on State forest and forest property sales. We are engaged in State Forest as a state enterprise with a social responsibility in addition to purely business operations. In particular, we are committed to maintaining the state forest as it is today, in order to ensure public access to hunting and fishing. If forest properties are to be sold out, it is obvious that access for people most to hunting and fishing is being restricted. A private purchaser shall first return the investment he makes. He shall then have a return on the same investment. The result must be an increase in the prices of access to hunting and fishing. There is also reason to point out that forestry in Statskog is carried out well professionally. Many private forest owners operate their properties on the basis of economic assessments. In times of good prices they take out timber, in times of bad prices they leave it alone. It is understandable, but not least for the forest and timber industries, it is important that forest owners with predictability and long-term prospects are available. State forest is such an owner. State forests also address the need to have a strong forest-based environment. The employees of Statskog are professionals working in such a large company that there are opportunities to maintain and develop this expertise. So the working party will already signal clear resistance to the sale of properties by State Forest. The exemption must, of course, be in cases where State forest itself considers this to be appropriate and duly entrusted with the social responsibility of State forest. I am glad that the same signal comes from the Minister of Agriculture, and I assume that the members of the government here in Stortinget will come to the same conclusion once they have thought about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e505	A good starting point has been improved by the Business Committee, the title of a notification from one of the major forest owners’ organisations. I think that in many ways is a good description. The council said that there is not often a forest on the agenda in Stortinget. Of course, he's right about that. And that's an expression of a low-levelism, which I've used on some occasions, for how the forest industry appears in the public debate. It is also a crossroads of thought that at some point — one of these rare occasions — as this is for debate, for example, it is. in the total absence of people who should be engaged in such an important industry. There are things in the forest announcement that the Right is not a hundred percent satisfied with, it's pointed out by our representatives in the trade committee. But there are also things that we are very happy about. We are particularly satisfied with the fact that we have been exposed to the environmental regulation. I noticed that the Council of State was less satisfied. I regret having to admit that in the grief he had to do in this context, he does not receive much support from the Right, rather on the contrary. We've got a lot of things going on. Previous talks address the issue of sub-privatisation of State Forest. The preliminary reports indicate that it also brings together a majority in Stortinget, so we have a new disappointment in store – unfortunately. With regard to the environmental regulations – I'm going to be a little careful with words here – I'm not very surprised about the Center Party anymore, but Morten Lund is the one who draws the environmental organisations with him in his criticism that the environmental regulations are not being implemented. I would like to repeat the question from a debate on hydropower development versus protection, which we had here a few days ago: is there any theme at all where the Central Party is on the side of the districts in relation to the central authorities? Either in terms of hydropower, predatory animal problems, or environmental activists in relation to being able to operate efficient forest management, the Senterparteen and the government in which they sit are on the wrong side – as opposed to the Workers' Party, where Dag Terje Andersen says clearly that the most important thing we can do here in the house is to keep track of the long-termity and predictability that this industry needs is to keep track of the economy of our country. It should concentrate its forces on it, and forestry is perfectly capable of governing itself, as they have done over long, long periods of time. I am also pleased that we are getting an improvement on the forest tax and forest tax, and at all that the concession provisions have been put on the agenda. For the time being, it has not been possible to involve the majority in an improvement in this context. It will not be easy to take on such an industry with the justice it deserves, during a brief article, so I would rather concentrate on the general information that operates on Norwegian forestry on a broad front. And in that context, I think the Norwegian Forest Company deserves special attention. The fact that there are business organisations that take care of the interests of the industry, it is in all industries. But that we have a broad non-profit that works consistently for the importance of the forest and has it on the agenda, I think can hardly be overestimated. It is perhaps the job that has been done in this context to get the importance of forest as an environmental factor on the agenda, as there is even greater reason to emphasise, and in particular the initiatives taken by Knut Dählen in the Forest Company that Norway can take steps to resolve climate negotiations. I hope that the government – the one who had to feel the call – will address that challenge. I would like to say, although it is good that the Minister of Agriculture is present, that it would not have harmed the Minister of the Environment also had found the opportunity to be in the Storting when such an important issue for the industry as this is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e522	I think it is very positive that we have received our own reports on Norwegian forestry policy. I will give tribute to the previous Minister of Agriculture, who started the work, and to the Council of State, Gjønnes, who has continued the work. Forestry products are important export articles for Norway. Value creation in forestry involves, inter alia: an export value of approx. $15 billion a year. It is also important to focus on the forest as a diversity of resources and opportunities. I want in my article to focus on some measures that I think should be given great importance. I am pleased that the majority of the committee asks the Ministry of Agriculture to consider making the forest culture subsidy scheme applicable to all property categories. Properties with a balance of more than 3000 m3 are often the most active in forest culture work. This provides a basis for manual work and the possibility of full-year employment for forest workers. I hope that the Council of State will also implement the subsidy scheme in the Eastern countries and in East Agder as soon as possible. In relation to forestry, I would like to point out the need to facilitate safe access to seed and plant material. Furthermore, I am pleased that the Committee states that the forest tax system remains a pillar of sustainable forestry funding and promotes measures that will stimulate increased investment. I hope the department finds it possible to lift the limits of the so-called tax advantage, and that the tax advantage is increased to 50 pst. The reduced tax revenue will be a reasonable contribution from the government to increase long-term investments in forestry. In the long term, this will be a very sensible use of public resources. I am very pleased that the Government has proposed that, as a testing scheme for five years, a levy be set on forest for the promotion of common measures in forestry. R & D in the forest sector is very important. It is positive that the trade organisations have joined this proposal. The implementation of an active value added programme will require good nationwide information for decision-makers. I believe that the Norwegian Forest Company, with its information skills, should become an active and important player in this context. I would also like to point out the considerable effort that the Norwegian Forest Company is making in a number of areas of forestry, both nationally and internationally. It is therefore important that the Ministry of Agriculture contributes to ensuring the financial resources of the Forest Society so that they can continue their very important work throughout the country. Training and skills building are also crucial in this industry. In particular, research in the north should be strengthened. NISK has no researcher specifically working on forestry north of Dovre. I hope that a research position can be earmarked for the work of the northern mountain. There will be an important measure for forestry in this part of the country. Training and skills building across the professional sectors will be an important contribution to the dissemination of knowledge about the potential of the wood. Information to users of laurel products will be important here. The information provided by the Norwegian Forest Company from its own showroom in Oslo is a positive tool. The use of this facility as a national information centre for lumber products should be relevant. It is important that the knowledge dissemination of decision-makers is maintained. In this context, stronger leads may be needed in relation to the forest section of the county and the municipalities. Competence building should also take place in environments outside the forest sector in order to increase end-users’ knowledge of the wood’s potential. Entrepreneurship in teacher training and in school education will be a positive contribution in this context. I will also mention that the strengthening of entrepreneurial training in the existing training at the vocational schools for forestry, for example. at Sønsterud, Saggrenda and Finsås, will be a positive measure. Finally, I would like to underline the desire for an increased upgrade of forestry in our assistance work. The challenges are great, but Norwegian forestry could be an important and active contributor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e548	The forest report refers to the diversity and importance of forests for Norway in a comprehensive and good way. It is important to remember that forestry is an industry that lives in an open international market. Technological innovations and new production processes in one country are rapidly exacerbating pressure on competition and the possibility of price reductions in another country. It is a fact that the yield in Europe is not increasing, and this volume of forest is now increasing by 200 million. m3 per cent. years. It is against this background that forest industries are now being built in Europe, among others. several large cases in Germany. I strongly doubt whether we are in Norway, and in this position, the forest industry is serious enough. It would be tragic if exports of forest in the long term were to become a pure commodity export. So it's the industry's framework that worries me the most, because if the industry goes down, the whole chain will get into trouble. Developments towards larger and fewer units in the forest industry will lead to higher transport costs and, when transport costs are gradually transferred to the forest owner, more and more forests will become unprofitable. Today, the level of investment is far too low, and the quality of forest cultural work does not meet objectives. I think that forestry is worth being an industry that lives in competition and that is doing itself as much as possible. However, many of the investments made in forestry have a perspective ranging from 60 to 100 years, and will therefore be tasks for which society is responsible. It is all the more gratifying that in this setting there are many positive elements. I'll comment on a couple of them. In the opinion of the Ministry, subsidies to forest culture were to apply to all property categories with a balance of more than 3000 m3 with the exception of the properties in the Eastern and East Agder counties. I am very pleased that the Committee and the Labour Party believe that the subsidy scheme should also apply to East and East Agder. Traffic becomes an important factor in profitability, not least for commodity producers. The county roads are poor and the axle load limits the amount of transport. The construction of forest roads is controversial for environmental reasons, but is crucial for profitability. It is important that the administrative responsibility for forest roads remains in the Ministry of Agriculture. With regard to the Government's proposal to lay down an environmental regulation based on the Forestry Act, I have to wonder that the Christian People's Party and the Centre are in favour of this across the industry's clear warnings. Decisions and powers shall be transferred from industry to bureaucracy. The industry does not oppose environmental requirements. The important project Live Forest is a cooperation project between the forest industry, the open-air organisations, the authorities and the forest industry on which standards of forestry and forestry in Norway should apply and be based. It has been said clearly that the introduction of environmental regulations will be seen as a distrust of the responsibility of the forestry industry through the Live Forest project. I am therefore pleased that the Workers' Party has taken forestry seriously and is opposed to the introduction of environmental regulations now and in two years' time to assess whether the project will continue. In my opinion, the communication presented by the Council of State is good, and it has been further improved by the Economic and Social Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e569	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e572	First, I would like to express my support for the post that Bjørn Håkon Hanssen had on Statskog. SV is also strongly opposed to a partial privatization of State Forest. I'm not going to go into it any further now, but just refer to the arguments Hanssen made. So I'll go back to the suggestions. 4 and 5, which SV has promoted. I have received some signals that it is a wish that they are sent. I just have to express some impatience gradually in relation to these questions, because there's a lot of talk. I have heard this for many years – both to ensure that heavy transport is transferred to the railways and to be able to praise environmentally friendly energy so that it becomes competitive and at least in a start-up phase manages to get over your knees, so that you can achieve a volume and get an infrastructure that allows you to compete. But it's very difficult to get to anything other than rather non-obligatory formulations on this. That's why we want to challenge a little bit now, if you can at least give a good reason why you shouldn't go in on these proposals right now. There are proposals for the Government to submit proposals so that they do not have financial implications here and now. You do not commit, you can decide on it when the proposals come forward. And this is important. If potential bioenergy projects are not realized now, the possibility of their being realised disappears, because then it will be invested in another infrastructure and then it will cost twice as much in retrospect to use bioenergy, which requires water-borne heat. This means that a commitment to bioenergy will also be able to use very marginal resources in forestry, which has now been said to be even more marginal because prices on the world market are falling. So this is a niche that it's very important to get hold of. It can create a lot of jobs, and we can be in the forefront of an area where we have competitive advantage. Even in the case of transport, and environmentally friendly transport, if it is invested in even more, larger and longer cars and even more on the road, investment in rail and a boost for the transport that makes it possible for them not to praise themselves out of this large segment that timber and other products from the forestry industry are, not to mention, precisely because they have gone into other heavy investments that would result in double investment. So here it's important to seize the opportunity when it's there, and not sit and just wait and see what happens. Then you let the environmentally friendly options go away, and then we're left with something other than what the majority have always said they want. So I'll encourage you to evaluate this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e583	I had also intended to comment on the proposals, including: at the request of the representative Karin Andersen. Many of the proposals presented, both from the Right, the Progress Party and the SV, have commented on the Working Party and the Committee majority in the configuration. I think it's a little bad if we somehow get to force proposals that have so many good intentions in them, so I have to get into it a little bit. The representative Ivar Kristiansen expected support from the Labour Party to the Right and the Progress Party's proposals. When it comes to the driving gear regulations, we have referred in the note to the unfortunateness of various statutes in Norway and in competing countries, and have argued that the Government is resolving this issue with the first. But it also has the road standard and the willingness to use funds here to do, and the council confirmed to you on a question from me here instead that this will be followed up. I therefore call on the Right and the Advance Party to make proposal No. 1 to a transmission proposal. The same applies to proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We have made it clear that a tax advantage should be improved in relation to forest fees in order to stimulate increased investment. But we are not ready to go directly to the Right and the Progress Party's proposal without a better explanation of this. In the light of both the Government's replies here and what I have now said, I ask that this proposal be converted into a transmission proposal, otherwise we will be forced to vote against it. So to SV's suggestions. I commented in a previous post of the railway and expressed that it is considered that the railway is no longer competitive when it comes to the transport of timber. All the analyses show that it should be, at least on long distance transport, as long as one has good reading and reading equipment. This has a lot to do - the road tax is just one thing. I think it's right that we're now looking at this in a larger context, and I hope that the government will follow it up. I'm asking SV to turn the proposal into a transmission proposal, so we get it distributed. The same applies to the proposal on biofuels. It is true, as Karin Andersen says, that, unfortunately, it is too wretched, or too uncompetitive, in relation to other forms of energy. As I said, we're not in the forefront of using economic instruments to make biofuels more competitive, but this also needs to be dealt with in a much broader context. I argued that on the basis of what has been said here, and what has been said in the committee comment, the council will follow it up. I therefore call on SV to also turn this proposal into a transmission proposal, otherwise we will be forced to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e601	I have announced this week that the Right will start an investigation on the property portfolio of Statskog. I noticed that the representative Hanssen, from the same municipality as Statskog, had a great deal of commitment and signalled strong opposition from the Workers' Party to the sale of state properties. And SV gave its unreserved and warm support. This has been largely the case in the case of state ownership, so there is nothing new in the case of state ownership of property. But in this case, it can be easy to clarify what you want to do, and what you don't want to do. I have not called for the privatisation of Statskog, I have not put the search light specifically on the operation of Statskog. What I've been talking about is that I want a review of Statskog's property portfolio, primarily on the forest side. And within the property portfolio on which State Forest sits, there is, from one extreme, where it is obvious that State Forest should be the owner, and that the state should own the property, a moving transition to properties that there really are no good arguments for being at the hand of the state. It's a review of what I want. And I have to say that I wonder a bit about some of the statements, not from the Workers' Party and SV – they are the ones that have been taken out of the textbook that they have had since the morning – but from the government parties, who have had representatives who have spoken from this pulpit for something of the same thing. Because when you look at the historical reasons that some of the properties are owned by the state, you see, as the examples begin to flow in from landing to landing, that there's a lot here that we at least hadn't accepted, it would have happened today. It's King, it's Fun and it's Bishop – and I don't know who – who has made sure that this has been on the government's hand. What I want is a critical review of this. Then I imagine that some of these properties should be sold to private individuals, preferably to the properties they should have belonged to for a long time, and preferably for the establishment of private publications. But I have to say that if you have the principle starting point that the more forest and property on your hands, the easier one will be able to fulfill what Hanssen is arguing for, namely public access to hunting and fishing, you can wonder why not the commitment is greater to create more, to further increase this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e610	As the case rapporteur for such a big and important matter as the forest report, I do not feel that I have been told what I want in five minutes. This is the fate of small parties, whether or not you are the case rapporteur or not. Now, however, there is a large consensus on the main lines of Norwegian forestry policy. This is why many of the contributions that have been made have highlighted the views of the majority of the committee and supported the government's policy. I have noticed the posts on the right, where everyone points – and we all agree – that we should be concerned about profitability. But especially in the case of the Advance Party, I believe that the absence of long-term, necessary thinking in long-term paths in the case of forests, has been significant. But the importance of this has been clarified by many, so that there is full support for it. With regard to the proposals, I can refer to what Torstein Rudihagen said about the proposals of the Progress Party and the Right. This is, of course, well commented on in the Committee's recommendation. It would be a shame, with the leaders lying there, if these were to be voted down. They should therefore be transmission proposals. The same applies to the proposals from SV, and I would like to pay particular attention to the proposal on bioenergy. This includes, among other things: the area to be covered by the value creation programme that has now been fully approved. That's why I think it belongs there. There are several people here who have been involved in the great commitment to the matter. There has been a positive process of constructive input from organisations. It appears that the majority of the Committee has made the right decisions in this regard. We can see that, among other things. on the recordings we have received. Not later than today at 1 p.m. 09.51. There came a fax with an address for the presidency. It was a resolution from the Annual Meeting of the Norwegian Forest Association entitled ‘We’re Taking the Challenges!’. They had an annual meeting in Fredrikstad on 8 and 9 June. The resolution says: «The whole forestry cooperative has been closely involved in the work on Stmeld No. 17 – Skogmelden. The Communication has now been discussed in the Danish Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Annual Meeting notes that there is a good basis for further work. We feel that the message presents us with many challenges, and we are going to meet these constructively. We will take responsibility for further development of forestry!’ When we also know the competent management we have, both politically and administratively in the Ministry of Agriculture, the basis is for a new gift and a boost for the forest industry here to land.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e630	First, a few brief comments on the rapporteur's observations on the alleged lack of long-termity of the Advance Party. As we see it, you get a robust, competitive and long-term forestry industry by primarily stimulating good framework conditions. In this way, robust and competitive forestry, a forestry that today has to deal with an international, competitive market. The introduction of new support, regulation and subsidy schemes does not bring forest industry one single step forward in view of the international competitive situation in forestry. But that's not why I took the floor, it was for the proposals. After hearing Mr Rudihagen's statements, on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party, I will re-examine the proposals. 1 and 2 in the vote on the transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e639	After listening to the representative Rudihagen, I felt motivated, or provoked, to take the floor. I tried to listen as well as I can, but some of us may have a bit heavy for it. I tried to listen to why one had to vote against the proposals if they were not sent, but I listened in vain. I thought you might have some objections to the wording of the proposals, but I didn't hear that. I therefore have problems understanding why the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties cannot vote in favour of the SV's proposal. For example: the proposal for the removal of road tax, we know that the railway has lost some contracts recently because they were not good enough when it came to price. At the same time, we know that in the case of timber, tiles, etc., the road charge is approx. 6-7 pst. of the costs of the railway. And if 6-7 pst. in the event of costs being eliminated, this may be the case for the railway to win these contracts, as requested by a broad majority. There are strong local responses to a transition from path to road. Everyone wants the opposite transition. That is why I have problems understanding why it is so difficult for the majority in this Chamber to vote in favour of a proposal with which the objective is agreed. The wording is no more problematic than asking the Government to make proposals for, for example: the removal of road charges for the railway, which give environmental transport a competitive advantage. This area is important. I therefore believe that this should have been adopted, so that there was an obligation on the part of the Government to make proposals. I therefore ask again why you feel that you have to vote against such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e645	I would like to make a few observations on the tame of this debate. St.meld. No 17 is entitled ‘Value creation and environment — opportunities in the forest sector’. The content is significantly different from the previous forest report, where one had a much more one-sided focus on the nutritionists, on those who own the forest. But any certificate from the forestry organisations is no guarantee that this has been good. I'm actually in the lucky situation that I've been a forest owner. I know a lot of forest owners, I know the organizations, I know the policy, and I know that there are big differences among forest owners in the will and understanding of the environmental responsibility you have as a forest manager. I am convinced that we should be able to achieve a forestry policy where the environmental aspect is also well taken care of, because there are many who have and use the areas to which forestry also has access. When I say this, it's not to tone down the business policy, but to bring with us as a perfectly clear picture that when a new forest law is created, these perspectives will have to be incorporated in a new way in relation to the forest law we have today. If one had said that we should make a business law with a motto of freedom under responsibility, and if there is agreement that there should be a law, of course, the purpose is that there is something to be governed. If not, we don't need any law. And if a law is to be effective, it must be capable of being used for governance. We actually have regulations to be able to exercise governance through the law we have. These things are connected. So if the Storting thinks we need a law, it's because there's a need to have a certain direction with what's happening in forestry as such. I think this has been a constructive and straightforward debate. I agree that what has emerged during the course of the treatment in Stortinget also contributes to broadening the perspective and to providing – as it were – challenges to both the Council of State, the Government and the Department. I hope that this message will help us get a forestry industry and a forestry management that serves both forestry and society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e658	Very briefly to proposal No. 4, which reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals, such as the removal of road charges for rail, which give environmental transport a competitive advantage.’ The reason why we want the proposal to be turned into a transmission proposal is precisely that the majority of the Committee has said that we want the Government to come back with a full analysis of why the railways are not competitive in transport. The example given here will only be part of the total analysis that needs to be reviewed. That's why I think it's important to wait for that problem and that analysis, so that we get to see it all in the broadest possible perspective. That is why I think it is right that the proposal should be turned into a transmission proposal at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e668	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3787]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e682	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to one main feature of each group and of the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the posts allocated will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e687	The objectives and guidelines underlying the reindeer management policy are drawn up in St.meld. No 28 for 1991-92, A sustainable reindeer, and by the Storting i Innst.S. No 167 for 1991-92. The setting specifies sustainable reindeer management through the following three points: ecological sustainability economic sustainability The majority of the Committee has stressed that the reindeer management agreement and the reindeer management law should be a good governance element for the development of sustainable reindeer management. Purgatory, although a small industry, is one of the most important pieces of Sami culture and is about employment, housing and development for the Sami people. Therefore, it is important that this industry is based on an ecological understanding. Interactions between all parties concerned are also required, including: operators, reindeer management organisations, assembly and municipalities. The clean-up agreement must be one of the tools used to bring about social development in reindeer-farmed areas. Like other industries where the natural basis limits the scope of the activities, a person cannot have a higher reindeer figure and a higher output than the grazing basis can withstand. It is important that the reindeer management policy and industry themselves find instruments that can ensure sound management and take into account nature. Regardless of technical innovations and other aids, this is something that needs to be taken into account. Another important premise to strengthen the development of the industry is also knowledge and education. Many in the industry will have to stop because the number of clean ones and holdings will have to be limited. The challenge in the future will be to give the Sami community the necessary skills and conditions to develop jobs and businesses. It will be a prerequisite for creating combined possibilities and alternatives to reindeer management. As regards the sale of reindeer meat, there has been a positive development. However, from 1996 to 1997, there was a decline in production, resulting in an additional need for imports of meat compared to previous years. As a result of the GATT/WTO agreement, we now have a customs-based import protection for reindeer meat. The Labour Party believes that customs regulations must be practised in a way that protects the reindeer industry from competing imports. The working party believes that a careful increase in the quantity of reindeer meat traded in Norway should be facilitated. Such an increase could improve the economy of slaughterhouses and thus the basis for the payment price to reindeer owners. If slaughterhouses do not have satisfactory raw material access, this would lead to high costs per year. kg of slaughter, which in turn will lower the price to the reindeer owners. In periods of low Norwegian-produced reindeer meat imports will need to strengthen the industry, both economically and on the market, as regards the fact that reindeer meat should not lose its modest share in the domestic market and that there will be no unnecessary change in the structure of slaughterhouses pending an increase in the production of reindeer meat. Therefore, the Workers' Party will be involved in ensuring that reindeer meat can be treated with care at times when there is a particular need for imports. The negative development we see in the reindeer industry, especially in Finnmark, there is only one solution, that the reindeer have to go down. The negative focus on reindeer death does not benefit the industry. The majority support the measures adopted by the reindeer management agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e725	The annual proposals on the reindeer management agreement are benevolent because the reindeer industry has long been a problem for the economy and the environment. Despite the continuous and significant state subsidies that politicians have experimented with, we have not seen light in the tunnel. It's also getting worse. The party of progress did not want to be part of this gallery. We have always pointed out the need for a radical change in industrial policy in this area. The continuation of current regulatory arrangements or the combination of new ones accompanied by significant economic instruments will not solve the problems of the reprocessing industry. The incentive and regulatory arrangements discourage the necessary structuralisation of reindeer management. Nor does the industry have any natural corrections in the form of a normal market to deal with. The usual self-regulation that takes place through the free choice of goods and services by consumers has been set aside and replaced by subsidies and governance that run counter to commercial, environmental and animal protection interests. The political majority should be willing to admit that today's reindeer management policy has failed. Almost everyone, except some politicians and bureaucrats, is dissatisfied with the situation. Tax payers are strongly responding to significant capital injection into this through annual grants and conversion programmes in the hundreds of millions of krones that do not work. They're tired of political experiments for which they're constantly paying the bill. What has happened is a well-known economic phenomenon. When the authorities decided a few years ago that reindeer management would be a field of activity through significant state subsidies, they created a picture of a reindeer operation that would provide good opportunities and a real standard of living. Many young people are given a hope for the future. We get too many clean and too many professionals, and we have the results. Many believe that the Russian rule is played with Finnmarksvidda, and that we are moving towards an ecological collapse. Slowly graze down and become a desert. Moses and low disappear, and large areas are killed by sand and gravel. Nature is collapsing. A unique wilderness is dying. Researchers at the University of Tromsø have documented the misery. It also means that many reindeer farmers get a miserable economy. But the worst of all: thousands of pure starvation in the heel every year, with all the animal trading this involves. The animals suffer immensely from starvation and demagoguery because there is no proper food for all. And the resource accounts are scary. 56 pst. Of all the calves born in Karasjok last year, the numbers from Kautokeino are almost as bad. It is no longer useful to rely on economic baits, and it should now be obvious to everyone that there have been unfortunate instruments that have counteracted the absolutely necessary structuralisation of reindeer management. We in the Progress Party have constantly warned and wanted to replace today's market-management system, which will ensure the necessary flock reduction in relation to available grazing resources. If this industry is treated in the same way as other industrial activities and public liability is reduced to sensible resource and environmental management, the reindeer industry will have positive development opportunities for those who continue in the industry. So now the big community must choose: either the state-subsidized but environmentally destructive chaos, or the free market with fewer actors, where grazing resources provide better opportunities for harvesting in a sustainable way. The Progress Party will claim that general rules of the game, which may provide good conditions for all professionals in a geographical area, are the only way to go if a national minority really wants to be given good opportunities and offered a good standard of living and a hope for the future for its youth. The alternative is to move away from a one-sided business reserve, without the variation in job offers and opportunities that young people require, regardless of language and cultural background. It must be a cross of thought that so many young people today vote with their feet, leave the countryside, leave the districts and judge Norwegian district policy in practice north and down. The flow continues to go a long way from town to town. For the first 15 months of a Bondevik government, from 1 October 1997 to 31 December 1998, we had a net relocation of 8,500 people from District Norway and into the cities. The Progress Party regards the reindeer industry as an interesting food supply in the districts of the years to come, but it will be unsustainable for this and other supported primary industries to depend on an unforeseeable political will to continue subsidising. Only through equal treatment of all economic pathways in the areas concerned will minorities be able to find profitable productions and thus keep their young people in place. Like the agricultural contract, the reindeer management agreement is not a system of transfers that promotes innovation, nor does it premium customer-adapted production. Thus, the result in terms of major environmental problems and the mere profitability of today's reindeer should not surprise anyone. To vote: The progress party will vote against the three roman numerals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e748	For the Sami population, reindeer and Sami culture are closely linked. Although the reindeer industry is a small industry in the national context, both for the Sami population and in the local context, economic and employment are crucial. Therefore, let me first say that the Right supports the negotiated agreement and refer to our comments as indicated in the cancellation. There is no doubt that the reindeer industry, particularly in Finnmark, is currently extremely vulnerable and vulnerable. And we have to take seriously the situation that has arisen in recent years. If not, we – as several previous speakers have – end up in an ecological crisis in parts of Finnland that will take a very long time to sort out. We have an imbalance between the number of clean and grazing grounds, and it is therefore superfluous that the agreement between the parties primarily stimulates a much better balance between purity and grazing basis. For this reason, it is important and necessary, in the view of the Right, that a reduction in cleanness should be carried out, while stressing that, in order to reduce cleanness, it is necessary to make all the practitioners equal in principle. Finnmark is hardly served by an organisation where individual groups are exempted, while the reduction in reindeer numbers only has to hit the biggest drivers. There must be very strong reasons before a major intervention such as forced slaughter is carried out. If this is to be done, the assumption must be that an equal share is taken out of each flock. So I just want to say a few words about the import of live animals. Actually, the market situation for reindeer meat is good here in the country. I think that instead of charging as much as you do today, you should stimulate the import of live animals and reindeer meat into Norway. It could create an additional activity, especially in Finnmark, that would come along well. In addition, I believe that the agreement should try to give market promotion more space than they have. Since the market situation is good, reindeer sector operators should learn a little from what is done in the agricultural industry, where profile marketing and marketing are generally among the most important and best in the country. So in the end, I just have to make it clear that I don't think, as the representative Hedstrom was the spokesman for, that you can blame the reindeer agreement on all the problems you're having in District Norway. I think it is very difficult to refer to the grubbing-up agreement with regard to the major problems currently being addressed in Finnmark. I think it must be clear that public investment taking place in this context in Finnmark, and in particular in relation to the Sami population, can withstand the light of day in all areas, no matter what other investment one chooses to compare with. To include the public costs earmarked for Finnmark County, or for the Sami population, comparisons of other public costs must be included in the name of justice. It could have been tempting to develop some highlights from the large, heavy national bets to be made in other parts of the country, which would put the reindeer agreement entirely in the shadow of a tiny bracket in this context. But I'm not going to distract the assembly from going into these.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e763	There are three objectives underpinning the policy of reindeer management: ecological sustainability, economic sustainability and cultural sustainability. All three objectives are interrelated. There will be no economy in reindeer management if one departs from ecological principles, and the cultural sustainability disappears on the day when one takes insufficient ecological considerations, thus affecting the economy and weakening the possibilities for continued operation. For generations, the sewage industry has been perceived and accepted as a very special Sami industry. Purification is therefore an important part of the material basis for Sami culture and must be provided with the means to give it the opportunity to make the necessary adjustments so that operations can be ecologically sustainable and therefore also economic. It is reassuring that, according to the suspension, the Progress Party does not understand the need to maintain Sami culture, nor the need to establish an ecologically sustainable operating pattern. This year, too, the state and the reindeer organisations reached agreement on an agreement that, at my discretion, is a good deal for the individual performer, while the agreement as such provides the basis for a robust industry in the future. In this year’s reindeer management agreement, the parties have agreed on a different strategy to achieve ecologically sustainable operation in Finnmark, as previous measures to reduce the reindeer have not had the desired effect. These measures may include, inter alia: The Inner Finnmark Conversion Programme, which has been provided with significant funds. It has been tried before. In this year's agreement, grants have been provided for the redemption of holdings and a plan for depopulation. I hope and believe that these measures are sufficient so that we do not use the rice behind the rear-view mirror, which is compulsory depopulation for the individual holding according to the regulations of the Ministry of Agriculture, based on the Law on Repurchase. Moreover, an early retirement scheme has now also been established for reindeer farmers, as ensured by the negotiations on agricultural settlements last year. The sewerage industry is particularly important for Finnmark, for the direct employment of reindeers and for indirect employment in the regional centres, where slaughterhouses and other processing establishments are located. The combination of reduced reindeer numbers and increased demand for reindeer meat must continue to be sought through imports of live animals for slaughter from Finland and Russia and, where necessary, these imports should also be increased. In this way, for example: the slaughterhouse and processing industries make use of their capacity throughout the year. The proposition also provides compensation of SEK 4.3 million. kr, which is required due to radioactive reindeer meat. The Progress Party will not grant this money either. They call it a camouflaged subsidy scheme. It's totally wrong. No reindeer want this item of income, nor do any other livestock keepers want to be affected by radioactivity. This compensation is a compensation for the loss of slaughter value and for the increased costs incurred by them as a result of the Chernobyl accident. Otherwise, I would like to point out to the articles of the Progress Party that I do not believe that the recipe of the Progress Party will rock the settlement in Finnmark. In all mentions relating to Sami activities and general activities in Finnmark, the tone of the Advance Party is such that it will not stimulate the activity in that part of the country. At my discretion, the existing agreement between the State and the NRL is a good instrument for developing a robust reindeer industry, which is both ecologically, economically and culturally sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e786	Purification as an industry has initially many positive elements in it. It represents a good and sensible use of resources in marginal mountain and outlying areas. It contributes to nutritional diversity and is an important bearer of Sami culture. On the part of the Government, the primary objective of the reindeer management policy is to facilitate ecological, economic and culturally sustainable reindeer management. The clean-up operation shall also be of animal protection concern. It is a fact that the challenges facing industry and management are many and comprehensive. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Economic and Social Committee, and also the Assembly, have, of course, adhered to the government's policy, as it emerges from the agreement. Over a number of years, the grazing situation in Finnmark has been in focus. In my view, the main picture provides a basis for serious concern. It is therefore gratifying, yes, also necessary that the industry, through this year’s reindeer management agreement, has itself taken responsibility for the necessary reindeer adjustment in the most vulnerable reindeer areas of Finnmark. I refer to paragraph 1 of the final protocol of the reindeer management agreement negotiations, which outlines a strategy whereby district managers in defined action districts are to draw up depopulation plans according to specified weight limits. At the same time, there is a special scheme for the redemption of holdings in these districts, which will help to further reduce the number of rennets. Furthermore, if these measures do not produce the necessary results, the following year the authorities will be required to lay down depopulation requirements for each holding under the Law on Repurchase Management. This is, moreover, in line with what has been an explicit objective both of the Government and of the Storting: to link the instruments of the reindeer management agreement and the reindeer management law more closely together. The Ministry of Agriculture will closely monitor the implementation of the strategies set out in the agreement of the year. It will be difficult to get the necessary scale adjustment in Finnmark. In this difficult task it is necessary to have the support of a clear majority in the Grand Duchy. The Contracting Parties also agree to introduce an early retirement scheme for reindeer farming according to the pattern of the agricultural agreement. I refer to paragraph 2 of the final protocol. This shall stimulate past generations’ transitions, as well as adaptation of the reindeer and structure of the industry. Last year’s agreement introduced a system of half a production premium additional to holdings where both spouses are actively involved in reindeer farming. This scheme continues and, in my view, is important in order to strengthen the position of women and to make their efforts visible in the industry. It can also be mentioned that a new position as a female consultant at Rein driftsverwaltung in Alta will further strengthen this work. Among other things, the female consultant should: work specifically to ensure that general nutritional measures take adequate account of women’s and family-oriented considerations. As in the examination of last year’s agreement, the majority is concerned with the import of live rein from Russia and Finland. There is reason to believe that in the coming years we will face a permanent need for imports. In this context, I am prepared to find schemes that provide slaughterhouse establishments and industry with the most foreseeable framework conditions with regard to import opportunities. When assessing whether to reduce customs duties, the need for the market will have to be taken into account. However, according to WTO legislation, Norway has clear obligations towards other WTO members in terms of customs and non-discrimination. We cannot set duty rates freely for imports from certain countries. It is also not possible to treat specific farms on the Norwegian side. Finally, there is reason to stress that imports require adequate security of veterinary and animal ethical considerations. We must not experience that last year's unfortunate experience of reindeer transport from Russia is going to be repeated in new situations. Finally, I would like to refer to the treatment of the agreement by the Assembly and the statements that have come from there, which will, of course, be important to take into account in the further work of the Government on the reindeer management policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e812	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e823	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e830	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 3-5, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposals of the Progress Party and the Right are included in the vote, while the proposals of the Socialist Left Party are distributed in the Chamber. Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Party of Advancement and the Right, have been converted into proposals for transmission and will be amended accordingly. Proposal No. 1 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government facilitate the introduction of vehicle regulations in respect of the following: axle load and wagon train length which are more consistent with provisions in our neighbouring country.» Proposal No. 2 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit proposals for changes to the forest tax system, with a view to removing or increasing substantially the amounts of the tax advantage and increasing the over-depreciation component.’ The President proposes that these proposals be submitted to the Government without a vote of the facts – and considered to be acceptable. Explanations of vote shall be given.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e858	During the debate earlier today, I have asked SV to make the proposal no. 4 and 5 on transmission proposal. I'll hold on to it. If they are standing, I urge the representatives of the Labour Party to vote against proposal No. Four and five. Otherwise, I urge the Labour Party's representatives to oppose proposal No. 3 and to vote in favour of the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e867	I have understood the call, but I am not going to follow it. Here it is so that while the grass grows, the cow dies, and now it must soon be started. I therefore maintain both proposals and proposal No. 5 as a special greeting to the power socialist Bent Hegna, who is 40 years old today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e872	Congratulations on the day! The President has not heard anything that tells us to split the votes. No one's giving any signs either. We shall vote on the motions for resolutions. 3, 4 and 5, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to adopt an environmental regulation based on the Forest Act as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals, such as the removal of road charges for rail, which give environmental transport a competitive advantage.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for regulatory, tax and legislative changes that provide the necessary competitive advantage for the environmentally friendly use of bioenergy.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e994	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10.ana.ud271e1010	There is no record.
