ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-02.ana.ud220e143	In accordance with the Constitution, the King will give this message to the Norwegian State and Government in the run-up to the last message. A fairer distribution between rich and poor countries is a central goal of the Government. Norway increased its development aid last year to NOK 10 billion. In this context, emphasis was placed on education and peace, human rights and democracy as important objectives. Since the turn of the year, Norway has held the Presidency of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe [[OSSE]] The North Atlantic Defence Alliance decided to use power to halt the increasing Serbian use of power against the ethnic Albanian civilian population in the Kosovo conflict. [[NATO]] The combination of power and diplomacy was decisive for a breakthrough in the process of reaching a political solution. Norway participated in the NATO air campaign with six F-16 aircraft and over 200 people. Norway has also taken an active part in adapting NATO to the new security policy situation in Europe. The NATO summit in Washington in April approved the new strategic concept of the alliance. Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic were recorded as members of NATO in March 1999. In the light of these developments in security policy, the government has named a Defence Policy Selection to assess the tasks and level of ambition of the Defence in the future. In May, the Prime Minister visited Russia. The visit helped to strengthen the positive bilateral relationship between Russia and Norway. Norway, Russia and Iceland entered into an agreement that ended the unregulated Icelandic cod fishing in the Smothol in the Barents Sea. The government assumes that this will lead to the arrangement of fishing conditions in the northern regions. In spring, the government put forward a pro-posal on the agreements with the EU on institutional solutions for the connection to Schengen cooperation after it was integrated into the EU. Work has also been started on a separate communication on Norwegian European policy. The economic development in Norway has been good in time for the last notification. Since the turn of the year, the exchange rate has clearly strengthened in relation to the euro. The exchange rate was about 3 pst in mid-September. greater than the 1998 average. This must be somethin'. see in the light of the difference in interest rates in the euro area, the implementation of the settlement of income, the increase in the oil price, the fall in the price of the euro against the US dollar and the confidence in a stable development for the Norwegian economy. On the other hand, last year the value of oil and gas exports was reduced by 28 p.m., mainly because the oil price went down sharply. The first seven months of this year, the value of oil and gas exports has increased by 1.7 pst. relative to the same period last year. As part of the 1999 statement of revenue, an income policy conference was held in December 1998 with participants from the Contact Committee. A fast-working selection was created later as banned in 1999. It is gratifying that participation in the profession is now at the highest level ever measured. In the last two years, employment has increased by about 70,000 people. The number of unemployed persons fell in the same period, but since the summer it has increased somewhat compared to the same month of the previous year. The population in Norway has also increased over the last year despite the fact that fewer children were born than the previous two years. Life expectancy was around 1998 as a year before for both women and men. The government has increased regional policy efforts with a primary focus on personal rights measures and the development of a knowledge-based business. We are therefore pleased that the net relocation from the northernmost states was slightly smaller last year than in 1997. For 1999, a real increase in income in the municipal sector is estimated at about 2 pst. The growth of activity has been particularly high in health care and care for the elderly. Local authorities have faced major challenges when it comes to migration and financial management. In May, the Government presented the wholesale communication on electronic commerce and business operations with a view to strengthening the competitiveness of Norwegian business and safeguarding privacy and consumer protection. The government has also strengthened its efforts to promote IT in the regions and has also stressed this in its efforts to facilitate an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. Prevention of possible societal difficulties due to possible data failures in the transition to the year 2000 has also been a priority during the period. In the agricultural sector, the government has started to work on the warning message on agricultural policy. The Government has launched the programme A simpler Norway with the aim of creating a simpler central government, a simpler regulatory framework and making it easier for the local government to use resources for service provision rather than administration and reporting. In July, the Government presented an action plan to end the use of health and environmental hazardous chemicals. The most dangerous chemicals will be removed, business will have to take greater responsibility for their own chemical use and access to information on the substance will be improved. In addition, the government has provided a major communication on the distribution of income and living conditions in Norway from 1986 and beyond in the 1990s — the so-called living conditions notification. Here we have proposed measures to achieve a better distribution. In the hospital sector, the capacity and number of patients treated have increased. By the end of April, about 5,000 breaches of the waiting list guarantee were recorded, against about 12,000 at the end of the year. In addition, in the previous session, the size passed the law on patients’ rights, the law on health professionals, the law on specialist health services, the law on compensation for patients’ injuries and the law on the establishment and implementation of mental health protection. At the turn of the year, 61 pst. by all pre-school children place in kindergarten. Cash support was extended from the turn of the year to two-year-olds. As of August, child care and cash support rates were harmonised so that parents can be more freer with regard to choice of care for children. Prior to the education sector, the Government has provided a key message on the single school, the equivalent training provision and a national strategy for the assessment and quality development of primary and secondary education. The principle of dimensioning higher education was presented to the Stortinget in spring, on the basis that universities and higher education institutions must be able to adapt to change. In June, the government presented a big research report which sets out the main objective of strengthening research efforts in Norway. At the same time, a $3 billion research fund was created to increase the long-term public funding for research. The decision to build a new opera house in Bjørvika was an important cultural policy event at the end of this hundred year. The government has begun to implement the plan to facilitate debt debt to the poorest countries and has accelerated this work internationally. The first annual report on Norway's work on human rights was presented in December last year. The adoption of the Human Rights Act of 21 May 1999 was an important step in strengthening the position of human rights in Norway. As a newly elected member of the UN Commission on Human Rights, Norway took an active part in the Commission's work in the spring session. In addition, the government has supported two temporary criminal courts for Rwanda and former Yugoslavia, which see as an important contribution to long-term peace and reconciliation in the area around the large lakes of Africa and the Balkans. Norway has also taken part in the negotiations under the United Nations regime to prepare for the establishment of the permanent international criminal court, and preparations have been made for the ratification of the Statutes of the Court of Justice. Within the ILO, a convention was concluded in June 1999 which prohibits the worst forms of child labour. The Convention is an important instrument in the fight against child labour. Humanitarian aid for victims of conflicts and natural disasters is an increasingly large part of Norway’s overall assistance. The most important areas of activity this year have been Kosovo, Central Africa, the Horn of Africa, the Middle East and Afghanistan. The government presented a strategy for further humanitarian action in January. A key element of the strategy is that humanitarian aid should be seen in conjunction with other efforts for peace, human rights and development, so that short-term and long-term action is more closely linked to integrated elements of the overall assistance. In winter, a strategy for the development of nutrition in the south was presented, and in May, the basis for a reorganised peace corps was presented. The Convention on the Prohibition and Destruction of Antipersonnel Mines took effect on 1 March 1999. Norway took part in the first meeting of the State Party, which was held in Mozambique in May 1999. The government aims to spend nearly one billion dollars over five years on global mining operations. Norway took over the presidencies in the Austersjö region in June. The areas of action during the Presidency are democracy development, energy cooperation, economic cooperation and civil security. The government has placed great emphasis on renegotiation of the Convention on Conventional Disarmament in Europe, CFE. Norway ratified the cease-fire agreement in nuclear testing in August 1999. [[CTBT]] The size has entered into the veterinary agreements between the EFTA/EEA countries and the EU and Norway is taking part in the cooperation on medicinal products in the EU. Norway participated from this year in the 5th EU Framework Programme for Research. The EFTA/EEA countries and the EU have further agreed on an economic framework of approximately DKK 1 billion over five years for a new loan and grant scheme under the EEA Agreement. The government has carried out a comprehensive monitoring of Norwegian interests to prepare the forthcoming round of negotiations in the World Trade Organisation [[WTO]] The work of presenting Norway abroad through press, cultural and information measures and informing about Norwegian foreign, development and human rights policies has been a high priority. At the fourth meeting of the Parties to the UNFCCC, a two-year action plan was adopted to ensure that the decisions of the Convention are followed up and that the Kyoto Protocol is concrete and put into practice with particular emphasis on the flexible implementation mechanisms. In March, Norway had a state visit from South Africa and from Hungary, and in September, the Norwegian royal couple visited Romania. The operating balance vis-à-vis the rest of the world showed a surplus of SEK 6.3 billion in the first half of this year, against a surplus of DKK 6.8 billion at the same time last year. Imports and exports of traditional goods went down by 5.3 pst each. and 2.1 pst. the first seven months of the year, compared with the same period last year. Thus, the external trade balance for mainland Norway showed a deficit of approximately DKK 41 billion after the first seven months of this year, compared with approximately NOK 47 billion last year. Norway's net claims on the rest of the world decreased by DKK 8.3 billion in the first half of the year and are estimated at approximately DKK 87 billion. In the first half of last year, Norway Bank purchased currency for the petroleum and petroleum insurance funds for a total of DKK 24.6 billion. On the other hand, it was to support the Norwegian krone sold currency equivalent to 35.5 billion kroner in the second half of the year, so that Norway Bank for the year set below one net sold currency of 10.9 billion kroner. Until mid-September this year, Norway Bank has bought a currency of more than DKK 3.5 billion. All of this is the purchase of the petroleum fund and the petroleum insurance fund. At the end of the first six months of this year, the market value of the investments for the petroleum fund was DKK 182.7 billion. The value of oil and gas exports was NOK 118.3 billion in 1998. That's 27.7 pst. lower than the previous year, which is primarily due to lower crude oil prices, but also to a slightly lower export quantity of crude oil. The first seven months of this year, the value of oil and gas exports has increased by 1.7 pst. in relation to the corresponding period in 1998. The first seven months of this year the export price of crude oil was DKK 107 per month. average. That's 10.3 pst. higher than the first seven months of last year. Exports of fish and fish products are growing steadily. In 1998, 27.8 billion dollars of fish were exported, of which almost 10 billion accounted for a total quantity of 1.9 million. tonnes. Norway has worked actively in international organisations and administrative regimes to ensure sustainable use and management of marine resources. Control cooperation with the EU has been strengthened in the last year. We now have separate control agreements with most countries around the North Sea. Norway hosted the fourth North Atlantic Fisheries Ministerial meeting in June this year, and Norway also organised a symposium on management strategies for fish stocks in the Barents Sea in June this year. It was the eighth joint Norwegian-Russian symposia on fisheries research. This time also involved representatives from the administration and industry. In June, the Government presented a big message on the adaptation of the Defence to participate in international operations. The notification includes: to ensure that our policy objectives are met by establishing a set of foreign strengths to be included as a central element of national defence. Security and defence cooperation with the countries of the Nordic-Baltic region has continued, and Norway is taking part in the development of the defence structure of the Baltic countries. A new annual action plan for defence-related cooperation between Norway and Russia has been adopted. The defence is facing substantial investment in new material. The purchase of new frigates and fighter aircraft is an important contribution to Norway's maintaining a credible defence with the ability to safeguard Norwegian sovereignty and to meet future security challenges. The government has reduced a public selection to figure out how vulnerable our society is, and to help renew and develop security and preparedness work to meet new threats in our time in peace, crisis and war. The selection shall submit, before the summer of 2000, proposals for measures to safeguard the civilian population and social critical services. Nearly 37 000 people move to Norway in 1998, while almost 23 000 move out of the country. The transfer surplus was thus 14,000 people, an increase of 3000 people from the previous year. At the turn of the year, 165 000 foreign citizens bid in the country. They were 3.7 pst. of the population. A total of 9 000 people received Norwegian citizenship in 1998, which is slightly less than the previous two years. The registered unemployment rate among first-generation immigrants was 6.3 pst. at the end of May of this year. At international level, Norway has taken an active part in negotiating two regional agreements on the reduction of the use of pollutants. Furthermore, Norway has negotiated further exemptions from EU legislation in some areas where we still have stricter national requirements. A project group set up by the Nordic Council of Ministers has developed a Nordic action plan for the protection of the natural and cultural environment in Greenland, Iceland and Svalbard. The plan was discussed by the Nordic Environment Ministers at a ministerial meeting in Iceland in August. Norway has further developed environmental cooperation with both China, Indonesia and South Africa during the period. The government is working to improve the environmental and work environment through ship dismantling in developing countries. Norway has taken up the issue in the IMO, the United Nations Maritime Organisation, and is asked to submit a plan for further work. A national contingency plan for a global outbreak of influenza has been developed. [[Pandemic]] The government here facilitates a rapid and coordinated response when there is a risk of an influenza epidemic developing. The index of consumer prices increased by 1.9 pst. from August 1998 to August 1999. The average growth in the consumer price index in the first eight months of the year was 2.2 pst. in relation to the corresponding period last year. The electricity production was last year was 117 TWh, which is 4.5 pst. more than one year earlier. From 1997 to 1998, gross domestic consumption increased by 4.0 pst. to 120.6 TWh. The import surplus was 3.6 TWh in 1998 compared with 3.8 TWh in the previous year. The government issued a major communication on energy policy in April 1999. The message adds a conversion of energy consumption and energy production. The emphasis is on reducing the growth of energy consumption, especially electricity, and increasing the use of new, renewable energy sources. The production of oil, gas and NGL on the Norwegian continental shelf in 1998 was 223 million. Sm3 oil equivalents, against 229 million. Sm3 in 1997. The production of crude oil included NGL and condensate showed a decrease of 3 pst. and the production of natural gas showed an increase of 2 pst. In the first seven months of 1999, production was 129 million. Sm3 oil equivalent, decrease by 2.9 pst. relative to the same period last year. The investment cost in the oil industry was NOK 82 billion last year. That's 31 pst. higher than the previous year and the highest level ever recorded. The increase is mainly due to very high investment in field development as well as to a high level of field activity in operation and in terminals. An action plan has been adopted for the period 1999–2001 on Electronic Management – Cross-sectoral IT developments in central government. The plan shall contribute to better and more holistic use of IT in order to achieve the objectives of user-oriented, open and efficient management. In the spring of 1999, the size of the population gave broad support to the pan-European industrial policy strategy to the Government. In order to promote innovation and improve the conditions for small enterprises, the Government presented an action plan for small enterprises in October 1998. The plan actively addresses many of the factors affecting business start-up and conversion, with emphasis on measures to reduce the form field. The toolkit aimed at Norwegian enterprises is better through the reorganisation of Norway’s Industrial Attachés and through cooperation agreements between the Norwegian Export Council, the State Food and Rural Development Fund and the Norwegian Research Council. Svalbard Satellite Station was put into operation in the autumn of 1998. The station is to be used for data scanning and satellite management in polar orbits, and since April it has lit the first satellite owned by NASA. Despite the fact that shipping is struggling with poor markets, the number of Norwegian registered ships has increased by over 100 gross tons by 2.5 pst. In 1998, there has been an increase in the number of Norwegian seafarers added to ships registered in the Norwegian International Skips Register, from 1997 to 1998 at 18pst. The number of seafarers added to ships registered in the Norwegian Ordinary Ship Register has increased by 9 pst. from 1997 to 1998. Shipping is also important for transport work in Norway. The maritime transport was 23 pst. of total domestic freight transport in 1998. In the spring of 1999, the Storting passed a new law on public procurement. The new legislation, together with a new regulation, will provide a simpler regulatory framework and lead to greater efficiency and less costs. Public procurement in 1997 amounted to about 205 billion kroner. In May 1999, the EFTA Court ruled that the Norwegian scheme of geographically differentiated payroll includes State aid under the EEA Agreement. The ESA Decision on changes in the system of differentiated employer charges is followed up. The number of guest house days at hotels and other accommodation places increased by 4 pst in 1998. Of this increase, foreign guests accounted for about one third. During the first five months of 1999, foreign visitors increased by 5 pst. The total travel currency income in 1998 was approximately DKK 16.7 billion, about 6 pst. higher than in 1997. Last year, domestic passenger transport amounted to 60 billion passenger kilometres, which is an increase of 1.1 pst. from 1997. The passenger car had about 77 pst. of passenger traffic. The total freight was 41.6 billion tonne-kilometres last year, of which 28.5 pst. on the road. The increase from 1997 was 6.7 pst. Domestic road traffic work last year was 33.2 billion vehicle kilometres, which is an increase of 3.2 pst. from 1997. Investments in national road installations amounted to 6 420 million. Tolls included. The country got 104 km of new highways. The sale of new and used imported cars went down last year with 7.5 pst. By the end of 1998, there were 2,21 million registered. cars in Norway, which represents an increase of 2 pst. from the previous year. In 1998, 12 454 people were injured or killed in road traffic, 352 of whom were killed. There's 49 more people killed than in 1997. A total of 8 people were killed in aviation accidents. No passenger by rail or added to the railway station died as a result of railway accidents in 1998. In connection with the operation of NSB BA, 7 people were killed as a result of accidents at level crossings or at the track. The amount of transport on the public network, other than the Gardermoban, measured in tonne-kilometres and passenger-kilometres, was roughly unchanged in 1998 compared to 1997. Air traffic, measured in the number of passengers domestically and externally, showed an increase of 5 pst in 1998. from 1997. In the first four months of this year, the growth in passenger numbers has been 3.7 pst. compared with the same period last year. Oslo airport Gardermoen was scheduled to be used as the main airport for Oslo and Austland in October 1998. In the post-opening period, the Flytog has had a market share of between 35 and 40 pst. by air passengers. In the context of the official opening of Rome’s sport in August 1999, capacity was increased by about 40 p.m. and travel time reduced from 33 to 19 minutes between Gardermoen and Oslo S. The surplus at the Aviation Agency was last year, 890 million. kr. There's a decrease of 12.0 pst. from 1997. It was invested for a total of 867 million. kr in the aerodrome network outside the main aerodrome of Gardermoen. From July 1999, the NSB BA and the Railway Agency were separated organisationally by the fact that the two units no longer have the same managing director. The Board of Railways was terminated from the same date. That's 310 million for 1999. to investment measures in the road to facilitate the use of bank trains on Bergensbanen, Sørlandsbanen and Dovrebanen. The entry Norway BA last year had a total turnover of NOK 12 billion. The pretax result was a profit of 538 million. kr. Postbanken BA was converted into a limited liability company in June 1999. In addition, the governing bodies of the company have decided to enter into a merger between Norwegian Bank ASA and Postbanken AS. The cause is now for concessional treatment. In the telecommunications market, fixed operator defaults and number portability have been introduced from 1 June 1999. [[i.e. fixed choice of operator other than Telenor AS]] [[i.e. telephone numbers can be moved between operators]] Competition-stimulating measures have also been implemented on the website by extending access to the network resources of other actors to Telenor. By the agreement to merge Telenor and Telia, the basis is to establish a strong Nordic group. The merger will provide business benefits to the company, increase competitiveness, increase ownership value and better opportunities for expansion and value creation in the international telecommunications market. The new company must be partially privatised and listed by the end of 2000. Merging and sub-privatisation do not lead to changes in the scope of imposed social obligations. The merger will take place after EU competition authorities have dealt with the matter. The State, Norway's Bondelag and Norsk Bonde- und Småbrugerlag were negotiating a new agricultural agreement during the period. The State and the Norwegian Reinbriftssamers Landsförbund agreed on a new reindeer management agreement. The agreement contains a new strategy to bring down the number of clean areas in which there is a mismatch between reindeer and grazing resources. In December, the government presented a big report on forest policy. The gross value of production from forestry and wood-using industries is close to DKK 40 billion, and wood products are exported annually for approximately DKK 15 billion. As a result of the revised veterinary agreement, there are now close to 20 surveillance programmes for diseases among live animals. New cases of the most serious animal diseases in Norway have not been identified. The number of new scrapie cases is still low, while the number of cases of infectious salmon anaemia has increased somewhat. The use of antibiotics in the farming and livestock industries is still declining. One is working on measures against the parasite gyrodactylus salaris, which is still a serious threat to the wild species. The resource situation north of 62 degrees is still good for Norwegian springing herring, but some weight for cod and haze. The solder population has come up, and it has been a small but profitable fishing this year. The herd of blue herds is still considered to be below safe biological limits. The shrimp population is considered to be within safe biological limits. The mackerel population is still at a relatively low level, but it is growing as a result of a common management strategy between Norway and the EU. The North Sea herring population has improved as a result of a multi-year management strategy that Norway and the EU are well aware of. When it comes to cod, hyss, sieving and mackerel in the North Sea, cooperation is in progress with the EU to develop management strategies for these populations. In negotiations between the State and Norway's Fiskerlag in the autumn of 1998 on the means of support for fisheries, the contracting parties were some. Wages and salaries in 1999 were mainly audited for the other years of the agreement, where the reform of continuing education and training was also the subject. The parties in the private sector have mainly agreed on new agreements through negotiation and mediation. In the public sector where the data are centrally implemented, the parties in the country were included in the negotiations. In the municipal sector, negotiations were conducted with the academics, while the results were reported with the other organisations. The Swedish broker arrived on 20 May with proposals for a solution that was accepted by the parties. In this year's discussions on the pension regulation in the social security system, there was no agreement between the government and the social security organisations. Following a proposal from the Government, Stortinget decided to increase the basic amount by NOK 1580 from 1 May 1999. The minimum pension is then NOK 84 204 per year. for one year and SEK 144,912 per year. years for married couples. In June, the State and the Municipal Council of the Central Union of Norway, together with the Norwegian Medical Association, the Norwegian Physiotherapeutic Association and the Norwegian Association of Psychologists, met with the Norwegian Medical Association on new agreements for operating grants and tariffs for the operation of private practices which have been agreed with municipalities and county municipalities as of 1 July 1999. Through the Women, Quality and Competence Project in the State, the Government is working to increase the use of the competences of women at the leadership level. [[PPS]] The first count shows that the proportion of leaders in the state sector has increased from 22 pst. in 1997 to 26 p.m. per 1 % 1 January 1999. The target is 30 pst. before 1 January 2002. In May, the government presented a proposal to simplify the legal basis for employment and unemployment. There are proposals in April for new accounting rules for refurbishment and rehabilitation money. The government has presented a major communication on a new strategy for state-owned buildings and the creation of State-owned rental buildings AS. Competition authorities carried out in 1998 a total of 214 controls to ensure compliance with the competition law and deal with 52 cases in connection with agreements or measures involving anti-competitive behaviour. In the same year, 131 applications for exemption from the ban on competition laws were dealt with and 70 of them were granted. Many exemptions were granted to stimulate competition. There were 965 cases that spelled takeover of businesses. A total of 2,586 checks were carried out on whether or not the price markings were followed, leading to 1,075 intensifications of the company. Overall, the competition authorities carried out seven price investigations this year. In order to contribute to the smooth functioning of the credit system and to strengthen the position of borrowers and consumers, a memorandum of understanding on the law on financial agreements and tasks has been presented. In order to strengthen privacy, the Government has submitted a proposal on the law on personal data. The government has put forward legislative proposals on increased opportunities to make profits and on research methods, in particular with a view to improving the effectiveness of the fight against economic and organised crime. The majority has decided to set up a complaint subject for foreign affairs. The following is to deal with all complaints about decisions in cases under the Foreign Affairs Act, which are currently being dealt with in the Ministry of Justice. The government has taken action to strengthen local coordination in order to prevent and find assistance against crime among children and young people. The government has strengthened its efforts to combat violent crime, and an action plan against forced marriage was completed in December 1998. The payments made in the individual declared following the economic liquidation of the Jewish minority during the Second World War have begun. The foundation of an own building for the Sametinget in Karasjok was laid down on 2 June. The place that Sametinget has in society is constantly strengthened and developed by the transfer of responsibility for the management of schemes and actions targeting the Sami target groups. Since 1999, the merger has been allowed to take place in one post and is thus given an independent responsibility for the prioritisation of resources within its own budget framework. The Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of National Minorities has been ratified. In the last six months of 1998 and so far in 1999, many asylum seekers have come to Norway in comparison with 1994-97. The instigation of asylum seekers is directly linked to the world situation. The main weight of asylum seekers in the last year has come from Iraq, Yugoslavia and Somalia. Norway has submitted its 15th report to the United Nations Committee on Racial Discrimination, which shows that the scale of racist and discriminatory events has declined. The use of phthalate in toys and a number of infant products have been banned. Phtalate is a chemical which may be carcinogenic and harmful for reproduction. In the management of the large predators, the government has placed great emphasis on anti-conflict measures and close contact with local authorities and other parties. Permits have been granted to trap animals that have caused extensive damage to buff or tamrein. In addition, licence hunting for you and ordinary hunting for gaupe has been carried out. Permits for damage prevention, conversion and stock monitoring have increased monthly in the last few years. There are trials in progress with the delegation of power to the local level. A proposal for a law on changes in wildlife law, such as: provide legal cover for the right to take up prey; it is attached in the Stortinget. More than 120 municipalities have joined the Fredrikstad Declaration on Local Agenda 21. For the planning of municipalities, there will be increased commitment to local mobilization and participation in the development of local communities in a sustainable direction. The government has provided a major communication on the protection and use of coastal zones. The communication discusses the relationship between protection interests and the activities of the coastal zone fishing industry. A proposal for regulating the use of sharps shooters has been submitted. The government has also presented a legislative proposal on cultural heritage change, which will help to strengthen the protection of valuable cultural memories. A public selection to figure out goals, strategies and tools within the cultural memory management is named by the Government. In the autumn of 1998, the Government announced a selection to deal with a national greenhouse gas allowance system. In order to ensure that the allowance system is developed in active dialogue with the social interests to which it relates, a wide-ranging reference group of representatives of, among others, has been appointed. employment, business and environmental protection organisations. The selection shall be submitted before the end of the year. Temporary bans have been introduced on the re-establishment and extension of major purchasing centres outside central parts of cities and agglomerations. A division in the State Maps, which has built up a unique competence in the production, distribution and management of authorised electronic navigational charts, is distinguished as a state limited liability company ECC [[Electronic Chart Centre]] The government has strengthened its efforts to ensure greater participation and impact of young people on social development through the establishment of the Youth Democracy Forum. The Government launched its Development Programme in 1998 to strengthen the growth environment. The aim is to strengthen and further develop the local growth environment through broad cooperation between public and voluntary forces. A hearing note has been prepared with proposals for changes to the Children’s Code. A public body has proposed new rules on child distribution and has proposed improvements to the mediation system under marriage law and child law. In May, the Government presented an equal opportunities policy agenda with a thorough review of developments in the field and the challenges ahead. The government has provided a big message about consumer policy and the organisation of the consumer device. 1999 is the International Age of the United Nations. The National Committee shall be chaired by the Minister of Social Affairs. The year has so far been marked by many local activities across generations. A new law on the rights and limitations and control of the use of coercive measures against individuals with mental retardation was introduced on 1 January 1999. The government has provided a comprehensive communication on the action plan for the disabled in 1998–2001. Message was discussed in the spring session. In order to follow this up, a public selection was set up to assess different strategies and instruments to promote the objective of full participation and gender equality for people with disabilities. The government presented St.meld in December 1998. No 21 for 1998-99, Responsibility and Meisting. Towards a holistic rehabilitation policy. The message draws up frameworks and strategies in the rehabilitation field, focusing on the user perspective and on rehabilitation in municipalities. The government has submitted a proposal for a new Radiation Protection Act. A public health policy statement has been submitted to the Stortinget. The government has developed a multidisciplinary plan to combat antibiotic resistance. Based on this plan, an antibiotic resistance monitoring system has been established. A national strategy for the prevention of tobacco damage has been developed. The aim of the government is to reduce tobacco use in Norway, to make children and young people smoke-free and to strengthen the protection against passive smoking. The government arrived shortly before Christmas 1998 with proposals for a new pharmacy law. The legislative proposal proposes to facilitate the establishment of new pharmacies. In order to realise the high levels of elderly care, mental health and cancer efforts, a health workforce plan has been established for the period 1998–2001. The plan includes, inter alia: grants to the local government sector on the basis of the municipal training plans. A short time ago, the odelstningsproposition on fixed arrangements for all residents of the country was submitted to the Stortinget. A proposal is made here to relocate the scheme through new public health services agencies and to introduce it from January 2001. At the request of Stortinget, a selection was set up to deal with different aspects of alternative medicine. The distribution was carried out at the turn of the year and has been out on the ears. The training law applicable to primary and continuing training went into effect in August this year. The government has provided a big message about the primary language training in primary school. Attention is paid to the close relationship between the parent language training and the rest of the training. The paper on continuing training, which gives a summary and status after the first four years of Reform 94, was produced in spring. Based on the evaluation, the Government sees the need to improve the differentiation and professional correction of training. Work has been started to assess the need for further training for adults. The Government-appointed Forum for the Development of Competences in May. The Forum is composed of representatives of the social partners, central education providers and 10 departments and will be an important venue for further efforts to implement the reform of competences. There is also a public selection to assess training which is not covered by the Education Act, the Higher Education Act or the Private High School Act. [[intermediate level]] With effect from 1 July 1999, customers in the Staten Lending Fund for Education may bind interest on the study loan. Of the 320,000 customers in the Loan Fund who were offered a fixed rate contract, more than 210,000 have fixed interest rates. A selection has been drawn up to review the funding rules of education through the State Lending Fund for Education. The selection shall be submitted before 1 November 1999. The government has further reduced a public selection to assess the need for changes in the university and higher education sectors after 2000. The selection, which has representatives from different areas of society, has been asked to pay particular attention to quality promotions, both in the field of education and research. In 1998, 685 people received their doctorate from Norwegian universities and scientific colleges. There's 60 more than in 1997. 32 pst. Of those who took the doctorate, women. Medical and scientific basic research into the budget of the Norwegian Research Council has been strengthened in 1999. The basics of regional research institutes have increased monthly in 1999. A selection to assess measures to promote research in enterprises and increase private funding for research was identified in spring and will be presented by March 2000. The government has appointed a Norwegian Technology Council for the period. The main task of the Council is to provide information on the possibilities and consequences of new technologies, both for society and for individual citizens. There is also a public selection to address the legal, organisational and economic aspects of baptismal training in the Norwegian Church. The selection shall be submitted by 1 September 2000. A new law on architects with regulations took effect on 1 January 1999. From 1 January 1999, the National Library came into operation as a single institution by transferring the national library functions of the University of Oslo to the National Library. The Storting has joined in the submission of the Government to ban advertising for political parties and for television life views and to allow such advertising on radio. Proposals have been made for tightening the rules on sponsoring broadcasting programmes and for the preparation of the framework for the Norwegian national broadcasting activities. In accordance with the wishes of Stortingen, a selection of its own has been set down to assess the pressure support in the light of all relevant framework conditions. The loan granted to thousands of years in the municipalities is divided into equal amounts – NOK 119 500 – for each municipality. National football facilities and ski flights that satisfy both sport and social concerns are selected. In 1999, that part of the surplus in Norwegian Typing AS that went for sports was 667 million. kr. Of that, 365.2 million. SEK set off for sports facilities, 267,8 million. to the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic Committee and 33,9 million. kr for other sport purposes. On behalf of Stortingen, the President received the documents read and stated: Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness! That's 144. Storting, as your Majesty has opened up today, goes to his responsible work at a time when the world is still marked by several serious conflicts. In Kosovo, the first, but hopefully worst, chapter of the tragedy has been completed. Of course, the participation of Norwegian soldiers in the difficult task of the KFOR force is what makes us follow the development of special vigilance. The situation in the Balkans is explosive and poses major challenges to the international community. The same is true in East Timor, where the population has also suffered inconceivable suffering. Furthermore, the situation in the Caucasus gives cause for deep concern. It is therefore important that we now give high priority to the work of peace, human rights and reconciliation between the peoples of the world at the dawn of a new millennium. In my speech at the opening of the Storting in 1995, I stated that the fight for peace is a continuing process, which still needs to be won again, and that this struggle will hardly succeed as long as people live in unworthy conditions. The Trontals carry bids for continued strong Norwegian involvement in this area. Another important challenge that we face on a continuous basis is the work on global environmental problems. As in other areas, the use of the product may be subject to disagreement, but most of us will be able to agree on the objectives. The long-term benefits of work cannot be questioned. The dramatic reduction in sulphur falls over South Norway is an example of its utility. Work on maintaining employment will be at the heart of Storting's work in the coming year. The challenges range from securing a future for the yard industry to structural changes in banking and insurance, reviewing the management system of our oil and gas resources and ensuring the sustainable development of primary industries. Further follow-up to health and care activities will require considerable demands, as will work on quality development in schools, education and research. Unfortunately, the fight against organised crime and violent and winning crimes will still require much of our attention. An important question that I expect the Storting to engage in is how we can stimulate a broader interest in and participation in political activities. The low turnout of the harvest gives rise to serious concern. In its ultimate consequence, it is the basis of our popular government that is at stake. Of course, when dealing with individual cases, there will be different views among representatives on the most appropriate measures to meet the challenges of a new century/century. Dissemination is a health issue of democracy and an essential factor in a society that wants popular development. I feel confident that the work of the Great Britain will benefit people and countries and, in line with our best traditions, contribute to a positive development for people in those parts of the world where strife, oppression and distress prevail. In the hope that the representatives will do their utmost to solve the many and large tasks ahead of us, we gather in the old desire: God preserve the King and the homeland! The other members of the Storting replaced this desire, and all those present then sang the first verse of the federal song, «Yes, we love». His Majesty the King, Her Majesty the Queen, and His Royal Highness The Crown Prince then left the staging room, accompanied by the deputation that had worked at the reception.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-02.ana.ud220e492	The President will propose that the speech of His Majesty the King and the report on the state and government of the kingdom be interpreted for consideration in a later meeting – and consider it adopted.
