ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e29	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e34	I suggest Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e39	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e58	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Lars Sponheim State Council Peter Angelsen State Council Odd Einar Dørum The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the notified persons, wish to ask themselves the main questions are asked. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative, Inge Myrvoll.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e77	I have a question for Minister of Fisheries Angelsen. According to documentation from the Department, there is an operational stability on first-stage and electronic systems of 99,7 pst. Last week there were some media projections on the safety of fires and lights, etc., where it was claimed that there was no level of 99,7 pst. and that the breakdown of the lighting and lighting system along the coast was under-reported. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e84	It is true, as the representative Myrvoll says, that reports of a stoppage have been produced at part of the coastal fire installation. With regard to the report referred to, it is something back in time. It will always be that the Coastal Works cannot at any time have a full overview of the thousands of fireworks installed on the coast, without reports coming from the seafarers. It is also true that many of the fireworks installations are located in fairways that are not so often used. Improvements to reporting procedures at all installations have been proposed by the Coastal Office, so that it can be reported more quickly that some lights may be out of operation. It is probably true that the installations you have may not have been fully reported. But we have no indication that it leads to the correctness that it has been attempted to keep some of the reports that have come in.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e91	This is quite serious, because very high standards of operational stability are required – 99.8 pst. on an annual basis. This has to do with the safety and the risk of accidents, as there is a lot of transportation along the coast. And it's not only security for those who walk along the coast it's all about, but also the environment and that kind of perspective. If that's how you really don't know, when you write a number of 99.7 pst. – almost what is the goal – and it turns out that you really don’t have knowledge of it, it’s a pretty serious thing. It is amazing that the department then does not draw attention to the fact that they have a little satisfactory material when they report on this, and that they really do not have an overview of them when the objective that has been set – a goal that I expect the establishment to agree with – is to be achieved. I hope then that this very quickly comes really into system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e100	I can assure the representative of Myrvoll that it is a secure system in all of this. But I assume that there must be an understanding that it is not always so easy to say when a candle goes out, when it is outside of all colors. It's only when it's discovered by someone that it's off, that you can report it. So there will always be some uncertainty when the Coastal Works can report to the seafarers that the lamp in question is inoperative. We have had a meeting with the Coastal Works, where the Coastal Works have explained that they will intensify their efforts to get better reporting. But it will always be that the seafarers have a maritime responsibility to ensure their safety. There will be no problem for a navigator to discover that a beacon has been switched off, and then it is his duty to make the necessary arrangements for the safety of the ship.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e105	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e108	Looking up at the VG yesterday, you can almost get some kind of impression that the Government wants some kind of witch hunt in public administration and in public governments and advice on people who have a social democratic background. State Council Sponheim is, for example, quoted as follows: ‘Who are the pure party people here, who has got a political leg to rub on?’ I would like to ask Sponheim State Council if he is aware that such general statements shed light on a long group of people of suspicion, unspecified – without any specific, and without any specific circumstances. Is the Council aware that he can thus do many people wrong with a serious social exposure?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e120	I would strongly distance myself from the fact that the Government is somehow going to pursue witchcraft against any of the different political colors. This government makes its appointments in different contexts to the best of its discretion. This is summed up by a newspaper, and you think you could read a pattern out of it. It is probably not so unnatural since we have a government other than the Workers' Party, with a different contact network, that we consider some things differently. But it's easy to see from the nominations made by this government, that here there are a number of people also from social democracy who are appointed, simply because they are ‘qualified people’, which I'm also quoted in the same VG statement. It is obvious that capable people who we need to use in state apparatus, in state corporations, governments, selections, etc. come from all parties, and it will also come out of the appointments made by the Government. In the time I have been the Council of State, there are appointed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade 60-70 new people in addition to all those who have been re-appointed, and one will find that here are the appointments of people who have probably anchored in most parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e126	There is no one here who has affected the Government's right of appointment. But I want to ask Sponheim directly whether his answer is such as to understand that he takes a distance from the impression created by yesterday's VG, that the Government suspects a number of people in the administration, in public governments and advice to run party political errands and not do the job they're appointed to do, and whether the Government can confirm that behind his general statements there is no hiding any accusations against special people in the administration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e133	I want to underline what the representative Thoresen now says, that the government has a right to appoint. We do that at best, and we're busy picking out the best people. And where it's natural to make replacements, whether it's people who have been sitting for a long time and who you want to replace, or for other reasons it's the desire to put together a board or selection differently, the government does it, to get the best possible composition. There are no systematic batch evaluations behind what is done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e138	There will be follow-up questions – Jørgen Kosmo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e141	When we see the number of state councils that have spoken out in yesterday's World Times and also today, I have to allow myself to say that I have difficulty understanding the answer Sponheim gave to the representative Thoresen. This is a continuous boost of suspicion against people who have thought of a social democratic idea and should therefore be sent out by all public administrations. Isn't it time now, Councillor Sponheim, instead of going out with duped and badly hidden intentions, to make an attempt to name those people in the public administration whom the Council of State believes counter to his government's political intentions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e146	As I said in my reply to the representative Thoresen, it doesn't correspond to the reality that we're dealing with any kind of replacement, we're out to pick out the best people. That this sometimes leads to a person with a previous connection to the Workers' Party being replaced with a person who may not have any political connection, but is only very capable, I don't think I should feel that problematic; there is no other, hidden intentions in it. I think that representatives of the Workers' Party may also have to admit that we have had a change of government. A change of government is also a change of people who have other contact networks and other assessments of things. And that there's a consequence in the appointment, shouldn't be surprising to anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e153	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e156	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. Consequences of persistently low oil prices occupy many, not least in offshore and oil-related industries. Media has recently helped to create a rather bleak picture of the situation, which in itself can help to reinforce a crisis-affected impression of the situation for Norwegian business. Does the Minister for Economic Affairs share such a negative description of the situation for Norwegian business? If not, what will the Minister of Industry do to give a more nuanced picture of the situation of Norwegian industry and put it into business policy contexts?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e165	Yes, I share the view that there are some aspects of particular industries and industries that are worrying, and that of course concerns the Minister of Industry and the Government. It's a little strange that while we get these slightly alarming signals from individual businesses and industries, we see that it doesn't look like macro numbers – the unemployment figures have so far this winter had a development that's to live with, with an unemployment rate after the last figures for February of just 2.7 – 2.8 pst. But at the same time, we see the traces of a development in certain industries that scare us. It shows very clearly that if we are not as oil dependent as many people would think, we have indirectly become it because for many years it has been a wish from the entire political environment to target very much of the industry's activity against the market that Norwegian oil companies represent, and this makes vulnerability very high. It's the government's busy, and it wants the government to take hold of. In the short term, we did so through the proposal under consideration in Stortinget, to increase the yard support for shipbuilding until the legal 9 pst. The government has announced that it will return to the revised national budget with a review of the industries with which we now see there are significant problems. What can be the current measures? Among other things, representatives of the Government are going to have a meeting with this industry already on Friday where we are going to review the whole situation, and where we are going to discuss current actions based on such industry itself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e172	In my opinion, the answer was not very satisfactory with respect to the question. My supplementary question would then be: Does the Council of State consider the picture to be correct, or does the Council of State believe that the picture should be adjusted more according to the correct situation? And another additional question in this context may be: Does the Council of State think that the information base on which the Government has worked has been too poor to capture the situation that now appears to explode?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e177	Yes, ‘seemingly it seems to explode’, says the representative Røsjorde – I think it’s a bit of a situation. For the time being, in terms of unemployment rates and the ability of the labour market to capture these things, it has worked in such a way that it does not impact on the macro-digits. At the same time, we get these ominous signals from the individual industries, especially the yard industry – both those who live by being subcontractors of oil companies, and those who live by building ordinary ships. It takes the government seriously. We have already shown that with our proposal. But there is still no basis for doing anything in relation to the macro image. We know that there is a inertia in the labour market. There are some fundamental health features in the Norwegian economy that may not have been there in the 1980s, because the economy is taking up some of these fluctuations in a different way, which means that the problems are not certain to hit across the country. For example, in the Oslo area, it may be expected that the labour market has a significant capacity to address these problems. But we see significant problems especially along the coast, and it takes the government seriously, as I said in my first answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e182	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e186	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. The Workers' Party and the Centre Parties have defeated the Government in demanding apprentices on behalf of the public. In the proposition that we dealt with for a short time back, the Council of State has described all the negative effects that this could have. In spite of this, the government parties have joined forces with the Workers' Party and imposed the defeat mentioned above on Sponheim. Today's Business Today. My question is: will the Council of State make the changes that the Government's parties to the Stortinget and the Workers' Party made, or will he reconsider the matter in relation to the adverse effects already demonstrated for small businesses? It is not overwhelming the small business community has been welcomed by Sponheim. Now he has a chance at my discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e195	Now it is the case that the law on public acquisitions, to which this theme relates, has recently been addressed in Odelstinget. In view of this, regulations are to be drawn up, and for these regulations there are some indications from the Stortinget which the Ministry will of course follow. It's hard for me to go into that work, other than saying that we're adding the bases they want that the population has here. The majority of the population was also concerned with the issue of regulation, in order not to make it uncompetitive for small and large enterprises to take on the social responsibility of having apprentices — nor should it be a competitive disadvantage when fighting for a public mission. At the same time, we need to draw up these rules in such a way that they are valid for the EEA. That should all the Storting do, be, and that of course the Government will follow up. But it is difficult for me to go into this, because we are now following up the Storting decision to draw up the regulations that will apply.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e202	What is certain is that these rules, if they are to be done as has been said by the Workers' Party and the government parties, will have the effect that, for example, Swedish construction companies will have an advantage over Norwegian construction companies. Many in the industry believe that there are Swedes enough to carry out these tasks. There's a pass that there's no shame in turning. And I really want to recommend in this case the Government and so far as the leader of the Left and Government parties in general to do as they did in the IT Fornebu case, they turned from the treatment we had last year to this year. I think it will serve the Norwegian business community, it will serve the Norwegian small business community. It must be a problem for Sponheim that he, as a state councillor and party leader, has a view on this matter – which is within the core area, I would think – which is totally contrary to what his own party is doing on Stortinget. My question is... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e211	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e214	Yeah, here's a lot of premises I should be meeting. Firstly, I or the Government have definitely not turned around in the IT Fornebu case, to be told, but we're going to have a broader debate on that tomorrow, so then we're going to get back to it. Otherwise, I would like to stress what I also said in my first answer, that in the follow-up to this, we need to find a way of aligning these regulations that meet the obvious, social and legitimate needs we have to ensure that it is interesting for companies to associate with apprentices, while at the same time being within a regulatory framework that will ensure that this will be EEA-valid, so that it does not lead to any competitive shifts between enterprises from countries within the EEA area. This is a work we're going to do. I think when it's in place, some of the big words used around this might go away. I think it should be possible to come up with rules that take account of these considerations, without any discrimination against small businesses. I'm pretty sure that's possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e221	There will be follow-up questions – Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e224	In fact, the majority of the population has provided the Council of State with legislation that favours foreign providers of goods and services to the public sector. We're talking about an amount of more than NOK 200 billion per year. years, and the local government sector accounts for more than half of this amount – more than 100 billion kroner are therefore provided by the local government sector in its purchases. The majority have also excluded the municipal sector from this legislation. The question to Sponheim is that, as Right-Warning against, it appears as a fact that the law is contrary to the EEA Agreement. Will the Council of State now have to reconsider its efforts to integrate the municipal sector into this law? I think maybe the Council of State should take a more offensive position on this issue if he wants to be the friend of small businesses in this context as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e231	I do not know where it has been established that it is a fact that this is contrary to the EEA rules, at least I do not think any random newspaper lookups are the evidence that should be the basis for a landfill or discussion in Stortinget about it – it is my duty to ensure that the legislation is not. And if in any way – I say it on a very general basis – that something has been done here that turns out not to be EEA-valid, it is of course my responsibility to clarify it and come back to Stortinget. I have no reason to have any opinion about it in this case. We're going to draw up the regulations, and we're going to stress that those regulations are EEA legal. Otherwise, as I have said, I underline the great extent of public procurement, and that the local government sector is not at first fanned by this law. However, significant pressure was put on the majority to ask the government to come back as soon as possible with an extension of the law to also capture municipal acquisitions below the thresholds, as it is called. And we would like to have the municipalities with us on this too – that's a point for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e238	The last follow-up question is from Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e241	I am pleased that the Council of State now determines that it wishes to have an offensive attitude in relation to caring for this important social responsibility, which has been addressed here in the Stortinget. I am now recording a pressure from those who believe that social responsibility should not be taken into account, and who see it as a problem of education, for example. to be taken into account or to prevent tax evasion. My question to the Council of State will then be: How will the Government seek to safeguard these important social interests in the preparation of the regulations, so that those who are now only interested in putting stumbling blocks here are not in a way allowed to introduce Norway as the most beautiful and naive boy in the EEA class, and by doing so put obstacles in the way of achieving important policy objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e248	Getting an overall public procurement code that ensures that everyone has the opportunity to participate on a level playing field, have a level playing field, is not just something we do because we are forced to do so because of the EEA Agreement. It's actually good for Norwegian companies, and this government wants to give everyone an equal opportunity to compete for that kind of assignment. At the same time, the majority of the population have been concerned — the Government has also been, even though we had a different approach to how to solve this issue — that a company takes on the important task of linking apprentices should not be a competitive disadvantage in the struggle to get a public job. The government did not agree to such a clause, as mentioned in a previous reply. We thought this could be solved through grant schemes and other instruments we use to make it attractive to have apprentices. The big thing wanted us to have regulations that also take care of these considerations. We're working on that now, and of course, it's going to become known how the government tackles this question. Otherwise, I would like to stress that the second important consideration, environmental considerations, has already been directly incorporated into the law. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e256	Time's up. Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e261	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. In the recent marine environment, it has been discussed that feed quotas for salmon are going to be reduced, and I have a few questions related to it. To what extent does the Minister for Fisheries believe that Norwegian farming industry can tolerate changes in the framework conditions, as this case asks for? And to what extent does the Minister for Fisheries believe that Norwegian salmon farmers should take responsibility for price developments for salmon on the world market? It is a big problem that there are not enough markets, and that not enough markets are being developed for Norwegian salmon. What does the Minister for Fisheries do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e270	For the development of markets, the maritime industry is primarily responsible for the development of markets. The legislation – export legislation – has given the industry the opportunity to levy an export tax. In the context of the salmon agreement concluded between industry and the EU and between the Norwegian Government and the EU, there is indeed a possibility to collect 3 pst. the value of exports to the Union market for marketing purposes in order to increase market share on the Union market. In the case of feed quotas, this is part of the regulatory responsibility of the Government towards the industry in order to adapt Norwegian production to exports to the Union market. In 1998, feed quotas for the current year were increased by 10 pst., taking into account the information provided by the industry on the number of fish in the sea, expected growth in 1999, and the expected development of the market. Even at this stage in 1999, it appears that the reports received last year were not entirely adequate. The growth potential of the fish in the sea was much greater, the problems in the markets have also increased, so that there were significant groupings in the farming industry that asked the Ministry to make a significant reduction in the increases in feed quotas. On the basis of this and after a total assessment of the situation, the Ministry reduced the growth of feed quotas from 1998 to 1999, from 10 pst. for 4,5-5 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e279	The Minister of Fisheries pointed out that the problems have turned up, and he is right about that, not least because it turns out that it is difficult for many Norwegian salmon exporters to sell the salmon above the minimum price. And my question is: what can the industry expect from the support of the Minister for Fisheries, in the requirement that the salmon agreement with the EU be monitored, so that everyone really has to stick to the minimum price? Is it so to understand that this important industry of Norway is so little interesting to the minister that he does not want to assist the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e286	It must be a completely wrong ending. On the part of the Ministry, we are working continuously, through our delegation in Brussels, to help the industry in the problems that individual companies face because they are not entirely able to keep to the minimum price. Some claims have been made that there is a sale outside the system that contributes to the situation that has arisen. And let me just say it this way: we have, through regulation, tightened up the rules and increased the opportunity to hit the actors that you discover doing under-sales. But there is also a passus in the salmon agreement that allows exporters over the period – i.e. the quarter – to sell by a certain percentage below the minimum price, but that they have to keep the average at the minimum price. At the end of the quarter, it may prove that some exporters are unable to raise the price high enough and are thus in trouble.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e293	There will be follow-up questions – Mimmi Beevi.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e296	I have the following additional questions for the Minister: To what extent does the Minister think that reducing feed quotas, with subsequent slaughter, could affect the market price of salmon? Would not increased slaughter lead to more fish on the market and have the opposite effect?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e301	The industry has a responsibility to maintain the salmon agreement. The individual exporter has entered into private agreements with the EU Commission in respect of the ratio related to the minimum price, so it is not a responsibility of the ministry. The Ministry has a responsibility to regulate the industry in total so that total production is in balance with what the market can take. With regard to the consequences of a reduced feed quota, feeding less is a matter for the fish, it does not necessarily have to be slaughtered. There's a big difference in the amount of feed a fish needs in the ocean. Less feed produces less growth. And it's the industry's responsibility to do a depopulation that doesn't create problems in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e308	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e311	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport Odd Einar Dørum the following question: The problems at Oslo Airport Gardermoen have long been a topic in the press. For those of us who use the airport every weekend, the problems have not diminished, rather the opposite. Last weekend it was very bad. On Friday, I left Stortinget at 5 p.m. 1 p.m. to Gardermoen and sat there until 1 p.m. 22.30 before I got flights to Trondheim. What the air passengers said around me, I can't repeat in this hall because of language usage. Because of low snowstorms, there were problems with breaking, queues for de-icing, and cancelled aircraft. This can be understood in part if there are weather problems. But the lack of flight crew, the lack of information and the shifting "gate" information should be problems that had been solved for the longest time at the country's main aerodrome. I won't mention Fornebu, but what will the Minister of Transport do with this? And what about the working environment of employees?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e320	The representative Stensaker and I have had a political dialogue on this before, and I would like to repeat, because of the concerns he and others travel, that I have asked for an evaluation of the operational conditions at Gardermoen from 8 October 1998 and until the end of February 1999, so that this can be included in the big news that I have written to the Stortinget and that will come in March, where we will then look at both the operation on the Gardermoen and the situation related to the Rome sport. I've once been to the airport to have a joint meeting with the operators, airlines and those operating the airport, to make sure that they work together and to make sure that the leaders stick their heads forward, as all the leaders are going to do, whether they're political or administrative. I'm going to have a new meeting like this early in March to make sure things develop. When something is wrong, you should do better, and I have asked for such a comprehensive report as I have now mentioned in the reply to the representative Steinsaker.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e330	I thank you for the answer, even though I had expected something more concrete in relation to solving a seemingly lasting problem. I have an additional question. In most airports, de-icing takes place at concrete sites with de-icing fluid collection. On the Gardermo, it happens on asphalt, with the risk of its dissolving, and where does it become of the de-icing fluid? What does the Minister for Transport want to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e337	There is a procedure for the treatment of deicing fluid on Gardermoen. It came in an approval from the SFT to the airport, I think it was in October last year. After it became known to me on 29 January this year that there was a risk of contamination of groundwater, I asked for an immediate report if it was confirmed. Unfortunately, it was on 4 February. Then I immediately asked for a review of all the procedures, and when I was told that there were deficiencies with them, I asked that the procedures be reviewed with a view to their being proper for both glycol and acetate. I have also asked the Swedish Aviation Agency for independent competence to look at this use of procedures in all forms of de-icing fluid. I know that it is now committed to such competence. It is such that responsibility must be exercised at all stages. One must be sure that the jobs are done. I have also been there and looked at the de-icing system and how it operates. This will be one of the themes that I address at the meeting I mentioned at the Gardermoen in March. It will also be an important topic in the report I have asked for, and that the Stortinget will receive, including in March.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e344	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e347	I will ask Angelsen the following questions: I refer you to the representative Myrvoll's question earlier about the extinguished guy and lights. In the 1999 budget, the Ministry expressed, in the context of the review of the status of the lighthouse service, that poor maintenance could threaten the reliability of lighthouses, lights and lanterns and, similarly, that parts of the coastal marking system are in severe decline. In the course of the budgetary procedure, a unanimous Committee on Transport said this was very serious. The Committee therefore requested that the Ministry facilitate as soon as possible a review of the quality of the fireworks service, preferably through the use of the external professional environment, and that this be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest in the budget for the year 2000. What has the Council of State done on the occasion of the case?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e356	We have had meetings with the Swedish Coast Guard Agency where we have gone through the situation and asked the Swedish Coast Guard Agency to promote a plan for how to get back on track for the maintenance of fireworks installations that have evolved for many years. The coastal works have been provisionally calculated to lag for approx. 60 million. kr, a significant amount in relation to the total budget for the operation of the lights. We'll go through the material when we get a full report and proposals from the Coastal Agency, and look at how we can get it into the budget for the year 2000, and what kind of plan should be put in place to re-launch it. What has so far come to light from the Coastal Works is that, as far as the technical aspects of the fireworks installations are concerned, there is, of course, also a aftermath and a need for increased maintenance and not least renewal. But perhaps the greatest aftermath lies in the physical, the building conditions associated with maintenance. Thus, the operational safety cannot be graduated downwards in the same way as the maintenance lag.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e363	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that the comment of the Committee is being followed up, and that he wants to take this seriously. I point out that the Government has said that it will show great willingness to strengthen operations and maintenance on the road side, assuming that the Council of State – as he now says – wants to follow up on the road systems along the coast. Will the Council of State, when given an overview of this, follow up on the budget for the year 2000, and not least on the national transport plan, which will be dealt with next year by the Grand Duchy, with a framework for 2002-2005?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e370	In the case of follow-up detected in relation to maintenance, there is a matter which should be followed quickly and which does not necessarily have to be seen in conjunction with the national transport plan. But of course we will look at the overall context, and I imagine that a priority needs to be given to technical installations in order to improve the safety of the coastal lights. Then you have to take a priority of the building in a order that you think is right, but to put maintenance related to the safety of the coast in the first row.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e375	There will be follow-up questions – Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e378	Articles in the press have raised questions of credibility in dealing with these issues. In its comments, the Committee suggested that consideration should be given to the possibility of using external professional environments to enter and review the quality of the fireworks service. Such use of external trade unions will provide an opportunity to have the status verified and will also be a form of revision in relation to the work carried out internally in the establishment. The Council of State has assessed this possibility of making use of external environments, for example: of the type Veritas?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e383	Let me just stress that the concrete things that have been up in the media lately are of relatively old date. In the reviews we have had with the Coastal Works, we think that the whole issue of the safety of the operation of the lighthouse is on the right track. We have no reason to doubt the credibility of the Coastal Works or the ability to do anything about the matter. I think it is necessary to link the problems that have arisen here with the lack of budgetary follow-up over previous years from government and enlargement. It is difficult to load the Coast Guard that there has not been enough money to carry out the necessary maintenance. The review we've had so far, there's no reason to doubt that the Coastal Agency is able to solve its tasks when only the funds are there. Of course, I will also consider the question that Schjøtt-Pedersen is travelling, of involving the Norwegian Veritas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e388	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e392	I have a question to the Dørum State Council. The Economic and Social Committee has given its opinion on the matter of the re-use of the land at Fornebu. The majority are in favour of a very rapid development and establishment of a knowledge and IT centre. We know that this will require large investments in transport as well. My question to the Council of State will be: are the plans for development and a knowledge and IT centre at Fornebu co-ordinated with the road and runway development plans in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e401	In the proposal submitted by the Government, it is collapsing. It has been collapsed in such a way that, as is known, the Government has put up a bidding round on land which will come in time after the treatment of the municipal sub-plan and which will come back after the impact assessment for rail systems. If Stortinget chooses a different schedule, at least one must be absolutely sure of its consequences. The information given by the Minister of Industry, which I can confirm today, is that there is now too much work being done to investigate the impact of the Fornebu rail service, because one cannot see the transport systems independently of the land use and the intensity of the use of land. In that impact assessment, it is required, inter alia, that: from the State Road Administration and the Municipality of Oslo taken with an investigation of the railway. These measures shall be applied for the first time in those days, as it stands. Then you should expect to get this on the table in May/June – or more precisely at the earliest May/June – and then this will go into Municipal Council level II for Bærum. This is the relationship with which the Storting is known, these plans are known to the Storting, and I would assume that the Storting is interested in having what comes out of these impact assessments, on the table. It is true that when a large area is developed, the transport infrastructure is linked to this. To say it briefly: things are related, even if one might wish they didn't.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e408	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I see that there is still some uncertainty about the investment needs of Fornebu. The question is: can the Council say anything about the size of transport investments? Can the Council of State say anything about a time horizon for the implementation of infrastructure development? And is it possible to say something about what this could mean for other transportation projects in the Oslo area, not to say the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e413	The representative asks a number of questions that it is completely impossible for me to answer now, firstly because some of the sizes are related to plans that have been adopted but where there is no budget money. Some of it is located in Norwegian road and road traffic plans, where the so-called west corridor is wanted, but only lies inside, as far as I know, with 600 million. kr. The cheapest version of the West Corridor, i.e. E18 under the lid from Frognerstrand to Hövik, costs DKK 3 billion, associated systems NOK 2-3 billion, double-track Skøyen–Asker, for which the Stortinget has asked to have its own forced treatment, costs a place between DKK 4 and 8 billion, depending on alternatives. In addition to this, you have the independent track investigation against Fornebu, which I have just explained to you is related to the impact assessment, which is a work in progress. It is my duty as Minister of Transport at least to do what I can for the Storting to be familiar with the sizes. So, of course, the Storting is totally sovereign to make assessments. But I have the task of making sure that things come out, and the best answers I can give on this, I can't give until the impact assessment is on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e418	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Johnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e421	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: The budget for transport was very shaved during the budgetary procedure in Stortinget. This affected large parts of the country. In the Oslo area, there has been considerable expansion in the road sector, not least against Gardermoen, and there will now be quite considerable amounts in connection with Fornebu. Does the Minister for Transport think that the transport budget we next meet is just as tight and much worse for District Norway than what we experienced now?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e430	Governments should not believe, they should know, and they should stand in for what they know. So I do not intend to believe anything about that budget that has not been dealt with. What I can say is that we per. today, with the budget for which this year has been discussed, there is a deficit in budget money in relation to flat-rate payments. Among other things, in the Oslo area of Oslo-Pack I, which is a cooperation between the Municipality of Oslo and the State, there are now only tolls involved in running the national road projects. This means that the state is buffering its share of the toll package in front of it, and of course it will come back as a requirement later in the planning period to keep the toll contract. What else you want to give money to – it happens in the annual budget. But I could say that per. Today, the appropriations are per year. Budget after, plus that we generally have it so that, for state financial reasons – which started under the Labour Party government and as my government has continued – we slow down some projects in such a way that they are directly unprofitable. We're buffering 800 million right now. kr in front of us in extra costs on road projects, for example, because we have not had sufficient budgetary frameworks. These are the naked facts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e437	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e440	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. The warning lamps flashing is an expression that has also been used in a good political context. Not least, it was regularly used by our former finance minister in the Labour Party government to illustrate the need for a tight economic policy, but perhaps it led to some common understanding here in the Stortinget. For a long time, we have also used the term ‘warning lamps flashing’ in relation to the challenges facing Norwegian business when it comes to the prognoses of unemployment that are gradually taking place. Now we see that several of the country's largest companies and corner stone companies, around the coast in particular, have alerts downboard and permits. Today's Business on Saturday is talking about 40,000 people who could lose their jobs. I am aware that the Minister of Industry was on the theme of an answer to the representative Røsjorde earlier today, but my question, which I still feel needs, is: What kind of responsibility does the Minister of Industry see him as Minister of Industry in this context? And does the Minister of Industry and the Government now have offensive policies and measures to meet this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e453	The government has a responsibility, and the Minister of Industry has a responsibility, to do what is in the power of national policy to meet a development, whose situation would be as the warning lights may indicate. Let me also, at the outset, underline to the representative, Mr Rudihagen, the need for a tight fiscal policy in this situation. We have just heard the speech of the Governor, who says that for the current year – with the first government budget that this government is solely responsible for – we have a fiscal policy that is well adapted to the economic situation. This was not the case in the previous three years, in which former finance ministers from the Workers' Party also led. That's what I think is important. But now we have a fiscal policy that is adapted to that situation. It is, as I said in a previous answer, nothing in the macro numbers right now during this winter that indicates that we have some increasing unemployment – on the contrary, the numbers have remained perhaps surprisingly low. I remember a spontaneous question hour, the last before Christmas, where this was a central theme, and I had to respond to many attacks from the Workers' Party that went on that there was a very rapid increase in these numbers. Per. In February we have not seen it – rather on the contrary. But I also see that here there are warning lights in particular companies and industries, partly because we have had the consequence of the oil price so dramatically, not only in the oil sector in particular, but for the oil industry that operates as a market, as I have said before. On the one hand, we're in a situation in the whole world's business life, if I'm going to use such a big word, where you obviously drive and regroup, think differently, prepare for global competition, which is now getting sharper, where companies sell out parts of their business in order to get bigger in narrower areas. There is a worldwide trend that is also taking place in Norway. Today, we have about the same element of foreign investment in Norway as other countries, so in a sense, we are about equal to other countries in participating in this development that increased global competition creates. But the government has a policy to meet this, and for the more specific areas we will come back to the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e460	I thank you for the answer, but I feel like we have to do something more than the police officer Bastian in Kardemmme town, that one would write down and then think it through before one did anything. Because the fact is that already in the fall there were pretty clear predictions for increased unemployment. The Directorate of Labour reflects 70,000 unemployed in the future. In the financial debate, however, Finance Minister Restad said that unemployment would probably fall by 0.1 pst. in 1999 compared to the previous year. Labour market measures were halved. My question to the Minister of Industry is therefore: Does the Government take this seriously? I challenge the Minister of Industry to the following: Will the Minister of Industry join in and return to the solidarity option, and how will he do so in the event? The father is that one is now also a little late, at least in the short term, and the next question is therefore: Will the Minister for Economic Affairs, even if it is not his department's responsibility, help to bring the labour market measures up to the level of responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e466	I'm a little surprised at this question. It is true that we had a debate on this in the autumn, and it was announced, as was said here, that unemployment was going to explode. Now a few months have passed, we have come not only through the fall, but into the new year, and unemployment figures are still surprisingly low in relation to the warning lights we see. It says something about there being a significant degree of inertia in the labour market, but we are actually so far this year below the figures set in the national budget for average unemployment for this year. This does not mean that we do not take the problems seriously, it does not mean that we do not follow this on an ongoing basis, and we come back to the revised national budget to look at the current measures. We have done something, by promoting a proposal, which is being discussed in the Rudihagen Committee, to increase the yard support. It may be if not such a large material basis, so at least an important signal to the shipowners who buy ships. The solidarity option will be repatriated, believe and hope the Government, linked to the wage settlement in ours, not least because we have managed to involve all the employee organisations and not just one.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e473	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e476	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. During the time I have been here at Stortinget and in the Committee on Transport, I have been constantly informed of serious exceedances in transport projects. There are still new large exceedances. The worst is, according to Today’s Business on Monday, the double-track on the Eastfold Railway, which is an exceedance of unimaginable DKK 1.2 billion. The cancelling received this case in 1986, and was then submitted to the development costs of 300 million kroner. kr. So it has an end price of SEK 1.56 billion. How do we politicians deal with the figures and calculations that come from the department, when there are constant miscalculations and overshootings?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e483	You have to do what the Bondevik government has to do, among other things. In order to learn from these examples, a number of departments have been asked to provide the most serious examples they could come up with. Now that is the matter for consideration. The report is partly available as the representative says, and it will of course be reviewed. But something has happened. Very strict guidelines for road development were adopted in the 1998 budget, strict guidelines for railway development have also been drawn up, so that from now on there are strict requirements for the nature of cost deviations and strict planning requirements have been imposed before a project is promoted. But those requirements did not have the same degree of stringency in the time period the representative addressed. When you look at this, it's for never to rest — constantly learning something new and seeing if you can figure out projects that crack, whether they crack on traffic or state buildings — in the Rikshospital or where it might be. You have to manage the money in a good way, and in the transport sector there has been a significant tightening and cleaning up. That is why Stortinget has received, among other things: a number of transport projects again, including: in the State budget for this year, and of course the representative Nistad knows that. But often it is that despite knowledge of significant exceedances, the Storting says: Continue! An example of that is Drammenspakket. But the will of the Storting is law, and then it continues even if the costs are significant.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e488	I thank you for your answer. I am very pleased that it will be a tightening up, and hope that it will. But to what extent do the current exceedances affect the other projects planned? Is there money taken from other projects to complete these projects on which there are now exceedances? If it is done that way, is the money calculated as a loan and returned to the other projects? Will the planned other projects be postponed only in time, or will they not be completed or started at all?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e493	This railway project is far behind in time, and it has been settled. The projects we have now, as far as I remember on the go, largely hold the frames. If they don't, it goes beyond other projects by delaying them. The Stortinget is informed of this in each individual case or in the budget proposals. On the road side, it is such that when costs increase, such as: in the case of the Drammenspakket and the Triangle Connection in Hordaland, other projects are affected. It spreads in a way that other projects are started later. One of the things I'm looking at right now is how to do it, for example. in the case of toll agreements, the State may reserve the right to bear the costs if the crack is greater than 10 pst. The triangle connection in Sunnhordland is an example of that. It's made me see if we can get to a completely different risk distribution. However, in the transport sector, unlike in many other sectors, this is spreading and affecting other measures. Sometimes I would have wanted – a little heartache – to get the extra appropriations that other sectors get, but that is life. It's hard and merciless, and you only have the money you have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e502	State Council Dørum has also asked for the floor to correct an information he provided in a previous reply.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e505	Freud played me a kiss, because I came to say that the double track was a little cheaper than the cheapest variant. I said it would cost between 4 and 8 billion dollars. Unfortunately, the cheapest is just $5.5 billion. It was probably my love for the railway that made me give an information that was in the slightest piece of work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e510	That was the answer to Gerpe Hansen. Then the time for the oral question procedure is over, and we go over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e517	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Erik Solheim to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be taken up by the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland. Question 6, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Questions 7 and 8 from the representatives of Torbjørn Andersen and Leif Lund, respectively, to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who has been removed. Questions 9 and 10 from the representatives Jon Olav Alstad and Signe Eye to the Minister for Labour and Administration, respectively, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Labour and Administration, who has been absent. Question 11, from Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister for Labour and Administration, has been withdrawn. Question 17, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Health, who has been away. Questions 18 and 19, from the representatives of Britt Hildeng and Asmund Kristoffersen, respectively, to the Minister for Health, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Questions 20-24, from the representatives of Jørn L. Stang, Leif Lund, Ågot Valle and Tor Nymo respectively to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister of Justice, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e544	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: ‘The Ministry of Culture has turned its thumb down for support for the ‘Grötass project’. This results in, among other things, fewer produced film episodes and reduced sales opportunities abroad. Can the Council of State consider reconsidering its refusal to improve the economic conditions of this popular series of children and young people, and to also look at the law, including in terms of sponsorship, in order to reduce costs?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e553	The Ministry of Culture does not even provide funds for the production of films. The Ministry has delegated all support schemes to its underlying institutions. Current aid schemes in the field of film focus on cinema productions. Projects falling within the ordinary activities of broadcasters are not supported. The production of television series falls outside the established support schemes. The Fantasy factory has applied for aid for production from the Ministry of State aid managers and has received a refusal from all of them. The representative of Bredvold claims that a refusal from the ministry will lead to reduced sales opportunities abroad. The most common form of financing for television production is either the pre-sale of viewing rights for the programme to a broadcaster, or an agreement for co-production with a broadcaster or another producer for co-financing of production. I can't see that the lack of state support for the project would make production less attractive to foreign broadcasters. With regard to the question of reviewing the law, in particular with regard to the rules on sponsorship of children's programmes, I would like to refer to the answer I gave to the representative Rui in the Question Time last April on precisely schemes for support for children's programmes produced on video and the legislation on sponsorship of television programmes for children and young people. I pointed out here that the regulations of the Broadcasting Act provide that children’s and young people’s programmes cannot be sponsored by businesses that aim to do business. This is consistent with the Government's policy. It is claimed that the rules make it more difficult to finance the production of television programmes for children and young people. However, I would like to stress that the purpose of this restriction is to protect children and young people from commercial influences. The government considers it important to maintain this principle and does not consider it appropriate to amend the current legislation on the sponsorship of programmes for children and young people. I point out that the ban is not absolute. Voluntary organisations and others not primarily engaged in business activities could sponsor programmes for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e569	I thank the Council of State for the answer, although it was negative in terms of the content itself. The children’s film ‘Gröttass’ is a series that takes care of Norwegian traditions and culture in a very good way – it shows life on a farm, its activities, joys and dangers. The series takes care not only of children’s interests but also of the whole family’s interests. Measurements such as: shows that in the 14-25 age group, ‘Gröttass’ is number five of the most widely seen programmes. Taking into account the relatively small amount of support this project needs, and at the same time looking at the large amount of money that some Norwegian films receive — and which is seen only by a handful of people — one can wonder what assessments are behind. Does the Council not see that this will be a very good investment in particular for children and young people? Unlike a lot of other production, with completely different trends, with bats and extraterrestrial beings and shrieks and shrieks, ‘Gröttass’ will be an alternative with calmness around it. In addition, you are entertained at the same time as you learn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e580	I have previously been confronted by questions in the Question Time with the ‘Gråtass’ phenomenon and the old ‘Ferguson’ figure. After that, I have had the opportunity to look at the programme and can agree that this is positive. Of course, it is fine if that type of production can be supported. Now, however, the institutions under the Ministry of Culture have rejected the application. We have an application lying down, but it's a well-known fact that we from the Ministry of Culture don't have any special means to support this kind of project. We want to send it to a couple of other departments, but as I see it, the support schemes we have for the production of programmes for children and young people are quite comprehensive and good. When in those institutions there is no room for 'Grötass', I have to take note of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e587	I could otherwise mention that the series had been recorded by foreign companies, the strict Norwegian sponsorship rules would not be a brake block. Otherwise, four sites have been applied for, all with rejection, namely the Norwegian Cassette Tax Fund four times, the Norwegian Film Institute, the AV fund, where there was a requirement for distribution to the cinema, i.e. film, and Nordic Film and TV funds – with rejection there as well. Otherwise, I have to say that the price per NRK. minute sending time is too low. Can the Council of State imagine increasing this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e596	It's probably true that Bredvold explained that support for this project has been rejected in a number of institutions. As far as the sponsorship rules are concerned, as I mentioned in my first answer, we do not want those directly linked to business to sponsor these kinds of programmes. It's especially to prevent a commercial impact. But this prohibition is not absolute, and among other things. in the case of non-governmental organisations, other schemes can be considered. As for the pricing rules that the NRK is using, and as Bredvold asked about, finally, I don't have the opportunity to explain this, because I don't know the details. But I see that with the AS model of the NRK, it's very difficult for us as a general meeting to address such a question. We have to leave that to the AS and the AS board.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e608	This question, from Erik Solheim's representative to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be raised by Hallgeir H. Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e611	I would like to ask the following questions: ‘The Minister of Foreign Affairs said in the ordinary Question Time on 10 February 1999 that Norway does not make a special arrangement for Israel when an Israeli submarine capable of taking nuclear weapons is practised in Norwegian waters. What other non-NATO countries are currently authorised to carry out such exercises, and does the Minister for Foreign Affairs believe that it is politically beneficial to make the Norwegian coast a possible exercise area for submarines from countries around the world?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e620	In the answer to the question originally asked by the representative Solheim as a follow-up question, let me first refer to my answer in the Questionnaire two weeks ago. As I said at the time, the permission to test a Dolphin submarine in Norwegian waters and to call at Marvika War Station does not imply any special arrangement for Israel. The specific request by the Israeli side was assessed in accordance with the applicable legislation, approved by the Stortinget. The examination of the application was a broad assessment and it was concluded that there was a basis for granting an authorisation. Corresponding treatment will have to be done if an enquiry is to be made from another country outside NATO. Regulation on access of foreign military vessels and aircraft to Norwegian territory under peace conditions was amended in 1997. The new regulation provides for access to activities of the kind covered by this regulation, subject to authorisation by the Norwegian authorities. Since the entry into force of the new regulation, applications for calls for vessels from other countries outside NATO for similar exercises have not been made. It is therefore not possible for me now to decide on any other applications without knowing the details. In this context, let me also make it clear that I said in the Questionnaire on 10 February that we assume that the submarine is of a conventional type.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e633	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer. I would still like to challenge him to be more precise when it comes to nationality. In principle, one cannot reject, for example: Russian submarines, if they were to apply for practice in Norwegian waters. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister to confirm it. I also want a guarantee from the Foreign Minister that these submarines do not carry nuclear weapons. We don't want that risk in Norwegian waters. Can the Foreign Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e642	As I said in my answer, according to the regulations that now apply, and that Stortinget has approved, there is no automatic in saying no. So we have an access to say yes. That of course does not mean that we cannot reject submarines from countries that are not members of NATO. But that means we have to review this on a case-by-case basis and make an assessment, and of course we will. Regarding the second part of the question, I said that we assume that these are conventional submarines.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e649	I then interpret the foreign minister so that he assesses this on a case-by-case basis. He's figured out that Israel is so good and so good that they're going to practice here. But then he wants to have a different principle and make other assessments based on which country he's looking for. This has to be reasonably complicated. I just want to ask concretely: if Russian powers were to seek, on what basis could one reject them?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e654	Now it is not so unusual that you have to make a case-to-case assessment, and we will do so here. In my first answer, I said, ‘Equal treatment would have to be provided if an enquiry were to be made from another country outside NATO. Regulation on access of foreign military vessels and aircraft to Norwegian territory under peace conditions was amended in 1997. The new regulation provides for access to activities of the kind covered by this regulation, subject to authorisation by the Norwegian authorities.’;» To repeat what I said, the Norwegian authorities will assess on a case-by-case basis whether you want to give access to the type of activity.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e669	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘EU Directive on the patent protection of biotechnological inventions’ is controversial, not only in Norway but also in the EU. [[Patents Directive]] The Dutch and Italian Governments filed an appeal against the Directive before the European Court of Justice because it is considered to be contrary to the Convention on Biological Diversity. Like EU countries, Norway has the opportunity through the EEA Agreement to support the complaint within 3 months of its publication. That period shall expire on 5 March 1999. Does the Government take advantage of this opportunity?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e678	I hope and believe that the representative of Langeland will be a little more satisfied with my answer to this question than with what he got on the question he asked on behalf of the representative of Solheim. It is true, as the representative of Langeland points out, that on 19 October last, the Netherlands appealed to the European Court of Justice for the protection of biotechnological inventions (the so-called Patent Directive). The Netherlands considers that the Directive is contrary to EU law and has also promoted relations with international agreements in this area, including: the Convention on Biological Diversity. We are also aware that Italy is preparing an article in support of the Dutch view. By virtue of the EEA Agreement, Norway has the right to submit a written statement on the matter. The last time limit for Norway to submit such an application to the European Court of Justice is 19 March. As I said in my reply to Mr Dale's interpellation in the United Kingdom on 15 May last year, the directive, as it is now available, is contrary to the views of the Government. The possible implementation of the Directive in Norwegian law would, after all, also be contrary to Storting’s view on the matter. On this basis, the Government has therefore decided to submit a written submission in support of the case to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e691	The Foreign Minister is quite right that the representative of Langeland is satisfied with this answer. There is a lack of this SV from the Government – an offensive attitude towards EU issues. Very often, a government looks at what the Labour Party and Right say, and then they do exactly that. In this case, a slightly more offensive line is selected. This is what we want from the EU Government, namely that it takes action on the issues that are important, not least on the environmental side. The challenge for the Government is then: Will one follow a slightly more offensive line in EU questions in the future by actively entering and trying to influence the system in the direction that SV and the government of my mind are correct?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e700	If SV will always be satisfied with me or the Government, I cannot promise. But I would say that the Government is following an offensive policy on EU issues. This does not mean, of course, that a veto should initially be vetoed in all cases, but that means taking into account the issues you think are difficult and trying to find a solution that is both acceptable to Norway and can affect the process in the EU. That is why Norway will support the Netherlands in this complaint, because we believe that it can also have a positive impact on the process in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e705	If there's something SV has learned, it's that you don't necessarily have to trust what people say in government statements and stuff. That's what we've got. We want to challenge the Government, and that's what we're doing today, and that's what we're going to do in the future when it comes to putting environmental considerations ahead of, for example. profit transparency. Before the commodity principle should apply in all cases. It says it in the government statement, and it's SV combined in. So we have this patent on the Life Directive, and there is a baby food directive, and there is another directive. Our challenge to the Foreign Minister and Government is just to be offensive, as one shows trends in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e712	Let me just repeat what I said to the representative Dale in the May interview last year: ‘As is now the case, this is contrary to the views of the Government. I also believe that the possible implementation of the directive in Norwegian law would be contrary to Storting's view on this issue... The Government considers that it is not relevant to liberalise patent access contrary to the view of the Storting and is prepared to stand firm on this position when the Patent Directive comes up for consideration in the EEA Committee.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e726	I have this question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘In the context of the kidnapping of Abdullah Öcalan, the Prime Minister’s statements that Turkey is a state governed by law, have been guarded against corruption among the Kurds and others who have been involved in the ongoing violations of human rights by Turkey. What will the Minister of Foreign Affairs do to press Turkey to secure a fair trial for the Kurd leader, and what initiatives will the Minister of Foreign Affairs take to ensure that the Kurdish problem can find a political solution?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e735	The attack on Kurd leader Abdullah Öcalan has attracted considerable international attention, and, like a number of other countries, Norway has demanded that Öcalan's legal case comply with Turkey's commitments, including: under the Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights. This has also been confirmed by the Prime Minister. We have made it clear that we expect a fair and open trial, that the case will be brought before an independent court that will meet the requirements of the Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights, and that Öcalan will be given access to legal aid at his own request and legal assistance for the rest. We have also reiterated Norway's principle of the use of the death penalty. These views have been addressed through contacts at political level and at the level of officials. I also assess the potential for the OSCE to make a positive contribution to the follow-up to the Öcalan case. As the OSCE President, I have discussed the issue with various parties. At the same time, I would like to stress that Norway condemns all forms of terrorism. Just as action against terrorism must be taken in the light of international rule of law and democratic standards, political demands must be promoted through political channels, not by the use of violence. The only way to find a peaceful solution to the conflict between Turks and Kurds is through dialogue. Improving social and economic conditions will be central in this context, and Norway, together with other countries, will continue to encourage such dialogue. In a previous conversation with Turkey’s current Prime Minister, Bülent Ecevit, the Prime Minister has addressed the human rights situation in the country and highlighted the importance of Turkey’s compliance with its international obligations in this area, especially with regard to relations with the Kurdish minority population. Norway has repeatedly addressed the situation of Kurds with Turkish authorities. We have called for respect for the cultural rights and identity of the Kurds, in line with their human rights obligations. The Kurds' rights as a minority were a major theme during the visit of Minister of Human Rights Hilde Frafjord Johnson to Turkey last autumn. This is also a matter that is being discussed in the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e750	I thank you for your answer. There is reason to express deep concern both about the kidnapping of the Kurd leader Öcalan and the further treatment of him. Deepest is not about Öcalan, but it is about the fate of the Kurdish people. That is why it is so important that the West's indiscriminateness and betrayal of the Kurdish people should not continue. It was a betrayal, I believe, as no Western country would accept Öcalan or evaluate the peace plan he made, nor would it discuss it with him. But then to the trial against Öcalan: the world community knows that Öcalan does not get a fair trial, and what has happened to now confirms that. However, it is important that the pressure on Turkey continues, in line with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, but that we also go even further. And then I have a question: will the Foreign Minister take the initiative to get Turkey to agree that Öcalan is being presented to an international court?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e759	We are concerned that Öcalan will receive a fair trial in connection with the trial in Turkey, and I can confirm that we have contacts, among others. through our embassy, where we also discuss this with Turkish lawyers. And that's my understanding, according to a report from our embassy, that he'll be able to choose the lawyers he wants. Foreign lawyers cannot bring cases, but they can be part of a defence team, and there will be no restriction on the number of lawyers involved in the defence. In one case before the Ankara Security Court against a female lawyer, she is assisted by 40 colleagues. I can confirm that Norway will follow up this case and make sure that we focus on it also in the further continuation, but we do not expect it to be brought before an international court.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e766	I thank you again for the answer. I can tell you that Norwegian lawyers are also well aware of both Turkey and the Kurds, who are willing to go downhill. I hope they can then get help from the Norwegian state to do so. The reason is also now to address the Kurdish question on a broad basis in order to guarantee the Kurds elementary rights as people. If not, many people are very afraid that violence and terror will be allowed to continue. And as I said earlier, the West's accident must at least not be allowed to continue. That is why it is important to put this issue on the international agenda and not just to bring it up with Turkey. I would therefore like to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he can take an initiative to launch an internationally independent investigation commission to investigate the human rights constraints and whether he will also take the initiative to launch a peace conference. It is quite in line with what the Foreign Minister said, that the way to a peaceful solution is through dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e777	I agree with Mr Valle that the Kurdish question is serious. As I also pointed out in my first answer, we have taken this up repeatedly from the Norwegian side, something the representative Valle is familiar with. At the same time, I also agree that this is a much bigger problem than what we see today, and I want to do this in particular. refer to a recent article in the International Herald Tribune that is very interesting and points to both the scale of the problem and its seriousness. How we're going to tackle it, I don't know if I'm prepared to stand up and say today, but what I can assure both the representative of Valle and the Stortinget, otherwise, is that we've already taken the initiative to look at this in a broader context. And I'll then possibly be able to come back to Stortinget, if that's desirable, and tell you a little bit about how we'll evaluate this. But we now want to look at this in a broader context, and then there are different approaches and different channels that we'll be able to use to discuss the Kurdish question in a wider context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e787	I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs – which I also think deserves commendation for putting up here between the blows in Kosovo. ‘In the spontaneous Question Time of 18 February 1998, the Minister of Foreign Affairs agreed with the Labour Party that, on a principle basis, a Norwegian citizen should take up the death penalty with the countries who practise it. What is the reason why the Government has now chosen to address blame issues in individual matters?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e796	I assume that the background to Mr Nybakk's question is that the Government recently joined an EU declaration following the execution of Sean Sellers in Oklahoma. The matter which led to the declaration has important principal aspects. Sean Sellers was 16 when the crime took place. The use of the death penalty for acts committed by persons under 18 years of age, or pregnant women, is prohibited under Article 6 of the 1966 United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights. Norway was one of the countries which in its time protested against the American reservation on the continued use of the death penalty in such cases, and it was therefore for reasons of principle natural for Norway to join an EU declaration, even if it referred to a specific case. Norwegian accession therefore does not represent a change in the Government’s attitude to how we should deal with countries that use the death penalty. We will continue the practice that has been followed until now, i.e. to raise the question on a principle basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e807	I would like to thank you for your answer. I would like to stress that on the part of the Labour Party, we have no objections to Norway joining this EU declaration. Rather, the signing by individual Councils of draftsmanship related to debt issues is the starting point for this question-time question. It is important that Norway not only protests in individual cases, but that the death penalty be raised on a principle basis, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs also stresses. I want to add – and underline as much as I can – that the death penalty is an unworthy violation of human dignity. Death penalty – or ‘capital punishment’, which in itself is a very good concept – is, in my view, totally unacceptable, regardless of the country in which it is practiced and under which regime, it is the United States, Iran, or, for that matter, Turkey, whether it is a democracy or a dictatorship. We have to look at this completely independently of both justice and guilt issues, and we have to do it whether it's black men from slumbering, young people waiting for the death penalty, or young, Christian girls who were asked about last year. I would like the Minister of Foreign Affairs to confirm that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e818	This is one of the easier tasks I have had in Stortinget, namely to confirm what the representative Nybakk now says. There is no doubt that I personally, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, but also the Government is behind this, agree with this view. I would like to point out that we still want to address this on a principle basis, bilaterally and not least multilaterally, in order to obtain as broad a support as possible for the conventions that exist: the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights and the Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights. This is what we're going to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e825	I am particularly pleased with the last thing the Foreign Minister said. We have allies like Turkey and the United States, and also Turkey as a member of the Council of Europe. It is important that we address the death penalty on a purely principle basis also to allies such as Turkey and the United States – not least in these days. In the light of the clear answers given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will I ask him the following questions: Is it right, in the light of what he says, by individual councils to sign a bulwark which, in addition to the death penalty, is concerned with guilt issues and justice systems?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e834	I myself was confronted with Amnesty's action outside of Stortinget a few weeks ago, where there was a single matter, with the invitation to sign a patch. Although I might have had a desire to sign on a personal basis, I told those who stood there that I felt that as Minister of Foreign Affairs I had other ways to do it than to sign this proposal. I referred to what we had done on a principle basis, and what I had done myself in conversations with the US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, I have other channels – and should use other channels – while at the same time fully understanding that government councils also want to be able to express personal opinions when they feel strongly about a matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e851	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Questions 7 and 8 from the representatives of Torbjørn Andersen and Leif Lund, respectively, to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e859	I will be asked the Minister for Transport, who will answer the following questions on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘More municipalities that have applied for mortgage loans for nursing homes have been informed that the loan framework in the Husbanken has already been exhausted for this year for these purposes. The house bank says that these municipalities have to borrow from other banks. These municipalities have no guarantee that they will receive the same favourable interest rates as in the House Bank when they have to borrow from other banks. Can the Council of State say whether the State will cover local government borrowing costs regardless of the terms of the interest on loans to health homes, or will it cover only the corresponding house-banking rate?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e868	All hospital and nursing home projects are dealt with by the House Bank in connection with the granting of grants. Although the Loan Framework of the House Bank has been increased by DKK 1 billion to a total of DKK 9 billion compared to last year, it would mean that the year’s loans would be used up relatively early if the House Bank were to finance all the projects for which grants are requested. This would affect borrowers who have significantly greater problems than municipalities in obtaining loans with favourable conditions in other loan institutions, including: individuals wishing to build owner-occupied dwellings and builders who want to build youth and disadvantaged rental dwellings. In addition, a loan framework applies to all loans granted by the House Bank. It is therefore not correct that the mortgage framework of the House Bank has already been exhausted. On this basis, the House Bank has invited municipalities to apply for debt financing for nursing homes and nursing homes in the Municipal Bank, possibly other financial institutions. Both Husbanken and Kommunalbanken offer different interest rates depending on the period of commitment. There may be some differences in the interest rate offers between the two banks during periods. However, over time, there is no reason to believe that the local government loan rate would be above the Husbank interest rate for some comparable offers. In the period when market interest rates were relatively stable before interest rates rose last summer, the Municipal Bank and private credit institutions were able to offer loans to municipalities at a lower interest rate than the House Bank. Very many municipalities therefore chose to finance their health home projects outside the House Bank. A large number of municipalities also chose to redeem their old loans in the House Bank during this period. The calculation of the State compensation subsidy to cover interest and repayments on loans is based on a series loan in the Husbanken with a maturity of 30 years, no non-deductible period and the floating interest rate of the Husbanken at any time. This applies regardless of whether the municipality has actually chosen others of the Bank's interest and repayment options or whether the loan has been raised with another lender. As already mentioned, there is no reason to believe that loans entered the Municipal Bank over time will be significantly more expensive than mortgage loans.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e877	I thank you for your answer. I would like to point out that my point is not that the municipalities will first and foremost receive a loan from the Husbank, but that they will have a guarantee that the State will act in line with the given promises that the State will cover 100 pst. the financing of this reform. Many municipalities now have plans to start construction of both nursing homes and nursing homes, including the conversion of multi-bed rooms to single rooms in the municipal hospitals. I find it rather unfortunate that government authorities have not previously clarified to the municipalities that the 1999 Husbanken framework regarding the financing of what we are talking about has not been sufficient to follow up the reform, as the Stortinget has decided. Many municipalities find it strange that they are now responding to the fact that the loan frameworks in question, which have been earmarked for this purpose, have already been used up for the first half of 1999, even though they applied at the very beginning of January. Isn't there reason to say that this is a little poorly planned by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e884	The government has dealt with the fact that municipalities have also previously seen themselves profited from borrowing elsewhere than in the House Bank, and then the key question is: Does the House Bank have control over the framework? I have explained that through the answer I have given on behalf of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. The second question is, do you know the terms, whether you borrow one place or another? I have also explained this, saying – and I would like to repeat it – that the calculation of the grant to cover both interest and repayments on loans is based on a series loan in the House Bank with a 30-year term, no non-deductible period and the House Bank's floating rate at any time. These are terms that you can take with you and assess, either against a private financial institution or against the Municipal Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e891	I thank you for your answer. In so far, perhaps some of this has been clarified, but I did not get a very specific answer as to whether it would be such that if the municipalities get lower interest rates in a bank other than the Husbank, the government will go in and cover 100 pst. of any additional costs it may have to incur for each municipality. Can the Council of State give a clear answer to that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e898	I would like to repeat what I said earlier, that compensation granted to cover interest and rebates is linked to interest and repayments on loans which are based on a series loan in the House Bank with a maturity of 30 years, no non-deductible period, and the Husbank's floating interest rate at any time. These are the conditions that apply, and these are the conditions that are known to the municipalities when they have to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e906	: I will ask a question to the Minister: «In a press release of 15 February 1999, the Ministry of the Communities and the Regional Ministry writes that it has now distributed 50 million. crowns to primary schools through an additional discretionary grant to some municipalities. What criteria has the Ministry used in allocating this money, and does the Ministry have any guarantee that the money will be used for the maintenance of primary schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e915	In this year's government budget, it was set at 50 million. kr. in additional discretionary means for municipalities with extra tight frameworks and struggling to maintain the service provision. With these means, I want to help municipalities with a weak economy have an opportunity to maintain high-risk cross-border schools. In many communities, cross-country schools may be the most important anchor fixture to maintain the settlement. We have now allocated the additional funds to the municipalities in consultation with the county and the education director in each state. The starting point for whether a municipality has received funds is whether it has a housing pattern that suggests a decentralised school offer. We've put great emphasis on the consequences for the students who would have been hit by a school drop-out. On the outskirts, the closure of a school can quickly provide students with an unreasonable school route. We've also looked at the economy of the municipality and whether it loses a lot on the loss of corporate tax. The additional funds were given as an increase in the framework transfers to municipalities. The funds are provided to strengthen the school sector in municipalities with decentralised school provision. It is therefore a clear expectation from my side that the extra funds will actually be used for this. I trust that the municipalities that are now receiving extra funds will use these in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e924	In fact, the answer is in line with what I am asking questions about – because we in the Workers' Party have been criticized for using too many earmarked funds, and my question was whether we met well enough with this appropriation to cross schools. The answer says we don't. This is put right in the framework, and it is used as an argument that there are municipalities that have lost in relation to corporate tax – the Stortinget has decided that company tax should be compensated through the taxpayer. I am therefore disappointed that this money does not hit the branch schools in a more correct way, thus limiting their closure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e929	I would like to repeat, on behalf of the Minister of Local Affairs, that the funds are distributed on the basis of the knowledge of the county and the education director of the individual counties. That's the main criterion. I have also said that I trust that the municipalities are using the money, because we are in a municipal election, where there are quite a number of people who believe that the municipalities are so tied up in every way and are met with so much detail management, that many people argue to seek municipal office. I think, as the Council of State, that on behalf of the Minister of State, like her, we must also have as our starting point confidence in a concrete challenge, namely the cross-border schools. We can't start by showing distrust by saying that we should actually have detailed control of this. Per. Today, very many people will say that there is too much detail management. This is why the Government, through the Minister of Local Affairs, has also taken the initiative to review rules to simplify them and to look at how to change the situation with too many denominations. So what the municipal minister has proposed is in line with the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e936	Now, with the answer here, I guess you let the cat out of the bag: it's a campaign. I hope then that we can at least mention the experience with the distribution of these 50 million. kr to cross-country schools in the budget for the autumn – because I think this is actually part of this government's campaign, and we're going to take it for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e943	I never want to deny it when I'm going to run a campaign, but this is about more than a campaign – it's about democracy, and it's about trust that local people's elected meetings trust. And when you know that there has been a nationwide debate on cross-border schools and that funding has been allocated to cross-border schools based on what the education director and the county officials say, to municipalities that need it as a starting point, we also have to assume that these municipalities will be able to deal with it, and that the local people's elected representatives will also be able to do it. It's my experience, based on the places in the country I know, that the local people elected are fully grown up enough to prove such trust worthy and use the money sensibly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e948	Questions 9 and 10 from Mr Alstad and Mr Eyee respectively to the Minister for Labour and Administration will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Labour and Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e954	I will be allowed to ask the following questions: ‘The Book Business Agreement is an important instrument for maintaining district bookshops and thus an important instrument for stimulating direct cultural provision in districts. Will the Council of State contribute to the continuation of this even after consideration of competition policy arguments?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e963	The business agreement for accommodation is an agreement between the Norwegian Publishers’ Association and the Norwegian Book Dealers’ Association. The agreement contains competition rules, e.g.: provisions on the fixed price for the sale of books by retailers, which must be exempt from the prohibition provisions of the Competition Act. The publishing association and the Book Dealers Association have applied to the Competition Authority for such a derogation in a letter dated 10 July 1998. whereas the supervision of competition has taken decisions in the case in which an exemption is granted under certain conditions; The central issue of the Competition Authority’s decision is that one considers that the regulation of the school housing composition of the agreement must be withdrawn from the agreement, in particular with regard to these rules on fixed prices for the sale of school books. The parties have appealed against the decision of the Competition Authority to the Ministry of Labour and Administration, which now has the case for review as an appeal case. In the proceedings of the Department, both the aspects of competition policy, regional policy and cultural policy will be considered. The industry agreement as an instrument for maintaining district bookshops and the cultural offer in the districts is consideration that will be considered. The Ministry intends to finalise the appeal before 1 April of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e976	I thank you for a thorough introduction to the book business agreement and the process around it, which I know very well from before. This is not the first time that we have had a discussion about the book industry agreement in the last few years – and it has been subject to appeal proceedings in order to obtain exemptions from the competition law. So, to be a little more precise in my question, I can ask you straight out if the Government intends to follow up on what is stated in the Waxenås statement, namely: ‘In order to ensure equal book prices and the availability of books throughout the country, a central government intends to contribute to the maintenance of the industry-wide settlement agreement.’ Will it be followed up this time, or will there be another point in the political basis of a central government from which the government will try to evade itself?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e986	The representative will, of course, be aware that when a complaint is pending, the appeal procedure is completed before the outcome is announced. And so this Council of State is going to act on behalf of the Council of State I'm responding to. I am, of course, as the Council of State I am replying to, familiar with all the sides and all the lines that are contained in the Adult Declaration. That is why I am pleased to repeat what I said at the end of my answer: in the Ministry's proceedings, both the competition policy, the regional policy and the cultural policy aspects of the case will be considered. The industry agreement as an instrument for maintaining district bookshops and the cultural offer in the districts is consideration that will be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e993	I understand that I get no clearer answer than what I have already received. That's the way the world will be until April 1. But let me assure the Minister of Transport and the other members of the Government that if you also this time, in line with the last two readings that were done when the Workers' Party had the government, chooses to place the greatest emphasis on the cultural and regional policy objectives, this government will get full support for it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1000	I will pass on the encouraging calls to the Minister of Labour and Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1008	I must be allowed to ask the Minister for Labour and Administration the following questions, which will be answered by the Minister for Transport: ‘The size of labour market measures makes it impossible to provide sufficient labour for nursing homes, schools and school leisure schemes in Oslo, both the head of the county and the city councils for the elderly and the urban areas. At the same time, Oslo has a significant unused labour resource among long-term unemployed immigrants. They need language courses and some training to fill the vacancies. What will the Council of State do with this problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1017	Within the given framework, the Oslo and Akershus labour market seat prioritises the provision of AMO courses aimed at part-time labour markets where there is a high demand for labour and many job vacancies. This includes, inter alia: that care and care courses and care assistance courses are conducted this spring in order to fill vacancies in the urban districts of Oslo. The County Labour Office of Oslo and Akershus and the Municipality of Oslo have concluded cooperation agreements on the recruitment of temporary workers to care for the elderly and the Oslo schools. On the labour market side, attention is paid to the fact that recruitment agreements will enable vulnerable job seekers to be transferred to job vacancies in urban areas. The labour market seat assists the municipality of Oslo in the recruitment of foreign nurses. For 1999, the department aims to recruit 400-500 Finnish nurses. This recruitment takes place in cooperation with the Finnish Labour Market Act. As regards the needs of municipalities of Oslo for assistants and care assistants, the Employment Act seeks to contribute to this through regular recruitment assistance. This is in addition to the involvement of temporary employment services in the care of the city’s elderly, both home-based care and institutional care. In order to meet the urban areas’ labour needs in a good way, the Oslo and Akershus network has set up its own team to serve temporary workers’ needs. From 1 January 1999, this team has transferred 404 temporary workers to the districts. Of these temporary workers, there are 246 foreign-language jobseekers. Following the assessment of the establishment, vicariates are a good gateway to working life for jobseekers who have problems getting a job. Before conveying the foreign-language jobseekers to the urban areas, the department carries out clarification and language testing. Training activities in the form of AMO courses are also being carried out to qualify immigrants for job vacancies in Oslo. By the end of January 1999, there were about 7,800 full-time workers in Oslo, of which about 2,500 were foreign-language workers. There were 730 long-term unemployed, among those who were completely unemployed. Furthermore, there were about 1 150 participants in ordinary labour market measures in Oslo at the end of January 1999. Of these, some 650 were foreign - language. This means that more than 50 pst. of the resources of ordinary labour market measures in Oslo go to foreign-language jobseekers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1034	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was a straightforward outline of what's going on in Oslo. It should just be missing that nothing is happening, but what's happening is too little. That's the problem. When there are so many long-term unemployed in Oslo, and so many of these are immigrants, the government should have a completely different perspective and completely different numbers to refer to than the state council has now come up with. We know that very little is needed to ensure that immigrants who are now long-term unemployed can enter the vacancies here in Oslo. I cannot understand that there is no willingness in the Government to give a small lift so that they can enter these vacancies. I would like to ask the Council of State: Does the Council of State think this is the responsibility of the Government, or is it the responsibility of the Municipality of Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1045	The Labour Market Act is the responsibility of the Government. But getting good solutions for municipal jobs is done in cooperation between state and local authorities. That's the way it has to be. I explained that in my reply. I did it, among others. clearly that out of 404 temporary workers, 246 are foreign-language, and out of 1 150 participants in labour market measures, 650 are foreign-language. It means that attention is given to this group. So I'd like to add that I've been working with foreign-speaking people a few years before I became the Council of State. I wish it was always so easy to get something in place. Unfortunately, in Norway we have examples of well-qualified jobseekers with a slightly different skin color than mine and a different name than mine who do not get a job even if they are very competent. That is why the government has followed up a decision to set up a centre to combat discrimination, so that we can be sure that people with skills at least get a job. One of the most unworthy of Norwegian society today is that very competent immigrants do not get a job because they have a bad name and a bad skin color.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1052	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The past of the Council of State is not unknown to me, that he has been the head of the Contact Committee between immigrants and Norwegian authorities. That's why I might have expected that even though it wasn't the right councillor I asked the question to, the council would have had a greater commitment and perhaps something more positive to come up with than the answer he now gave. We know that it is not free to have long-term unemployed. We have to spend money on unemployment benefits, and the municipality has to spend money on social assistance, so the money runs out anyway. Therefore, it becomes a paradox that there is no longer a little more to be given in terms of labour market measures or other measures, so that they are qualified for the job vacancies. We also know that if you go free for a long time – that's for immigrants like the North – you will end up in a bad mood. Then the state has a lasting problem for many decades to come. Is that the goal of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1061	Of course, my commitment is the same as that of the Minister of Administration. Of course, I am aware of the availability of many foreign-language workers and I also know that we are lacking labour in Norway. That is why the Minister of Administration has also promoted the policy that I described instead. Of course, the government wants to have all the free hands in use, to use a slogan that likes to belong to a different party than what I do, but that I just as fully think is good, and it's clear that we want to do what we can with this. Sometimes things go late. That doesn't mean we don't have the engagement. And when I marked as strongly as I did that it was often that people didn't get a job when they were competent, it was just to emphasize it. The Minister of Administration has also promoted initiatives in this area and has got criticism of it, so I don't think anyone can say that there's anything wrong with her commitment or the Government's willingness to do anything. However, I will take the initiative to take into account the points of view that have been taken, in order to look at the measures, especially in relation to this group.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1083	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1090	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «In Grenland it lives approx. 100 000 people. This should be a good passenger base for the NSB. From the turn of the year approx. every other departure with NSB from Skien and Porsgrund by bus to Sandefjord. Several times the bus has not pulled to reach Sandefjord until the train has left the station. The passengers have then been asked to wait one hour for the next train from Sandefjord. This leads to fewer trains taking the train. What does the Council of State think about the way passengers are treated by the NSB in such cases?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1099	Initially, traffic on the Westfold Railway is part of the agreement between the State and the NSB on the purchase of passenger transport services. This agreement covers 13 daily train departures between Skien and Oslo and 21 train departures between Sandefjord and Oslo, i.e. average take-offs every two hours from Ski and every hour from Sandefjord. From 10 January 1999 there is a bus set up every 2 hours between Skien and Sandefjord. This is an offer NSB has set up on its own initiative and is in reality an increase in the collective offer in Vestfold. The idea behind the so-called TrainBus offer is that the feeding by bus should lead to more people taking the train. I am concerned that the customer comes into focus also in railway operations, and that the products offered should keep what is promised. It will be in the interest of the NSB that customers are satisfied with the offer. I therefore expect the NSB to listen to any criticism from customers, and that this will be taken seriously, so that a product can be developed that is best for both the travellers and the NSB. I would also mention that the problem has been passed on to the NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1110	I get to thank the Council of State for what I see as a positive answer. I have traveled by train on the Vestfold track several times a week in the last six years and have basically only positive signals to give about it. It's always on track, to say it like that. But it is very strange that there is no correspondence between the bus and the train. Now it's like people get pissed when they have to stand at the railway station in Sandefjord and wait. It's a shame, because NSB loses customers. This should definitely respond to fairly quickly by the Council of State, so that the NSB ensures that conditions are properly addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1117	I can confirm that the NSB believes that the punctuality of the train departures should be given priority, so that customers by bus may have arrived late for the train in Sandefjord. The NSB itself considers that this type of delay in bus traffic in the event of an accident has occurred within the rush period, i.e. between 1 p.m. and 1 p.m. 05.00 and 9.00. However, during this period there are three train departures per hour from Sandefjord and thus a maximum of 20 minutes waiting for the next train. However, in order to achieve increased profitability in train operation, the NSB – as I have said – has focused on customer orientation. Therefore, the company now conducts various customer satisfaction studies with the products it offers and aims to develop them against customer requirements. The results of this type of studies with improvement targets were first presented as a customer account in addition to the NSB's 1997 annual report. I am therefore confident that the NSB will take seriously the criticism that has now been made about the TrainBus offer on the Vestfold course, and develop it for the customer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1127	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘Most enterprises of some size have a franking machine. It also happens that it is being deflected incorrectly. However, in order to get this error detection refunded, the amount must be at least NOK 110. It is not possible to collect several fault frankings in order to get over this amount. So the system that Posten Norge BA has set up for its own monopoly system takes thousands of dollars unfairly from the companies. Can the Council of State look at this, so that the scheme becomes more business-friendly?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1136	The use of Franking Machine is a credit scheme The Post offers its customers to facilitate the use of large quantities of mail. In the context of the conclusion of an agreement, the user may obtain a booklet containing the Posten’s guidelines for the use of franking machines. The point on general provisions is as follows: ‘It is important that those using the Franking Machine have received good training in operating it and that they know the Posten regulations. Error control may result in unnecessary costs for repairs, over-resistance, etc.» In the same booklet, there is also a separate point dealing with the rules relating to the reimbursement of faulty consignments. According to the Post, the system of reimbursement of error detection is very time consuming for the company, and sometimes there has been a lot of this. A levy was introduced in 1987 to reduce the number of error detections. In 1999, the fee was set at NOK 110, and the amount covers only parts of the administrative costs incurred by the Poste for the reimbursement of faulty consignments. Multiple franking pressures may be collected but not more than three days. The aim of the time limit is to avoid possible fraud. This rule has not been changed since the scheme was put into effect. I have no comments on Posten's practice in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1150	I thank you for your answer. Of course, I wasn't satisfied with that, but I can try again. I would suggest to the Minister of Transport to look at the possibility of picking up these faults and possibly delivering them every quarter or every six months. As a result, the administrative time for dealing with these problems will be reduced, and businesses will be refunded what they are legally entitled to. I look at this almost like a confiscation of money, which the company has no chance of getting away from, and it's pretty funny that it's a monopoly company that practices such a system. Had there been opportunities to have private here, this scheme would have been completely different, and would have been considered business-friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1157	I can't imagine that private people who had given a credit scheme would have done it for free. I don't think so. Then we had to face non-profit-based foundations without profit as a goal. But once you have a credit scheme, of course, it's a question of how it works best. I have explained how the Post thinks about it. The views the representative has taken up, I will nevertheless take with me, for there is always reason to ask critically about a scheme. Although with the knowledge I have today, I have no reason to propose the scheme changed, I always store such questions, because it may well be a day when I feel that it is useful to ask them further.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1162	I see this answer as positive, and thank you for that, of course. The reason I'm stressing this a little bit is, among other things. that the party from which the Minister for Transport comes has gone very high in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises. Much of what concerns small and medium-sized enterprises relates to their profitability, whether they should continue to do so. Bureaucratic arrangements were also part of the things with which not least the Left was high on the track. I therefore assume that the Minister of Transport is really going in and looking at this, because it is an irritating moment for both small and large companies in this country. If the minister could promise me to go in and not just wait until he gets the feeling for it, it would be very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1169	Of course, I have deep respect and understanding for small and medium-sized enterprises. I myself have worked in a previous part of my life in a small, voluntary organization, where I was mistreated. I had to pay for that. I can confirm that it had a behavioural therapeutic effect on me: I did not repeat it, I became very accurate. I think that being exactly in small things is also important, but I understand that it is not what the representative infected. The representative infects that despite such accuracy one might fail. Then I say that with the knowledge I have per. Today, I have no reason to change practice. But I have registered the question, and – as I said in my previous answer – I take it further.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1179	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: «The requirement on compulsory training for drivers of heavy duty vehicles § 1 applies to persons who are required to acquire driving licences for the first time in categories C, CE, D or DE. This Regulation applies only to persons residing in 13 of the counties of the country, while the other counties are exempt from compulsory smooth driving training. Despite the lack of smooth driving training, these have unlimited access to driving in all counties of the country. What will the Council of State do with this misunderstanding?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1188	I initially agree with Mr Arnesen's representative that there is a national imbalance in the requirement for smooth driving training for applicants for driving licences in heavy-duty categories. I understand that it can be seen as unfair that some parts of the country are not covered by this compulsory training scheme, while candidates elsewhere in the country are on a course even if the journey path to the track is long. However, I would like to make it clear that there is nothing to suggest that candidates who do not have a course of smooth driving pose an increased risk of accidents on the road network. I see it as necessary to provide a brief explanation of the background of the geographical demarcation that is applicable to this training requirement today. In 1993, mandatory training for heavy-duty drivers was introduced as a testing scheme in 11 counties in the southern parts of the country. In order to assess the scheme, evaluation studies have been carried out, including whether the course has an accident reduction effect. The results for the latter are available in TØI Report 334/1996. The trend in the results of this study was that the smooth course produces adverse effects on accident risk and that the course does not reduce the risk of smooth conduct. These results were highlighted to Stortinget in relation to the issue of grants for the construction of a further smooth road for heavy-duty vehicles, Nord-Norsk Trafiksenter AS in Lenvik i Troms, cf. St. pp. No 1 Appendix No 7 for 1996-97. The Ministry of Transport's recommendation was the time when a critical review of the content and future of the course was carried out before any new facility was built in Lenvik and smooth driving training was made mandatory. However, the majority of the Committee asked in the Budgetary Section. S. No 14 for the 1996-97 department come back with proposals for the necessary appropriations for the construction of the line in Lenvik. The Committee further asked the Ministry to evaluate the course structure used for smooth driving training on heavier vehicles. On this basis, the Ministry of St. Prp proposed. No 1 Appendix No 7 million for 1996-97. kr for construction of the track in Lenvik. It was considered that the scope of the training should be extended to Northern Ireland north of Salt Mountain, Troms and Finnmark, but that no further extension of the scope of such training requirements would then be undertaken until an additional assessment of the course arrangements had been made. The Road Directorate has subsequently worked in cooperation with the smooth lanes in South Norway to adjust the courses, and emphasis is placed on the need for continuous training and assessment. The Directorate of Road has prepared a report on overall assessment of driver training, including smooth driving training for heavy-duty vehicles. The report is now under assessment in the Ministry of Transport. I will come back to the question of whether compulsory smooth driving training is to be introduced for the whole country, after the ministry's assessment of the report has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1209	I thank you for your answer. As I have seen this case, people living in Hordaland, Møre and Romsdal, Sogn and Fjordane, Süd-Trøndelag, Nord-Trøndelag and parts of Nordland are exempt from the requirement for a smooth course in order to obtain a driving licence for heavier vehicles. Nevertheless, these drivers can drive without any restrictions throughout the country throughout the year. If the person resides in one of the other counties, he/she will not receive his/her licence without such a smooth driving course, even if the driving training takes place in the counties exempted from the requirement for a smooth driving course. I think this seems a little strange. And I have a concrete example that people who have gone on the course in Trøndelag, but who live in North Norway, do not get issued a certificate. What can you do to make this as fair as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1216	As I explained in my answer, the matter has a somewhat twisted history. There is no doubt that there is a right as the representative says, that there is such a misunderstanding, but history has shown that a theoretical knowledge report did not prove that a smooth driving course was necessarily positive to avoid accidents. When the former government presented this, Stortinget decided to go further with a center in the north. You did, but then you also said you should go through the whole setup, and that's actually what's going on. We are now reviewing the scheme because we have received feedback from the road authorities about driver training in general, and I say again that in that context we will also look at the smooth driving requirement, as it is now being practised. It's part of this arrangement. But I don't want to comment more on it until we in the department have finished working on the report that is now available from the Road Directorate on driving training in general and as part of this, also on smooth driving training for drivers of heavy-duty vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1223	I think there is such a misunderstanding here that we need to get a quick fix on this. What does the Council of State see as a time frame for the work now taking place in the ministry?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1228	I cannot now accurately specify the timeframe, except to say that we should do so as quickly as possible on the basis of professionally sound considerations. We have a number of road safety issues on the table in the department. Driver training is part of them. We shall bring them before the Storting in turn and in order. I have noticed the views that have been expressed, but I cannot say anything more about the timeframe today. However, driver training is important, and we're going to do it as quickly as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1238	I will be allowed to ask the following questions: ‘The new book-keeping agreement concluded and under consideration by the Government in order to obtain exemptions from competition law means that school books are generally more expensive than a purely market-driven scheme would result. Will the Council of State ensure that schemes, such as free school book loans, are put in place to prevent the bill for a sensible regional and cultural policy from being passed on to secondary school students?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1247	When it comes to the book business agreement, I see the answer to the government council Dørum gave on behalf of the government council bishop earlier today on questions from the representative Alstad. Here I will briefly refer to the following fact: After the current book business agreement between the Norwegian Publishers’ Association and the Norwegian Book Retailer’s Association, the fee for the textbooks is fixed. The two associations want there to be a fixed price for textbooks. At this point, there is nothing new in the proposal from the Norwegian Publishers' Association and the Norwegian Book Dealers' Association. The representative Alstad says that the book - industry agreement leads to a total cost of textbooks than a purely market - oriented system would have resulted in. I don't want to speed up assessments and conclusions about this here, but just show that the case is for handling in the Ministry of Labour and Administration. The representative, Alstad, asks if I want to make sure that arrangements are put in place, such as: free lending of textbooks, for students in the secondary school. I will then refer to a proposal for the loan of textbooks which was made in Document No. 8:4 for 1997-98. Int. S. No 68 for 1997-98, among others. evidenced that a loan scheme would involve a long period of use for the books, possibly increase book prices and increase public expenditure of several hundred million dollars, difficulties with new developments and a weakening of the textbook market and with the overall textbook situation for students. In my post when dealing with the proposal in Stortinget a year ago, on 20 January 1998, I said I was very satisfied with the position, and I am still standing firm at this position. The majority rejected the proposal on the lending of textbooks. I would also like to show that the training itself in secondary schools is free of charge, but textbooks and other teaching materials must obtain the students themselves. It is mandatory and continued in the new training law handled by the Stortinget just six months ago. Expenditure on textbooks is reduced by a functioning book market and the ministry is tempted to lay the groundwork for a better used book market. In circulars F-73-98 to the county councils, the municipality's central association and all the further education schools, the department has specified that schools must avoid replacing textbooks when they are not needed. It is also shown that the textbooks are approved as long as the curriculum is valid, even if a new version should be included. The Ministry is in dialogue with the Norwegian Publishing Association to influence the non-publishing of new editions of textbooks until absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1266	I thank you for your answer. If I understood the Council of State correctly, he could essentially have done a little shorter answer – simply black no to my question. He pointed out that the cost would be reduced in a second-hand book market that worked better, but it does not remove what is the issue in my question. As the state council pointed out, there will be no changes for school books in the new book business agreement. Thus, the bill for a sensible regional and cultural policy will be left to high school students, regardless of whether we have a user book market that will work better or not. The only way to avoid it, while avoiding both outdated books and the misuse of books, is to get a good school book lending scheme – a scheme that was otherwise mentioned in the budget before Christmas, where the Workers' Party had a proposal to launch such a scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1273	There is no evidence that the total cost of the book-keeping agreement is higher than the cost of the school books. The Swedish experience does not suggest that, and therefore there is a claim that cannot be substantiated. When it comes to the used book market, a number of initiatives have been taken to improve the situation. So when it comes to loans, it was treated by Stortinget in connection with a Document No. 8 proposals, as I pointed out, and then the disadvantages were considered to be greater than the benefits. I don't quite remember, but I think it was the start of a grant scheme The Labour Party had arrived in the budget before Christmas. But I take it again that I have to look up before I can say it completely safely.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1280	Governments make it a point that there is no evidence that school books are becoming more expensive. No, but the Competition Authority’s reason for refusing to grant a derogation from the Competition Act is that they consider it to be more expensive. If this is not documented, I expect that there is reason to look forward to the Government's decision regarding exemptions from the competition law for the book business agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1288	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: «According to media headlines, 118 children have been illegally taken out of osloskolen in protest against the new Christian subject of religious and life-oriented orientation. The children taken out are the children of humanetics or parents of other religions. The current situation is unsustainable in the long run, partly because it questions the existence of the subject. What does the Council of State intend to do on the occasion of the case?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1297	I would like to begin by reminding you that one of the paintings of specialized Christianism with religious and life-oriented orientation – the CRL subject – has been to gather elephants with different backgrounds of faith and life into common teaching when it comes to working on religious and ethical subjects. I am therefore, of course, very little happy that the elephant is being kept away from the teaching of the subject. Feedbacks so far show that the introduction of the CRL subject has been evenly successful in most municipalities. Some places still have a little bit of food. Not least in Oslo, where the multicultural challenges are particularly important. As a result, initiatives were also taken from my side to a meeting of the Council of Grete Horntvedt in November 1997. One of the results was the negotiating of relatively large local room for action on differentiation, among others. by opening up group divisions in parts of the subject that parents experience as problematic from their own point of view and when it concerns the priority of the subject, tasks, pace and working methods. The Municipality of Oslo found this satisfactory. The Ministry has also played an active role in ensuring that training in the subject is in accordance with the law, curriculum and Stortinget's intentions. I'll show you that, among other things. has been developed a methodological guide in the subject, has been drawn up a circular on the practice of differentiated education and limited exemptions, has been drawn up in the work plans for continuing training of teachers in the subject and has been given training by case handlers at the State Training Office. It is the municipality responsible for conducting primary school training within the framework of the legislation established by the State. There's no doubt that it's illegal to keep the elephant away from a trade, as the case here is. It can be done, among other things. means that the school cannot give students an assessment in the subject. Formally, there is a legal secret to punish parents who keep their children away from compulsory education. However, I don't want the municipalities to choose such a hard line, but instead try to keep up a constructive dialogue with parents. In my view, the findings so far show that one has been well-closed with a difficult balance between the concerns of legal, political decisions to introduce a subject that should initially be able to gather elephants from all over the world, and the care of parents' right to choose custody for their children. At the same time, the situation in Oslo shows that we still have challenges. I refer here to the Storting's intentions of evaluating the lessons of the subject, including the exercise of the right of exemption, over a three-year period. From that point of view, I would like to await that evaluation before making any further changes from the Department's side.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1310	I thank the Minister for the answer, but I have an additional question. According to the media, it's per person. Today, 118 students who are kept away from school. What can happen quickly if one does not get a clarification of this situation is that this number can increase rapidly. In my view, this subject, which is a compromise, aims to provide a common value framework for all children attending Norwegian schools, including: an important importance for integration. It's also important for the children, I think, that they feel like part of a class community. Does the Minister not believe that it is unacceptable if this situation continues? Although I have great sympathy for the answer, I missed some action in the response of the Council of State Lilletun.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1319	I share Danielsen's view of the subject's intention and important role. Sometimes action is important; sometimes it is important to get a solution that goes in the right direction and does not put conflicts on the head to increase them. If you look at last year versus this year, there's a clearly smaller number this year that's gone from teaching, than it was in the previous school year. It makes me believe that the line we have chosen in these three trial wounds, with a local action room, upgrading skills and dialogue, is still the best line. Then I'm going to try to meet the representative Danielsen's need for action in matters where there is a need for more firm grip.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1326	I thank the Council of State again for the kind response, but I will nevertheless try to get him to be a little more concrete. How long does the Council of State see that it is to be accepted that the law is being broken? How long is this talking about? My assessment is that if this goes on for a longer period of time, the very basis for the subject in the present form will be removed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1331	So the period until evaluation is three years. We are now in the second school year after the subject was introduced. Since the information referred to by the representative Danielsen was published in the media, we have had new contact with the municipality of Oslo via the director of education. Political leadership will also be in contact with political leadership in Oslo to see if there are measures that can be put in place to find a solution for those students who are now away. We're not going to be passive, but what kind of tool we're going to use, we're going to evaluate in cooperation with those responsible for primary school education.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1339	The question, addressed to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Health, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1342	My question to the Minister for Health, I now ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research to answer: ‘Is there such a point of view for the further operation of the Heart Centre, which is currently in the room at the old Rikshospital, after the Rikshospital moves to Gaustad?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1349	The heart centre is an important part of the health care provision for heart patients in Norway. There are about 700 patients operating this year. On a national basis, nearly 4000 heart operations are performed per year. years. The Centre is organised as a foundation on the basis of an agreement between Akershu County and the State. It is not included in any health plans. Over the past 10 to 15 years, we have been able to see the happy development that the frequency of serious cardiovascular diseases has decreased. It also means that the need for surgery of the heart or coronary arteries has not increased despite expanded indications by operating older patients or performing new interventions in previous surgery. Furthermore, no new increase in heart surgery is expected in the future. Heart surgery in Norway is intended to be a task for regional hospitals. All regional hospitals have therefore built up heart surgery sections which perform planned and acute operations and educational and research tasks. As a result of an increased need for heart surgery in the 1970s and 1980s, regional hospitals were unable to meet all their needs. Therefore, two stand-alone heart surgery centers were established, the Celebrating Clinic and the Heart Center. At the request of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the State Health Authority has obtained opinions from the regional hospital of the country on the need for cardiac surgery of the type performed by the Heart Centre. This assessment has not yet been completed. The need analysis will be an important premise for the further development of treatment capacity in this area. With regard to the future of the Heart Centre, it has initially been provided that all activities are to be moved out of the current national hospital area by the beginning of September of this year. It is practically possible that the Heart Centre may for some time continue to be where it is today, even beyond this time, but from 1 February 2000, large-scale construction work has been planned to start in the current national hospital area. After that time, there will be major disadvantages in the possible continuation of activities in the current premises. Several alternative positions have been discussed, including: a location in the current Revmatism Hospital. A future solution will also depend on the needs assessment currently under consideration by the Health Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1360	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The information in the answer that there should be a smaller and falling need for open heart operations in the future is alarming, and it does not match the opinions of the professional expert I have contacted in this regard. This is a matter to which I have to come back. With regard to the further operation of the Heart Centre at the Rikshospitalet, I fully agree with the Council of State that it is not possible to carry out treatment for this type of patient after the construction work with the renovation of the old Rikshospitalet has started. Of course, the Revmatism Hospital can be an alternative. What's the problem is that what's going to get a relatively large physical distance from the Rikshospital heart surgery specialities. Closeness to these has been an advantage and, in fact, a prerequisite for the successful treatment capacity per person. the date of issue. Is it not possible to consider moving the Heart Center to Gaustad?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1367	I share Mr Alvheim's view that it has been very successful the centre to which this is referred. When it comes to the different assessments of needs, there was a preliminary assessment that I also expressed on behalf of the Minister for Health, because a sample of assessments from all regional hospitals is based on both a needs analysis and a capacity analysis. At the same time, a lot of time has also looked at how to resolve the situation of the Heart Center. When it comes to whether there may be capacity on Gaustad to move the Heart Centre there, I ask the representative Alvheim to respect that I must pass it on to the Minister of Health. I don't think I can make any sense of that question. In general, I would say that we have a good experience that one of all the additional tasks that one time has added to the Rikshospitalet has had some dramatic consequences. But I will, on behalf of the Government, promise that the summons will be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1374	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I take the distance from having assigned the Rikshospital a number of unknown tasks that have had dramatic consequences – perhaps thinking about the exceedances, the delays and everything. All of these problems were known from the beginning, it's just the Storting that hasn't followed up. Number of heart operations per year. 100000 inhabitants have increased from year to year, and it continues to increase. We have the situation that today open heart surgery is also being performed on patients up to 90 years of age. We have a significant increase in the number of elderly people up to the year 2007 – 2010, so that at that time there is a need for an increase in cardiac surgery capacity in relation to the current situation. It can therefore not be possible to reduce this treatment provision, as you might get the impression in the Council’s response to me.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1383	When it applies to the changes in needs, I refer to what I said in the answer, that despite the fact that one had expanded the indications that older people now had access to surgery, it was a pleasure that there was a decrease in the cases in the general population. At the same time, it is clear that the Ministry of Health has already set in motion a thorough process to ensure that those in need of this treatment receive this treatment. When it comes to the Rikshospitalet, I don't think I'm going to go on in a short post, which is why these changes have had such consequences. It'll probably give the Storting a chance to come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1410	These questions are put to the vote. Questions 20 to 24, from the representatives of Jørn L. Stang, Leif Lund, Ågot Valle and Tor Nymo respectively to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister of Justice, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1418	I would like to ask the following questions to the Council of State Lilletun: ‘For the last few weeks, hundreds of asylum seekers have caused chaos outside the Norwegian Embassy in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. There are rumors of a dramatic change in Norwegian refugee policy. New supplies of visa application forms have been sent by express mail from Norway because, among other things, many Somalis who are temporarily staying in Ethiopia want to go to Norway. Apart from sending new application forms to the embassy, what measures have been taken by the Ministry of Justice to remedy the Norwegian Embassy in Addis Ababa?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1427	For a few weeks there have been rumors in the Somali environment in Ethiopia that some embassies, including British and Norwegian, have a green card lottery, i.e. That they show out. As a result, between 300 and 400 Somalis visited the visa mission on a daily basis during the month of January to February. The embassy has prepared written information in both Somali and English that rumors are false, and that there is no change in Norwegian immigration policy. It's not possible to say where the rumors come from. The embassy has strengthened the staffing of the visa section. This will continue as long as it is needed. The influx of applicants was somewhat decreasing last week.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1432	I thank you for your answer. It was very short, and maybe not so rich. As the Council of State said, hundreds of Somalis have been waiting for asylum outside Norway's embassy. In order to stop the rumors, the embassy has had to distribute posters and leaflets that reject the fact that it has become easier for foreigners to come to Norway, which was also the subject of the Council of State. However, there is a common perception among Somalis that a so-called ‘green card lottery’ is being organised that will grant the ‘winners’ work and residence permits and possibly later Norwegian citizenship. My question is: is it that the government's asylum policy is so unclear that it is the very cause of such rumors?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1444	In that case, the same had to be true of the English Embassy and the British Government and some other governments where the same rumor has arisen. So first of all, it applies to the English and Norwegian, but some others have had something of it. That's why I don't think it's a vague asylum policy that's the reason, and at least I can assure the representative, Stang, that there's never been any talk from this government about any 'green card lottery'. It clearly states that someone has made a gimmick or created a business of unhappy people's situation. And the fact that the current is now dipping off, is basically the government. I believe that in a very short time it will be back in normal rental, and that the concern would be unfounded.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1449	It is said from the Norwegian authorities on the occasion of the case that it is now announced that they will start returning asylum seekers to North Somalia. The authorities may do this to indicate that it is not easy for Somalis to stay in the country at all. My question is: How far have the Norwegian authorities come in this work, which is referred to in an article in the Evening Post last week?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1456	All asylum seekers are entitled to individual treatment — whether they come from Somalia or from other countries. I do not know the details of the last question that the representative raised here, so I have to ask for it to be allowed to come back to. But, as I said, the starting point is that all asylum seekers should have individual and proper treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1464	I will ask the Minister the following questions: ‘More than two years have passed since the Joint Court Committee delivered its opinion on the ‘Natural basis of Sami culture’ [[NOT 1997:4]] What has the Council of State done to continue the work of the Joint Committee in the area south of Finnmark?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1473	Following the decision of the Joint Committee in January 1997, the Chairman and a number of members have been exempted from their duties upon request. Secretaries have changed to new posts. The Joint Judicial Committee will now address an investigation into new geographical areas where there are, in part, cross-cutting interests other than those in Finnmark. This indicates changes in composition, both in local representation and in other interests. It would therefore be natural to re-nominate the entire sample and to make adjustments to the mandate with a view to the continued mission of the sample. In order to prepare the new appointment, there has been contact between the Ministry of Justice and the Sametinge. It is particularly important to identify an appropriate sample leader. This body makes great demands on the person to hold it. It is important that the leader enjoys confidence in both the Sami and the non-Samian environments, as well as that he or she must be aware of the legal issues that the investigation will raise. The Ministry of Justice is working on the matter, and I hope that the sample can be reduced again before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1482	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I hope – and it is particularly important – that this sample will be reduced again before the summer. Otherwise I agree with the Council of State in his reply to me today. I'm very happy with this, and hope we get it right before summer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1490	I have asked the Minister of Justice this question: ‘A recent African asylum seeker family was transported from Norway. One of the family members, according to several experts, had suffered torture and had clear post-traumatic injuries. This is one of several cases where asylum seekers have been tortured, but apparently not believed. Does the Council of State believe that Norway has sufficient competence to address the effects of torture, and is there clear practice to draw on expertise in this area in the hearing of asylum seekers and in the further processing of the application?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1499	I believe that Norway has sufficient medical competence on the effects of torture to handle asylum applications properly. On arrival in Norway, an asylum seeker undergoes health checks. In their asylum interview, the applicant is always asked to provide information on his health situation. He/she is also asked if they have been assaulted. If it appears that the asylum seeker has serious torture injuries, I assume that health professionals will follow up if there are grounds for doing so. Authorities receive a large number of medical statements during the examination of asylum applications. It shows that those who need it are taken care of by the health service. The medical statements are usually sent to the authorities by the applicant’s lawyer, who assists him/her in the course of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1506	I thank you for the answer, but I wanted it to be better. I was quite upset with this answer. For me, it shows that there is not enough competence in torture in the department either. It upsets me, because the central government went out on the track and announced a more humane asylum policy than the workers' party government had led to then. We welcomed that in SV. But this does not harmonize with the image of a human asylum policy. My question was about the legal certainty of asylum seekers. Experts believe that there are clear indications of torture, as in this particular case, but experts are repeatedly interrogated or not heard. In this case, the family was transported out — perhaps to a new torture. This is about being a member of something called the Muslim Brotherhood, which Amnesty can now report that one has begun to persecute again. Does this not show that there is not enough competence in torture, and that the skills we have are not used well enough?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1513	The reference that the representative Valle made went to a single point. It might in itself be interesting to exchange experiences about the assessment of a single matter based on the information you have, but in principle I don't want to deal with individual matters in a question time. A larger review shows that when there is a need for help for torture victims, they get help. It is not that someone has suffered torture, will automatically lead to suspension periods, but at the same time it is clear that there should be one of the important elements involved in the overall assessment, so things can always be done better. We've gone through all of these sides to the best of our ability, and so we think there's competence in Norway in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1520	I had not expected the Council of State to comment on a single matter, but this was one of several individual matters in which I have personally been absent, in which there have been clear indications of some gross torture, of a sexual nature, of a physical or mental nature, and where there has been no hearing. When the Council of State refers to questioning and to the competence of torture even when questioning asylum seekers, I allow myself to doubt this, because many asylum seekers report that the meeting with the Norwegian community brings back to live old torture experiences – or they suppress them, and then they come up later on in trauma. I think from that point of view, and SV believes that we should make better use of the competences we have, and also improve our skills, such as: in Denmark, where they have a centre of competence for torture. I would like to encourage the Government to assess whether we should not get to the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1529	I must have expressed myself unclear, if I should have said that the competence was present at the hearing. I said that one of the top-up cartels had many pages, and when there was a clear statement that there was torture inside the image, it was natural to draw this competence. I will take back the advice of the representative, Valle, on a centre of expertise specifically for this. Because it is clear that the representative, Mr Valle, says, that special trauma can come up again in connection with contacts with authorities, police, etc., at this stage. That's also why we're now changing the hearing system, from the police to other representatives in the UDI. I agree with Mr Valle that this is complex and difficult. But when it comes to these things, the experience has shown me that they always have two sides, and then one has to find the best solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1542	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘According to the opinions of police inspector Terje Sjøvoll of the Central Police Office, the police DNA register, which was established a year ago, is not working. The register must be able to be used to resolve serious crimes, but today only two persons are registered and the register is thus not functioning properly. This is contrary to what the Stortinget decided in 1995. What can the Council of State do to make the DNA register work as intended?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1551	After the necessary changes to the prosecution instructions for the establishment of a central DNA registry were in place in September 1997, the Ministry of Justice issued a circular in December 1997. the law enforcement officers and the prosecution authority where the new rules were described. At the same time, it was informed that registration in the DNA registry could be started from 1 January 1998. In its circular No. 2/1998 further guidance. The decision on registration is taken by the prosecution authority in accordance with the rules in force and, in the light of this, the police are taking measures to collect and send the necessary blood samples for analysis. It is a huge and complicated work that is currently being done by the police in order to clarify information for registration, and it has to be estimated that it will take some time before such a register can be implemented. However, more registrations are expected with the first. However, since it has been well one year since the register was established, I will already address the police and prosecution authorities with a request about the experience so far gained with the DNA registry. Such evaluation will clarify whether there are legislative shortcomings or weaknesses or established procedures. However, I have great faith that the DNA register will be a suitable tool in the fight against serious crime.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1558	I thank the Council of State for a positive response. But I am also familiar with the fact that, in order to give the Ministry of Justice an insight into the issue in question, a letter has been sent explaining the issue of the DNA registry, and asking for funds to be made available. I owe it to you to note that I am well aware that Kripos has been on the lat side of the waiting period they now have behind them, and I am familiar with them, besides being prepared to register manually, among other things. work on forensic procedures, developed test equipment and also planned an information campaign against police districts in order to make the possibilities of the DNA registry widely known. I think it's important now that Kripos is so well prepared, that the necessary funds are put in place, so that the DNA register can function according to what has been the intent of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1565	Of course, I agree with the representative Nymo that a two-person register can hardly be said to be a comprehensive and comprehensive register. It's in the nature of the matter. But at the same time, as the representative said, a lot of preparatory work has been done, so one is now waiting for more registrations to come in. Of course, if there are funds that are the main problem, it must be reviewed within the framework of the budget, in relation to all the necessary tasks in the justice sector. The round that we're going to have with the debt will determine if that's what we're going to have to do to get one to go.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1575	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘According to a notice in the newspaper on Thursday 11 February 1999, a murder case has been brought against a woman from the person she filed for rape before the rape case was ordered. Such practice may weaken the position of women as victims in a rape case. Will the Council of State take the initiative to amend the law at this point, for example, by giving priority to criminal matters?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1584	I assume that this question was raised by a verdict issued by the Supreme Court's Committee on Love in March last year. The court here concluded that it was not lawful to reject a case of honor brought by the alleged rapist against the offended. However, the Committee on Legal Affairs suggested that the case could be postponed under Section 17 of the Criminal Procedure Act until the criminal proceedings were finally settled. In my view, this case illustrates the conflict of interest that could arise between the perpetrator and the offended in a rape case. It is important that the legal order ensures effective protection for victims of sexual abuse. But the alleged perpetrator may also need to clean himself up for accusations of rape. This shows that there is a need to consider how the victim and the offender’s need for protection can be balanced against each other. The investigation of the sexual offence committee is currently being dealt with in the Ministry of Justice, and I am prepared to address the relationship between atrocities and rape cases in this work, which we hope will be presented to the Stortinge in the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1593	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Another dimension in this is that this woman's situation does not qualify as a publicly appointed defender. The provisions of the Criminal Procedures Act state that defenders are unnecessary in respect of criminal acts contrary to ordinary criminal proceedings. For the ordinary man and woman, it may be very difficult to understand – not to say accept – that this woman, who, according to the Newspaper of the Day, is unable to take care of her interests, who is ill and has very poor finances, should not have the right to have a lawyer appointed to defend herself. I'm not going to ask for any specific response from always kind state councillor Lilletun, but just ask him to take along the issue of whether this case is a specific case and whether it should qualify for free legal aid.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1602	As a general rule, it seems natural, in relation to the main question raised by the representative of Nymo, that a criminal case takes precedence. But this point we're going to go through thoroughly in the context of the review of the sex lawbreaker selection, and this will be presented to the Stortinget. When it comes to the last question that has been raised, there is a lot of evidence here to suggest that there may be grounds for putting the person in such a situation that he or she can handle himself or herself in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox I am pleased that the representative Nymo understands that he who answers on behalf of the Minister of Justice cannot give an adequate answer, but I of course promise the representative Nymo that I will take it with me to the Minister of Justice and ask that it be assessed in the context of the case to be brought before the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1614	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘In winter, there have been periods during which the Norwegian electricity grid has been charged to the fault point. Still increasing consumption makes this a weak part of Norwegian power supply. What does the Government do to ensure that, in periods of severe cold and high consumption, we will not have problems with the electricity supply due to a lack of capacity in the network?"
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1623	Electricity consumption has increased steadily in recent years. At the same time, a market-based power system has led to fewer investments and also an increased balance between consumption and production. In other words, we've got a tighter power balance. On the power side, developments have been similar. Such a situation means that we need to focus more on the security of supply of our power system in the years ahead than we have done in the past. A well-dimensional transmission system and a well-functioning power market are prerequisites for mastering the security of electricity supply. In general, I believe that the power prices have a function in ensuring that there is always a balance between the production and consumption of electricity. An example that is relevant in this context is that price differences may arise between day and night when power is limited, which may stimulate producers and consumers to change their behaviour. Foreign trade by force may also help to ensure effectiveness when price conditions so warrant. Statnett SF is responsible for assessing and implementing the measures deemed necessary for the exercise of system responsibilities. Statnett SF now assesses in cooperation with the NVE relationships related to the impact balance, and they have also discussed such issues with Svenska Kraftnet, who have similar responsibilities in the Swedish power grid. I am committed to maintaining security of supply both in the short and long term, and the ministry will follow up on the work on the impact balance in the future. The issue must also be seen in the light of the general energy policy. In this context, I would like to point out that the Ministry is now preparing an energy report to be submitted to the Storting in a short time, which will also affect the balance of power and security of supply in general.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1634	I'll be grateful to the Council of State for the answer. There have so far been seven cases in winter, as far as I know, where the power plants have been asked to switch from electricity to oil where possible. We may have been relatively lucky so far in winter, as there haven't been long periods of cold, but we don't know how long it takes. Now I hear the Council of State say that ‘power prices have a function’. It is such that the power price is set in the market. It must then mean that the Council of State is now opening up the possibility of levying charges in order to reduce power consumption. Another question is whether an initiative is being taken, for example: relative to industry, where there are opportunities to reduce consumption for short periods to relieve the situation when consumption is at the absolute highest.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1645	It is true that producers who have had electric boilers in operation have been told on several occasions in winter to be ready to switch to oil. It is one of the measures that Statnet is responsible for ensuring the capacity of the market. This means that Statnett is following up its system responsibilities in this area. That's what I think is important. It is true that the electricity price is set through a Nordic market, but in cases where the transmission system restricts its capacity, the power price will be more determined domestically. This means that in such a case, the power price could be different in Norway than in countries around us. I think more measures need to be taken to ensure security of supply. The influence of consumption is one important part, the ability to disconnect capacity is another. There may also be other measures that will be assessed by the Ministry, but we will come back to that in the energy communication.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1654	The answer given by the Council of State now means that the Council of State opens up to greatly increase power prices in order to reduce consumption. I also had another question in my previous post, and it was whether it was assessed the possibilities of getting the industry to reduce consumption for short periods of time. A number of melting plants that use a lot of electricity for short periods of time can turn off the capacity without having any impact on the production, but it may have a significant impact on the grid off-take. My question to the Council of State is then again whether these possibilities have been assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1661	I'm not opening for anything. I just establish that in a case where the network and the transmission capacity limit, the price formation occurs in such a way that the power price is determined nationally more than in a Nordic market. The electricity price in Norway can then be higher than in countries around us. I just affirm it as a fact, just as a consequence of the way in which price formation will then take place. As far as different measures are concerned, it is too early for me to address which ones may be relevant, but the Ministry has under consideration several possible measures that can help to ensure security of supply. There are measures affecting industry but also other areas of society. What matters to the Government is that we must not dimension our production after the few winter days we have a very high consumption. Then we'll get an oversized system that'll hardly be environmentally friendly based on the goals we've set ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1671	I have allowed myself to ask a question to the Council of State Frafjord Johnson: ‘In the spontaneous Question Time of 17 February 1999, the Council of State stressed that there was agreement between the Government and the Workers’ Party on business arrangements. This means that the Council of State will now follow the comment of the majority of the budget. S. No 3 that decoupling is not an end in itself, and that the wishes of the recipient countries must be respected by means of tenders?’ [[1998-99]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1680	For the first part of the question, I would like to point out that the Government recently launched its Strategy for Supporting Enterprise Development in the South. On page 10 of the strategy: ‘Relationship is not an objective in itself and will be assessed against the overall objective’.» If the representative Nybakk was in doubt, I can therefore confirm that I am joining the big crowd's comment on this point in the Budget indent. S. No 3 for 1998-99, which also corresponds here to the centre lot itself. The strategy for industrial development is precisely based on the observations of the majority in the Netherlands. S. No 229 for 1995-96 and, in my opinion, reflects the nuances of the last budgetary position on this issue. This applies both to the long-term cooperation of Norwegian industry with developing countries and to the ability of these countries to compete for aid contracts. In this context, the strategy recommends that a attractor of the competence of the Norwegian business community, where this responds to expressed needs in the South. This is why, among other things, it is added. provide contact forums to facilitate this in the context of long-term and predictability. In the pilot phase already under planning, possible cooperation models between the Norwegian industry and the recipient countries will already be tested. With regard to the reference of the question to ‘the need to respect the wishes of the recipient countries in the case of tenders’, this is precisely the main device of the strategy: the starting point for the design of Norwegian aid shall be the needs and aspirations of the South. This is why the strategy sets out a more comprehensive approach such as: aims to make it easier for developing countries’ own governments to pursue one good industrial policy rather than being almost forced to pursue 43 different policies. As I mentioned in the spontaneous question hour a week ago, highlighted both Innst. S. No 229 from 1995-96 and budget-inside. S. No 3 for 1998-99 the importance of increased local and regional procurement to promote industrial development in developing countries. This follows the strategy in two ways. Firstly, increasing emphasis on industrial development and conditions that create economic activity in developing countries will improve their ability to deliver products relevant to aid contracts. Secondly, we want to reduce the use of tied schemes until recently, so that we increase the opportunities of developing countries to compete on equal terms. This is done in parallel with the work in progress in the OECD/DAC on the full decoupling of all assistance to the MUL countries. The government will add up to a practice that is consistent with what we find in other driving countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1696	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and would like to emphasise initially that the Government has the full support of the Workers' Party in involving Norwegian business in a cooperation on investment in developing countries, and that the majority of what is in the submitted nutrition strategy plan is something we can join. However, both in the State Council lectures in the Export Council, when this plan was presented, and in the plan itself, the Council of State stresses that she will place all purchases on international tender, without regard to the Norwegian industry or the wishes of the recipient country, and this is justified by prices. She says that using Norwegian industry means overprice. I'm sure there's the council of state in spite of the bulk of the population. There was a nuance difference in the two remarks in the budget position in the autumn, and the majority of the population stressed very strongly that decoupling is something that we support, but not at all costs, that the wishes of the recipient country must be respected by tender, and not least that there is no need to put out any tender in the middle of a project programme when there is a Norwegian company involved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1703	I'd like to get quoted from Innst. S. No 229. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, said: «In the framework of aid cooperation»... « Norwegian funding shall be conditional upon the award of contracts to undertakings following a genuine tendering procedure.» That's the main line that's supposed to be on the base. So it might be important to take into account special circumstances in some cases. That is what we have opened up in the strategy we have put forward. Then I would like to stress that it is not such that deliveries from the Norwegian industry involve overprice. I've never said that. A distinction must be made between a tender and a binding contract. The binding of goods and services to supplies from many industrialised countries in many cases involves an overprice of between 20 pst. and 30 pst. There I have, among other things: referred to the World Bank analyses and other analyses carried out by international actors. In my lecture I used a Swedish example, not a Norwegian one, but it is related to binding and not to tenders, which are two different things.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1715	In the case of Innst. S. No 229 from June 1996, it was also the case that the majority of those who stressed the need to design business schemes to give Norwegian business the same conditions as competitors in other countries. And when I'm talking about other countries, I don't mean business in developing countries, but part of the multinational groups, who are now running off with a good deal of these contracts. I can also, just to underline, since the Council of State in the spontaneous Question Time last Wednesday referred to the representative Blankenburg, be allowed to quote what Blankenburg, among other things. said in the budget debate, that ‘we expect one to come up at a more balanced level next year’. So we're dealing with mixed credits and parallel financing. And he continued that ‘when one gets through this business cooperation strategy with the countries of the south, as the Government has warned, we can discuss it more closely and look at what arrangements we are going to have. It brings me to the next question, which I saw as a little unclear in the spontaneous question hour a week ago. It was assumed by the Labour Party that the business strategy will be discussed when we receive the next aid statement in the Storting. I would like to know if the Council of State can confirm it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1724	Finally, of course, the strategy will be presented in development policy presentation. It goes without saying that if we were to present the whole strategy, we would have to use the whole explanation. I can't promise the representative Nybakk. Now the representatives have also got the strategy in their shelves, and it should have been taken care of. To the question of what is expected next year: It is both in what I have said in talks and also in the strategy itself that the parallel funding scheme should be about 200 million. In the years to come. Compared to what has been the case in the 1990s, it is therefore at a much higher level than it has done in previous years, with the exception of 1998, so that we signal a high level. As I have interpreted the representative of Blankenborg, that means that the entire business system should be at a level that is about as laid down in the draft budget originally presented by the Government. Overall, with parallel funding and mixed credits, I would assume – without having to pre-empt the budget for the year 2000 – that there is no new drama here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1731	There are no more questions, and Case No. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-24.ana.ud1239e1740	There is no record.
