ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e54	The representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Højres Storingsgruppe on the leave of the representative Svein Ludvigsen from 14 June to 18 June in order to attend the meetings of the Nordic Councils in Copenhagen and St. Petersburg, respectively, from the representative of Are Næss on leave on 14 and 15 June in order to attend a meeting of the European Committee of the International Medicines Agency in Geneva On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For the county of Hordaland: Kurt-Arne LangelandFor the county of Troms: Elisabeth Aspaker3. Elisabeth Aspaker is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Svein Ludvigsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e104	The National Audit Office has a lot going on. It shows the annual report. Governments have undergone many changes in recent years. This, of course, has given the National Audit Office major challenges. But we have good reason to recognise that the Riksrevision is its responsibility consciously and on the level of the challenges and opportunities it faces. The National Audit Office is working on new law and instructions. This is why the Committee does not deal with matters and conditions that we would otherwise have commented on, as we will have a comprehensive and thorough debate on both more traditional audit, administrative audit and information and communication between the Stortinget and the Riksaudition at a later stage. It is important that the Stortinget is clear in its relation to the Riksrevision. However, it is also important that the Riksrevision formulates itself clearly and concretely if there are specific circumstances in which it wishes to respond. The listener may have recorded that the Committee from time to time signals views and wishes for priorities that are different from those of the Riksrevisions. Not least on this basis, I look forward to the processing of new laws and instructions. I do not rule out Stortinget becoming a better customer. It is worrying that there are high penetrations of employees in the National Audit Office. There is a tough competition for qualified employees. This is a general problem for parts of the administration and needs to be addressed on a general basis. It's also worth mentioning that our national audit has an international commitment. This includes, among other things: As a result, the INTOSAI Secretariat is established in Norway. I would also like to make a brief remark to the National Audit Office's letter to the Committee, which is attached to the opinion: The Committee does not take into account the facts mentioned, but points out that it is important that environmental audits be carried out in the same way as other audit areas and within the same administrative audit guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e125	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 3810]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e139	The National Audit Office has carried out a survey at its five largest Equations Offices and has issued a report which has been transmitted to the Stortinget. The Committee took note of the report and the Riksrevision that the transformation work in the Equation work should lead to a distortion of resource use against R & D work – and for those representatives who are unknown to this concept, it can be stated that this is about value-oriented control work aimed at tax payer groups and areas where the effect measured as a change in the taxpayer’s claim is assumed to be the greatest. We note that the Ministry of Finance and Customs believes that there is a potential for more effective and appropriate organisation of the equation management by, among other things. moving resources from management/support to R & D work. It is supported by the Committee. Otherwise, the Committee notes that the study shows that there are relatively wide variations in the share of resources used by the five study institutes for priority R & D work. The Committee points out that the Tax Directorate has a requirement of 15 pst. available resources on an annual basis by the end of the 1996-2000 strategy period shall be used for such value-oriented equation work. However, the Committee would point out that the requirement of 15 pst should be considered. may be increased because the Storting expects that a greater proportion of its resources will be used for this type of work in relation to the priority groups of taxpayers. We have also registered the State Council's remark that the Tax Directorate has just sent the Ministry of Finance a report on the organisation of the Equation Management, in which the use of resources at the offices is assessed in detail. We have noticed that the department will give the report a thorough treatment, including broad consultation, before the matter is brought before the Stortinget. And it might be interesting if the Minister of Finance could say something about when the Storting can expect to get the case on the structure of the Equations Offices for treatment. This has been the subject of debates in the past. Based on the Committee's comments, it is clear that at least some people here in the house would like to see if it is not now possible to achieve a structuralisation and an improvement in the efficiency of the work on the equation by abolishing this link to an equality office in each and every municipality. This last one I mention especially for my own party, because there will be divided views at this point. For my own part, I would also like to add that it is important to do something about the length of the trial period at the Equation Offices, especially for the complaints. I have one more question for the Minister of Finance, on behalf of the Progress Party, namely whether a kind of complaint handling mechanism should be considered. There are some examples of taxpayers, both companies and individuals, having complained about the equation, the complaint has been there for many years, and then taxpayers have actually received support. Then it might not help much, because the tax is demanded once and for all. If the tax is very high, the company or perhaps the taxpayer may go bankrupt. Of course, it is nice to have a few years later and get money back, but in reality the loss has happened. What I'm suggesting is a mechanism where complaints are submitted to a lightning-fast first reading to assess whether there is an overwhelming opportunity to win. If there is a great opportunity to win with the complaint, or that is an opportunity, you might want to have a mechanism where the tax is not charged, that is, in these cases too, you let the doubt fall to the benefit of the defendant. Of course, it is not possible to go so far that anyone will complain about a postponement of some years of tax payment while the review procedure is in progress. We are fully aware of this also in the Progress Party. However, there should be some kind of ex ante assessment, and in all cases which can at least be considered questionable, there should be a mechanism where the tax is not levied until the complaint is completed, in order to avoid people being unjustly bankrupt, and people suffering from very serious financial problems. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance to think about this and perhaps confirm that it would be interesting to have a kind of note drawn up in the Ministry with an assessment of whether the legal certainty of tax providers could not be improved – so that we do not experience that businesses and people are going to be bankrupt or have huge financial problems because the tax is demanded, but later on, we are getting involved in their complaint. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e165	I was a little in doubt if I would take up the Storting's time at this time of year, when I know it's hectic. However, since I received direct questions from the rapporteur, I asked for the floor. Let me first, before I try to answer the questions, say that I have read with interest the committee's setting, Innst. S. No 212, with comments on Document No 3:8 for 1998-99. In particular, I have noted that the Committee does not draw any negative conclusions of a general nature on the tax rate on the basis of the Riksrevision studies. Of course, the Committee has its views, which I have noted, and which will be taken into account in the further work. For my part, I would like to refer mainly to the view of the Ministry of Finance on this matter, as set out in that document, as well as to the response of the Council of State of Enoxsen on my behalf in the Question Time on 12 May of this year, which is also referred to in the Committee's observations. I also agree with the Committee's specific recommendations, such as: with regard to the wish that the tax rate should consider an even stronger priority for value-oriented work. This may be appropriate in relation to the etat planning for the next strategy period, i.e. from 2000. As referred to in Document No. 3:8 is a very large and important state activity. In my view, therefore, the budget will have some unresolved problems and challenges at all times. But I can assure you that both the Ministry of Finance and the Directorate of Taxation stress that the agency is working systematically to meet improvement needs, both at different functional levels and at different levels of organisation. The future organisation of Equation Offices will be a key theme in improving the efficiency of the Equation Unit. The Tax Directorate’s investigation into the organisation of the Equation Management was carried out on 16 April this year. The investigation is comprehensive and addresses many questions. In the department we are now preparing a broad consultation on the matter. After the hearing, there will be a thorough examination in the Department and in the Government before the matter is referred to the Stortinget. Quality, non-discrimination and efficiency considerations will weigh heavily in this process. The rapporteur then asked when Stortinget could expect to be presented with this matter. We want to give the matter a high priority in the department, but as I said, it is extensive, and a hearing is required, so it has to take some time. We know that the harvest is largely devoted to the budget of the Ministry of Finance, so it is difficult for me to say something for sure about when this can be presented to the Stortinget, but I have hopes that this could happen during the spring 2000 session. Do not take this as a promise, but as at least an intention on the part of the Minister of Finance to have the matter referred to him. Although there are potential for improvement, it is my general opinion that in this country we have a consistently well-functioning tax base with loyal and competent employees. How vital this is for society, I don't have to stress in this assembly. Carl I. Hagen then raised a question about a possible mechanism in connection with complaint proceedings that take a long time. At least I see very clearly the problems that the representative Hagen points to, that if the review process takes a very long time, it will help little if you finally get sympathy, if you have had problems in the meantime because of tax collected, in the worst case bankruptcy. I do not want any particular opinion on this, but my general view is that the review procedure should go as quickly as possible. That's the main sight. But it can take longer for different reasons. I have noticed the idea that the representative Hagen is promoting, that if a quick first reading of the case shows that there may be opportunities, or that it could probably end up with the taxpayer getting the right, then you have to consider a postponement of the payment of the tax. This is a problem that I want to take with me to the department and evaluate there. I do not dare to reply on the standing footing, but I can promise that it will be taken into consideration in the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e182	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 3810]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e196	It's probably one of the Committee's highlights when we discuss the annual report from the Civil Ombudsman. The reason is that we get a lot of interesting things that the Civil Ombudsman deals with on the basis of complaints, and on the basis of the recordings that have come both from the administration and from individuals. The communication we are examining today was issued in March 1999 and is a review of the 1998 business. The Committee notes that in the 1998 notification year there were 2,167 complaints, an increase in one case compared with 1997. This figure also includes a general and systematic examination of the duration of proceedings, inter alia. in the municipality of Kongsberg in connection with the provision of services to persons with developmental disabilities, where they have dealt with 44 individual cases which have been thoroughly reviewed and examined. We also see in the reporting year that there are 2 254 cases completed, and this is an increase in comparison with 1997 and 1996, 87 and 210 cases. The Committee is pleased that of the cases that were closed, there were 1,209 cases – i.e. 53.6 pst. – which was dealt with as a matter of fact; 1,045 cases were rejected. Here we see a large complex of individual cases, and we also see that the number of cases dealt with by the Civil Ombudsman has risen from the previous years. This is the committee very pleased with. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that the Civil Ombudsman has carried out systematic investigations at different levels of administration, and we see that it clearly provides the Civil Ombudsman with a better basis for improving administrative practices. There is something big business has been very busy about. We see that the Justice Committee has dealt with this with the administration and the demand for better governance than we have today. I would then like to stress that in terms of the length of the procedure in the public sector, those who are going to service individuals, and the complaints that have been received, the administration has a lot to do. It is therefore gratifying that the Judicial Committee, which recently concluded its proceedings on Ot. pp. No 52 for 1998-99 on time limits for administrative proceedings, proposed that a new provision be included in Section 11(b) of the Administrative Act allowing the King to set by regulation time limits for the management of cases requiring individual decisions. This is one thing that we from the Progress Party will stress the importance of. Although we had clearer deadlines in the Odelstingsproposition than that of the majority in the Judicial Committee and beyond in this area, it is important that the persons concerned are taken seriously. We can compare with the case for which Carl I. Hagen was the case rapporteur, who was dealing with the various equality offices in the Kingdom. It is also important, as the Minister of Finance stressed, that the review procedure should be speeded up. But, of course, the procedure should not go so fast that one cannot go into the depths of the individual cases, or be such that the individual who has a complaint is ignored because it goes too fast. We have otherwise, as stated in the setting, been given some individual items in the message. Among other things, we see that the proceedings of the county doctor in Oslo are alarmingly high, and that is also the procedure for appeals in the conciliation panels, and we also see that there have been too poor procedures and follow-up with regard to the treatment of construction matters. Therefore, it is important that the Civil Ombudsman also carry out thorough investigations in the future, and that the Civil Ombudsman returns to the Stortinget with specific messages in important principal cases, as has been done in the reporting year. The Committee stresses the importance of public agencies at different levels of government exercising more openness as far as possible in respect of case documents, and I have to say here that the Civil Ombudsman has taken the lead with a glittering example – which is brilliant and should also be remembered by other public bodies. The Committee also feels that it is positive that the Ombudsman has held a number of meetings with organisations and public administrations from both home and abroad, indicating that the interest of the Ombudsman’s institution, both domestically and abroad, remains high. It is also good that the institution has been set up in new office facilities in Akersgaten 8, and the Committee has taken the view that at that location the Civil Ombudsman could also be more effective. They have been assigned more time and effort to follow up the matters they have, as they are located so centrally, and that most of them are collected in the Akersgat. In the light of the unanimous recommendation of the Committee, I would only recommend that Document No. 4 for 1988-99, Notice for 1988 from the Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy for administration is annexed to the Protocol, and everyone recalls what the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has said in this important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e222	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 3810]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e238	I'm addressing this issue with the assumption that the school is probably the most important social institution in the knowledge society we live in. Each individual's ability to create a good life is even more dependent on education and competence than before. That is why it is so important that all children are given equal opportunity to master school life. The media give us a picture of a tougher day-to-day school. I do not have evidence to say that this is a correct situational description, but it is a fact that many children have problems at school and need extra help. As many as 80,000–90,000 children and young people are taken care of by the municipal PP services annually. We don't know how many more people should have had help. For every child who doesn't get the help it needs, it's a tragedy. And when we know that a child who has problems can destroy an entire learning environment in the class if it doesn't get the help it needs, the problem involves a lot more. In other words, we face major challenges in ensuring that all children and young people receive the training they need to cope with in society. We have to be sure that the help that the public provides works according to the intentions – and then we have come to the heart of my interpellation. As I refer to in my interpellation text, there are examples where up to 43 professionals have worked with one child without knowing about each other. In other words, things indicate that the auxiliary equipment around children with special needs is large, but also complicated. I'm concerned that, in our eagerness to build up good welfare offers, we may have forgotten the users, in this case the children who need extra follow-up. There is always good will behind the creation of new and more specialised welfare services, but it is asked whether efforts are being used correctly when the system becomes complicated and coordination is lacking. The losers in such a system are children who do not get the help they need, despite the existence of professionals. In my opinion, this is an obvious area to go into the Government's project to make Norway simpler. Children and young people with special needs are often assisted by different sectors, bodies, levels of administration and skills in the welfare system, each of which is responsible for only one ‘part’ of the user. The number of professionals and specialisations has increased in recent years. This has led to intransigence, unclear responsibilities and lack of coordination. There are many doors to knock on for those who need help. There are countless well-documented stories about children and relatives who feel like throwing balls in the welfare arena. Sometimes different agencies struggle to get the primary responsibility for a client, sometimes to expedite the help-needing to others. According to St.meld. No 23 for 1997-98, on training for children, young people and adults with specific needs, the support system for children and young people with special needs includes five levels of management and institutions and departments in the education, child protection, social, health, culture, social security and employment sectors. The Joint Organisation of disabled people has pointed to the problem by building up parallel services in the various sectors. Users have to deal with PP services, child and youth psychiatry, habilitation services, assistance centres, social security services, etc. The same story has to be told over and over again. For a non-expert, it's hard to understand that professionals don't talk. This is done despite the existence of legislation, both in laws, regulations and instructions, which obliges training agencies and in the health and social system to cooperate and coordinate their work. It is therefore a major challenge for the state, the county councils and the municipalities, which are responsible for the auxiliaries in various ways, to turn good will into action. It's by no means an easy task to coordinate this very system. Many investigations have been written in the field of organisational teaching about how difficult it is to get different agencies at different levels of administration to cooperate. Different professional approaches and professional struggles are also a classic theme for those who want to explain that the world is not moving in the right direction. So is the case in the case of the support apparatus around children. Strict enforcement of professional secrecy, lack of willingness to cooperate across professional boundaries and unclear distribution of responsibilities between the different levels of responsibility can explain that children and young people experience the encounter with the auxiliaries as frustrating. The worst thing is that the resources are not used for the benefit of the person in question. Now is the time to do something. As a follow-up to the said St.meld. No 23 municipalities are given increased responsibility for the special pedagogical work from the autumn. The idea was that resources should be allocated to the municipalities, so that as many children as possible get the help they need. In the construction phase to come, it is very important to establish good cooperation. We need to make sure that these increased resources mean an improvement for the children involved. Coordination between State bodies, cooperation between municipalities and state agencies and inter-municipal coordination must be ensured if the reform is to have the desired effect, namely to strengthen the facilities around schools and individual children. So far, I have spent a lot of time describing a depressing situation. But there are also positive things happening. Better coordination is the review tone of the Single European Act on rehabilitation, which Stortinget debated on Wednesday, and also in St.meld. No The emphasis was placed on better coordination. Government rates at service offices and service declarations, where the user is at the centre of the activities of public agencies. This idea should be able to be transferred to the area we are discussing today. Service offices mean that agencies for different levels of administration coordinate their activities, both in space and in action. All public departments shall draw up service statements which shall tell the user what they can expect from the institution. Both parts are important when disadvantaged children and their superiors are the user. But most importantly, perhaps the good examples of practical action are. Several municipalities have focused on coordinated efforts towards children with special needs, with interdisciplinary groups linked to each school. Such good examples need to be disseminated further. In the ‘Children in the risk zone’ project, the aim is also cooperation. Several organisations have joined forces to develop prevention courses for policy-makers and professionals working with children in the municipality. So it is not lacking on purpose – now it is important to act. It may not be the case that the inability of adults to cooperate is detrimental to the future of children.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e270	The look-up in the Evening Post relates to a specific and rather unique case that I do not want to comment on in more detail. However, Falch Fladmark is addressing a general and very complex challenge: the cooperation and coordination of services between different levels of administration and administration. We have seen this clearer and clearer as the well-being of society has been curtailed. I think it's right to remind you that today we're giving help to many people who didn't get help with problems they were struggling with. With highly qualified staff, actions are put in place to an extent that a previously only dream could dream of. Specialisation and development of professions have increased in recent decades. In many ways, this has been for the benefit of those who need help. But evolution also has its drawbacks. The provision of services to children and young people with special needs, which we are talking about here, is anchored in different bodies, sectors, levels of administration and professions. We experience that this often leads to unclear responsibilities and lack of coordination. The main characters get a lot of doors to knock on, and the many agencies each have responsibility for just ‘their part of the offer’ – not for the health. As the interpellant Falck Flatmark is inside, there may be bad contact between the different instances during the work with the individual child. The popular expression for this is that "one hand doesn't know what the other hand is doing." For those who are in debt, and for those who are helping, this can be very serious. The development of parallel, overlapping and competing services — following the involvement of several help agencies in the work — has been reflected in several large-scale messages in recent years, such as the interpellant mentioned. Often we talk about ‘grey zones’. It has been demonstrated that both those who get help and those who are related do not rarely feel like throwing balls between different instances with often varying ethos culture. The main impression from various studies is that most people are well-accompanied by the efforts of the individual body, but that they often experience problems with the system as a whole. Not least the disabled people's own organisations handle this. What can be done? The benefits of cooperation and coordination between the many actors are evident. Health strategies provide better quality of professional work and services. We avoid duplication of responsibility, duplication of effort and unnecessary referrals to other bodies. This provides better economy and resource utilisation, which frees capacity. In St.meld. No 23 for 1997-98, About training for children, young people and adults with specific needs, as mentioned in the interpellant, these problems were discussed relatively widely. For most services in the training and health and social sectors, there have been long-established rules for professional cooperation and coordination in law, regulation or instruction. However, we do not have a professional body with a cross-sectoral or coordinating role. After all, coordination responsibility is, in practice, essentially the responsibility of the local authorities. In addition, the municipal sector is very free when it comes to how to organise services. I think much can be done locally and centrally to promote cooperation and coordination, primarily at local level. Formal coordination forums may be set up at the level of the unit or the case-worker. It is becoming more and more common to set up multi-disciplinary or cross-border responsibilities – preferably with a single contact person – to coordinate actions for each or for a target group. In the early 1990s, for example, 20 municipalities in the project ‘Alternative organisation of child protection’, where one tried to coordinate all services for children and young people, often with the school in the centre. Six counties did something similar through the ‘New organisation of the municipal services of children and young people’. Another measure is cooperation between the local authorities concerned on the preparation of joint individual action plans, in close cooperation with those in need, and their implementation. A third type of action with good effect may be the conclusion of cooperation agreements on responsibilities, e.g.: between the county and the municipalities, in order to ensure coherence and continuity of the overall action chain, and to avoid grey areas between levels of administration. But also at state level, we need to improve coordination when it comes to leadership, priorities and goals ‘down the system’. As a follow-up to St.meld. No 23 for 1997-98 and St.meld. No 21 for the 1998-99 Rehabilitation Communication, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research will take responsibility for a work aimed at harmonising the management signal and objectives of different departments and at clarifying the division of responsibilities and tasks and cooperation procedures. In concrete terms, this includes: the need to have a clearer division of responsibilities between the rehabilitation services in the county and the state special-pedagogical centres of competence. Where several agencies and levels of government come in, joint circulars and guides from the departments concerned can clear up the road uncertain and contribute to cooperation and coordinated efforts. These common "cleaning" work are several examples in the last few years. In a joint circular from the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, advice has been given on various local cooperation models, procedures and proceedings in cases of sexual abuse of children. Another example is the 1998 Ministry of Justice/Crime Prevention Council workperm with advice and guidance on ‘Coordination of local crime prevention measures’. This is about how to organise local cooperation between the different levels of youth at risk, a problem area that has recently become a major focus of public debate. In this context, I will also note that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Children and Family have recently taken joint initiatives to train two methods of interdisciplinary work with children and young people who have, or are at high risk of developing, serious behavioural problems. Parental education and training skills are designed to help parents use alternative and more appropriate strategies in everyday life in the management of debilitating children, while multi-systemal therapy is developed in view of young people with serious behavioural problems leading to crime and drug abuse. It is aimed at the young and the family and is implemented locally with the participation of all relevant bodies. Interrighteous cooperation must have legitimacy in the lead in order to be able to be closed. Local authorities have therefore been invited, together with social security and labour offices, to set up transnational forums at the level of leaders to coordinate actions for common user groups. I would also like to take note of the fact that a government secretarial selection has been set up centrally in connection with the Government's disability action plan, where coordination of actions from different departments is an important objective. There is also a State Secretaryial Selection for Children and Youth, where the Department concerned is working together to coordinate different actions for the target group. Every year, in cooperation with other departments, the Ministry of Children and Family prepares a publication setting out the objectives and guidelines of child and youth policy and listing the state's promises. It is a key objective of the publication to become an important travel hub for planning and policy-making in the municipal sector. When assessing how the division of tasks works in general, I will refer to the Task Distribution Selection, which was named at kgl. 1998 resolution. The selection shall include: provide an overview and evaluation of the division of responsibilities, tasks and functions between the State, the counties and the municipalities. The selection shall end its work in June 2000. The work to ensure cooperation and coordination between the departments is thus carried out at both local and central level. Also at the state, regional level, the coordination function vis-à-vis the municipal sector, from the county council, the county board and the director of education, has gradually been given greater emphasis. But despite several years of noticing these problems and working well at several levels – and increasing the emphasis on active user involvement – we meet headlines in the media about failure of the system. However, the ‘system’ consists of the addition of meat and blood. We still see examples of professional interests and sectoral autonomy as obstacles to cooperation and coordination. On the educational side, there is reason to place greater emphasis on the understanding that the slogan ‘User at the Centre’ should be something more than an honorary word in festivities. That includes, inter alia: that professional interests must be subordinate to health and that this must be more clearly addressed both in basic training for the individual professionals and in continuing training. It is important to learn more about the other professions and etats and how to communicate and cooperate better with each other. In this context, I would also like to mention that the rules on obligations can be interpreted more restrictively by the individual etats and professions than they are supposed to be. Finally, I would like to say quite in agreement with the interpellant that it will be an important contribution to the project ‘Simplify Norway’ to better address these issues. I'm going to promise that my colleagues and I in the other department will be working on these issues in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e312	It is gratifying to note that the Council of State also sees that there is a problem of non-coordination in this sector, and that this is something he and several other departments are addressing. I think it's interesting that he also emphasizes the human factor, because the problem I'm going to travel, you don't get to do anything about it if you don't want people in the system. It is also worth noting that he points out that the obligation of professional secrecy is often interpreted too strictly. We have to remember that privacy exists for the person concerned. In this case, the standards of protection must not be used in the best interests of the person. The Council of State emphasises the importance of local work, but points out that the State also has a responsibility. I want to underline this. The State of several ministries is responsible for the cooperation of the underlying agencies, and they must do their utmost to break down the sectoral boundaries. The reason why I have addressed my interpellation to the Minister of Education and not to another minister who could have been as up-to-date as the Minister of Health, the Minister of Social Affairs or others, is that I believe that the way we have to go to find solutions to this problem is to focus on the school as the arena. The auxiliary equipment must be built around the student and the school. This may be the way to get professionals to cooperate. I would like to ask the Council of State if he can do anything to promote such a development when the special educational work in the municipalities is now to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e323	First, some assessments related to what the interpellant said about what space the school should have. I agree that the school will be very central to getting this done. What I want to point out, however, is that I think we're all kind of involved in creating a sectorization. As a committee member and leader in Stortinget, I have been discussing where the different matters belong at home – this may be more of a matter of ensuring that the positions are held than always being rational – if one is to be completely honest. In the same way, it's like the Council of State, and together with other councils, where one has a very proper and competent office that gives clear advice. The times we discuss coordination and transfer of matters, it is quite clear that it is easy to sit and defend the organisational structure as he is. That's the way it's going to be down the system, and it's kind of our job as responsible politicians to take this inward. To day I wear myself with it to be open enough. That's why it's important that things like this are interpolated, so we'll see this on the agenda, and so get on the table that we have a problem here someone left. So until this if I can actually do something. As the interpellant said, there is now a work on following up, among other things. St.meld. No 23 and the rehabilitation message. In our work on this already taken initiative to look at how we can achieve simplification and a better relationship, so that the user can find a place where a person takes a common responsibility. How can we do that without this becoming a new body? For a coordinating body, it is also very easy to become a place where only a new meeting will be concluded and it does not really help the debt. So I just have to admit that I'm pretty humble in terms of complexity, but I'm the same way as the interpellant, very interested in that we're going to be able to go a few steps – and I think that also indicates that someone has to look at each of some demarcation lines going, and be willing to look over the boundaries and maybe even move borders. There's a common challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e334	This is a responsibility of the Government in its fields. So when one of the government parties here in Stortinget took this up, I actually thought that you now made some concrete proposals and something new, because we are in the middle of the Stortinget interview in the spring session. But both Falch Fladmark and the Council of State came up with the repetitions, namely the need for coordination and that children and young people should not have many doors to knock on – which we all fully agree with. Then Falch Flatmark pointed to existing measures that the governments Harlem Brundtland and Jagland established in cooperation with the Landsorganisationen and the Municipal Association, namely the Service Offices. She forgot the measures we have taken, including: in order to coordinate social security offices and employment offices — there are many constructive trials — and the conflict councils we now have in many neighbourhoods, where schools, social affairs and the police are being brought together. But not least, she forgot – and it was a little surprising – the investigation that in its time suggested that the PP service, which meets many children, and the social affairs, which also meet the same children, should have been co-organised locally or brought together in concrete terms. The professionals themselves have never wanted that, but that's probably the instance in the community where you could have done a job, if you were willing to take up the fight with the professionals. I have no idea that the government has nestled in that thread. Thus, everything is at the old, and the government has, just to emphasize it, all the powers to make life easier. So I don't see the whole purpose of the government parties taking this matter up in Stortingen at this point in time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e341	I think this is an important matter. I could like to say a lot about it, both because it is serious when a child experiences such things as the representative Falch Flatmark refers to, and because I have met a lot of such children who have contact with different agencies because they have different problems. These I have met in my work as an adviser in high school. It's in school the children stay daily. There, you have to deal with children who are ill, you have to deal with the introverts, you have to deal with them with physical plagues, you have to deal with them, you have to deal with them, you have to deal with them, you have to deal with them, you have to deal with them, you have to deal with them. This does not really belong to the school, but often belongs to other agencies. The school shall not solve all problems but is an important factor in coordinating and contributing to cross-cutting work. I think there is a lot of good work going on in many places with a view to coordinating measures. Several schools have gone into the brink of convening and cooperating with different agencies that are relevant to children in the risk zone. We've been working with St.meld. No 28 for 1998-99 and will review it and discuss it on Monday. The councils have announced that he wants an area review. Maybe this is a field that should be seen from school, from the local school. I believe that this can also be a development area for the school. At my school, we had cross-country meetings once a month. The principal called for a health sister, a school doctor, a PP service, a social office and a school counselor. Was there a need, met single teachers, parents, and sometimes the police. Sometimes this led to the setting up of a responsibility group around a student, and at least one here could share their concerns with some, and one got professionals who could see the problems from a different angle. When it came to students we had had contact with at home, we could address the problems in full width – sometimes this was anonymized cases. Some schools also practice class-based reviews of problems that parents are informed about to be addressed at such meetings. When a meeting was over, each department took responsibility for the piece that we thought should be followed up. There was little red tape and little paperwork. What sometimes closes is the obligation of professional secrecy. Quite briefly, for all professionals this means that if the parents give their consent to the provision of information, a person can talk fairly well and freely about the problems. I know a few parents who don't want the best to do with their child.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e362	It is a serious and important matter that is being drawn up, and that Right has tried to address in several different ways in the past. There are two areas that stand out, which I think we might be able to do something about, in this case complex. The only thing that Right has pointed to for years is the need for a more adapted education, a teaching adapted to the individual. The second is to let groups other than educators into the school, so that we can solve some of these problems in the ordinary school. Both in the assessment message, St.meld. No 28 and the reform 94 evaluation makes it quite clear that, when it comes to adapting training, when it comes to differential education, we have got very little going on, despite the fact that this has been a goal for decades. There are trade unions both in Norway and abroad who have come relatively far in this area. But there's very little of it in the post-secondary education that's going on in the school, for example. in the context of Reform 97, and there is very little of it in the context of teacher training. I would like to challenge the Council of States a little bit: how can we now focus on what is perhaps one of the biggest problems in Norwegian school, simply to develop a differential education that helps, so that these are not just words of honor. So to the other thing that I want to record. One has discussed St.meld. No 23 on training for children, young people and adults with special problems. The majority of the population made a mistake – against the right’s will – by cutting down centres of competence, because it has contributed to something that the interpellant today points to, a pulverisation, we get to spread these resources beyond, partially destroyed, so that competence disappears. Let go of it - that thing is lost. In connection with this, we pointed from the Right's side to one of the same things that Falch Fladmark has done today, namely that although we see that integration into Norwegian schools has been very positive, there have also been some disadvantages in this integration policy. And one of the things we asked for in connection with that big message was that, in the interest of all the students, we need to get a review of what has happened when it comes to special education in Norwegian school after the special ballelova was taken away. We think it's necessary to have this review, where we'll look at this with differentiation, special education in school, special schools and other ways. Unfortunately, our proposal was put to the test, but the government party, including its party, and the representative of Falch Fladmark's party, has the opportunity to vote for that proposal again on Monday, and we are promoting it again in connection with the handling of St. Report. No 28.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e379	It is an important matter that has been raised, but it is easy to debate at idle. And it might have to be that way when one of the government parties asks questions to their own government, without any new leaders, any new proposals, any new ideas. The description that Falch Flatmark gives of the situation is a broad consensus: we have a problem. The answer, the solution, is the concept of ‘coordination, cooperation and interdisciplinary’. We've said that, and we repeat that again and again without going any further. I think there are several reasons why we're not doing better. The problem lies among others: in the absence of professionals. Around Norwegian municipalities, around Norwegian schools, we lack a good deal of competence to solve that type of problem. There is a lack of people in the PP service around the municipalities. In order to strengthen the first line service, we see that many municipalities are struggling with recruitment. We also know that there are problems in providing specialised educators in part of the education sector — there is also one of the problems. I think one of the most important things we could try out – and what we know is that we have good experience with – are the so-called emergency teams, which we have in a number of municipalities. There are a number of municipalities that have tried the emergency team scheme, which includes people from the education sector, psychiatry, the PP service and social services. Their task is to address the problems at the moment they arise, with a view to a rapid investigation, so that the necessary action is taken. So I think that to the extent that we could do something – and we can certainly – in addition to using all the beautiful words that are widely agreed on, one should perhaps give stronger leadership to the community sector to do something about the organization, and go into the emergency teams that have a task with those who get problems and need help from different agencies. Whether it should be legislated, or how it should be done, I do not know, but there should at least be clear signals that this must be organised in a different way. In the end, the fact that we don't succeed in these things, that we don't get it right, can also be because the local economy doesn't open up this, that it's hard to employ enough professionals, there are problems with the economy, and then it becomes this part of the work that gets down-prioritized.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e392	It's almost amazing that the debate we had last spring in this room, later to show up again as a troll of box. Now we hear words about reorganization in the municipal sector, which may help. However, the new organisational model that SV calls for will hardly be able to do anything quickly about access to the necessary professionals who go directly into and help the individual child in the daily situation. When children become caste balls between public institutions, in my view, it is a symptom of system failure, and that does not mean that the solution must be new organisation, development areas for the school, development of special pedagogics. This means that one has come into a situation where the lack of professional competence, accountability, is real. So who's responsible? Yes, those who have a clear responsibility are according to the Children's Act § 30 parents. It's not the municipality, it's not the teachers, it's not the professionals. It's the parents. Whether this is a challenge for the majority or whether it's a obvious problem, I don't know, but I think it can be a lot of that we recognize that parents are responsible and maybe provide some more support for just their parents instead of putting an awful lot of stumbling blocks in the way they're going to go. Then you can ask yourself if common circulars, central selections and publications will help something on an obvious coordination problem. You can hope, but I don't think it helps more than parenting and recruiting skills. For who can be more about being a commissioner and a parent than just the parents themselves? As far as I know, this is not an obvious large alpha and omega science in any higher education. Unfortunately, the disclaimer causes us to lose a lot of children and young people in a society that only consists of 41⁄2 million inhabitants, and that means that we lose some small ‘stones’ in the future welfare system that we have. The Progress Party has pointed to solutions in connection with St.meld. No 23 for 1997-98, budgets, etc. We're not going to do it again, but our opinion is completely clear in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e403	There is clearly disagreement as to whether this is an important matter. I'm a little surprised at that. Several have criticised the interpellant because I do not come up with concrete solutions. I believe that my concern as a big-time representative is to raise a problem issue so that it is put on the agenda and so that as a big deal we show that we are interested and want things to happen. My ringing hope of raising this matter to Stortinget today is that we will give a signal both to those in the government apparatus who will work on this, and to professionals and those who are working on it in practice. We want more people to cooperate. But it should also be a reminder to ourselves, because as the Council of State was about, we ourselves are sectoral politicians, we are the ones who make laws and regulations, we are the ones who build up the welfare system, and we must keep in mind that we have to think completely. We must not forget that it is the users, in this case the child, that applies. We have to remember to make systems that work easily for those that apply. This has become a major concern of the Government. I think it's very important, it's so important that I allow myself to spend the time of the Storting for this even if it's approaching election and it's approaching the end of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e411	I thought it was somewhat surprising that the representative Grete Knudsen criticized the interpellant for raising the case because the government has all the powers. I have received many interviews during the time I have our Council of State, and each time it has allowed me to go deeper into a matter. I have heard the Storting's opinion, and I think that in a number of areas there are clearly the premises that have been made there, are involved and influence the policy. Then it's clear that one also has another communication between government and government. But it can't be taken from representatives of the government fractions to travel interpellations. If anyone were to be criticized, it was perhaps the Council of State, who did not have enough concrete solutions. However, it is not right that the representative, Mr Rikvam, says that there are no things going on. For the landfill treatment in connection with St.meld No. 23 last year has seen a number of things going on, and the project A simpler Norway started a series of things. But at the same time I allowed myself to problematize it. There are a lot of things that have to happen at once: a change of posture in most people, a combination of profession – which is very often becoming strong – and we as a sector thinker, and a desire for well-being. It is quite right that some times we hear the same words over and over again – it has the representative Reikvam right in it, but I think that I was quite humble in my post compared to the fact that it is not easy to point out simple solutions to complicated questions. But the representative Ursula Evje has an interesting point in it with the parent situation, because it is quite clear that to the extent that we are able to mobilise parents to take more responsibility in relation to kindergarten, school, etc., there is something in itself that will require something of a public appliance. But then we know that some of the people who need these services the most are the parents who have the least resources. Therefore, there is a need for us to be truly grateful to others. I agree with the representative, Løvik, that when it comes to adapting education, we are not far enough. But I think in the two messages we've done well for how we're going to get on, and in the new teacher's education, there's a lot more to it. I thought that the representative Stråtveit was quite right when she pointed out that, in relation to the big message that we were going to deal with on Monday, we have warned about different areas, but that was not exactly the type of area we had been thinking about, it was more field we had intended to go through. But obviously coordination and the purpose of helping people when they are going to be one of the things we need to assess in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e428	So the debate is on case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e442	Many people believe that we have two equal written languages in Norway. We have – one is called Norwegian, and the other is called Sami. But the Norwegian writing language exists in two historical branches, and there's a problem that we've been struggling with for quite a few decades without finding the right solution. There is no disagreement either in the Stortinget or elsewhere about the underlying principle that there should be free choice for all Norwegian children and young people which of these two branches they want to use as their language version of Norwegian. What distinguishes our Norwegian policy in this area from that of most other European countries is that, from the early stage of education, we already use a disproportionate amount of time and the forces to learn both of the two branches of our national writing language. The reason for this is not the principle of equality; the reason for this is quite different, namely that all Norwegian citizens who turn to public authorities are entitled to receive answers in the same way that they themselves use. This was probably a well-founded form of language policy in its time. As far as I can see, that time has passed a long time ago. Today, it is no longer a well-founded form of language policy. This is because today we are in a situation where the distance between the two objectives has become so small that it is not a single Norwegian citizen who will have problems understanding the answer if he receives an answer in a different language than the one he himself uses. In most cases, the quality of what comes out of this principle is so poor that it is suitable to undermine self-respect both at the sender and at the recipient, and I would assume that most Norwegian citizens see themselves more deserving to receive an answer in a good and clear and intelligible Norwegian, than to receive an answer that is considerably more difficult to obtain because it is written by a person who does not master the language in which the letter is written. What is the basic problem that leads to, as I have pointed out in the question to the Council of State, that an increasing number of people, both in the research and university communities, who speak Norwegian languages, and among those who are responsible for language teaching in the school, express growing doubts as to whether there is any reasonable relationship between the yield and the time seized to maintain the fiction that all adults of the North should master both languages in writing? I think the basic problem is that it is super difficult to motivate the students for this part of the training. This is because you initially have a much more difficult situation than you do when it comes to language training in general. In the case of language training in foreign languages, the motivation is obvious. The motivation is to be able to communicate with people who were not able to communicate with before. That motivation is impossible to use in the case of training in written side measures, because it does not enable a person to communicate with any person with whom he was unable to communicate in advance. And that makes it extremely difficult to make children and young people understand why you should spend so much time on something that doesn't expand a single person's ability to communicate with other people. I have pointed out that in Norway we face a significant challenge in caring for our Norwegian writing culture. And in that area, I don't know any other European country that has such a little thoughtful strategy to take care of its own writing culture, like Norway. We have no coordination between the library service, for example. – with the new National Library, which is so far just a thought, and which does not seem to allow us to realise in the foreseeable future – on the one hand, and the school and education systems on the other. It is managed by two ministries, and there is very little — if anything — of thoughtful coordination. Nor do I know any other European country that, in its native language training, places so little emphasis on classical national literature. In all cultural countries it has been such that the most important method of providing children and young people with a good knowledge of languages is to give them participation in classical national literature. Because that's where the wealth exists, that's where the good examples are available, and it's only through familiarity with the classical national literature that you can develop a good language mastery yourself. It is self-evident to me that we have one national literature in Norway, and not two. The national literature includes Henrik Ibsen, Bjørnstar Bjørnson, Knut Hamsun and Sigrid Except in exactly the same way as Ivar Aasen, Aasmund Olavsson Vinje, Arne Garborg and Tarjei Vesaas. And it's a sunny task for the school to make the children equally familiar with and equally happy in all parts of this national literature. I am also convinced that if you gave the school a much greater freedom than it has today to set up a strategy to give students the best in Norwegian writing culture, the result that came out would be much better, the students' motivation would be considerably stronger and the educational task for Norwegian teachers would be much more stimulating than it is today. My question to the Council of State – he is known as a liberal man – is whether he does not see this as an important challenge in the experimental and development work in Norwegian school: that, in particular, in the field of language teaching, we should give far more freer arms than we have today? It has been shown that even such a modest experimental activity as placing intensive education in written sidings at secondary school during a particular period of the school year and adding up to an examination at a different time from the established one has created enormous controversy. I think Norwegian language development would serve to put a good part of the past behind us and start to take a stronger interest in the great challenge facing Norwegian national languages in today's Americanized language world. There's a formidable challenge, and if we're going to meet it, we just have to gather the forces to get the best out of our classic national literature and make sure that the students get a living relationship to this. So my challenge to the Council of State is to provide a significantly greater degree of freedom of choice, a significantly greater opportunity for experimentation at all stages of school to provide the good language teachers, many of whom are in Norwegian school, with a more satisfactory working situation, and to provide pupils with a greater benefit from language teaching than they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e477	As always, the right interpellant is exciting to develop thoughts about a theme, as well as about the theme that this interpellation is about. But I hope that the interpellant and I can agree on – he says that we have two Norwegian writing languages and describe it primarily as a problem – that it is a wealth to have these two Norwegian writing languages, and that it has been a substantial wealth in Norwegian cultural life and for the development of our whole nation. So for the interpellation. I understand the representative's salary, so he thinks that students should be given the choice to learn written page goals, and that this freedom of choice will strengthen our national font culture. – That’s how it developed through the deepening of the interpellation. I agree with the representative for Wage that it is important to strengthen the national font culture and give room for work on our common national literature. I also agree that Norwegian language is under pressure, especially from English and American. This is how I believe that the representative Wohnning and I have a common stand in our position to take care of and develop both the Norwegian script culture and the national literature. When it comes to research, the representative shows that both the research community and the school's people have expressed doubts about the mandatory training in written parallels is a forward-looking contribution to strengthening Norwegian script culture. The doubt, for which remuneration is aimed, is probably based on the research on the use of common language textbooks in social education in the further training, and the presentation of the levels of written siding training among the elephants who have had written siding training either in nynosic or bookcases, presented in School Focus No. 4 1999. This research shows, among other things: That very many elephants, 73 pst., don't want to learn neuron, and that 95 pst. by the students would like to learn books. The results of this research show that a lot of the elephants have a negative attitude to the new Norse, but even more clearly, the research shows that the way in which the text in the textbooks is structured and designed is far more important for the students' understanding than if the book is in a new or a book. On the other hand, this research does not say anything about the professional consequences of students being trained in both new and book goals as side goals. When it comes to researching the professional consequences of students having to learn two written forms of goals, there is no research, as far as the department is aware, to show that students are getting worse in one or both forms of education because they are being trained in both. Since there is no reference to such research, and since the lessons of written training in both the basic and further training are not entirely due to negative attitudes, there is a need to look at how teaching and training is done. If neural training is still dominated by grammar, pugging and punishment, as a researcher claims, this is a strong warning to teachers that something needs to be done. If teachers use methods other than book-keeping training, methods that seem more discouraging than motivating, tell us that the question of good side-by-side training, new Norwegian training, is to a large extent a question of methodology and behaviour on the part of the teachers. Teachers who have a positive attitude to cross-target training achieve, based on the experience of common language textbooks, the best learning effect. Here I allow myself to quote a leader in Bergen's Official Journal about challenges for the teacher, who mentions the theme interpellanten addresses today, as I thought Bergen's Official Journal in its leadership article well described: ‘Friendly neural training — without written examination — will make the Norwegian subject poorer and Norwegian elephants less knowledgeable. Especially for those who, out of curiosity, will make the subject less important. It's a fake bypass, which the new witch can do without. However, for learning outcomes, it must be a challenge to make innovation training more exciting. It will be more constructive than joining the cheerleader in the Young Right.» It seems to me that I stand by myself, and I will not comment on it any more. When the research, which I am talking about, clearly indicates how important it is that the texts that students read are written so that both reading and writing weak elephants and forward-looking elephants can understand them, this is a powerful signal to both textbooks authors and publishers about how important the structure of the texts is. Probably this is more important than whether the text is in a book or a new Norwegian. From the above, I do not want to open up any freedom of choice in the Norwegian language with a view to reducing the written training on the page. It will, in my view, weaken the position of both the national font culture and our national literature. Students need to develop linguistic tolerance and learn about the particular Norwegian language situation. Because we have two equal written goals in Norway, as well as in Sami, many people will come to the situation that they have to use both book goals and new ones in their work. It is therefore important for Norwegian elephants to be able to develop a competence that makes them active users of Norwegian font culture, while learning to understand and use other languages. I believe that this is best done by getting knowledge and training to use book goals and new ways to develop both stanchions and skills. Instead of reducing this training, I will focus on a more offensive procedure and work for better training in the secondary objective, both in the teacher training institutions, in the primary school and in the further training. I refer you to the answer I gave on 26 May this year to a question from Rita Tveiten. There I said that I would inform teachers' educational institutions about the research work and the conclusions of the reports on the experience of common language textbooks, and ask them to follow this up in the teacher's education. The Ministry is now working on this follow-up. It can certainly, as the representative says, create better strategies for a holistic approach to language development, development of the Norwegian language, as well as better ways of dealing with our literature and intellectual heritage. When it comes to the specific question that the interpellant has about research, I would say that there is a need for more research on this topic. For, as I've tried to detect, there are mostly points of opinion in articles that are often built on a random basis. That's why I'm open to defining methods to achieve the goal that I perceive we're a few about, better allocation of cultural heritage and better language development, and I want to clearly put these attempts in place to better define why we have the consequences that part of this research shows. I'm not going to give you a general opening for freedom of choice, but I'm going to be open to try.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e510	That teachers who have a positive attitude to what they teach achieve better results than teachers who have the opposite, you probably don't have to do any research to document. It is self-evident and applies in all areas. That students who are motivated to learn achieve better results than students who are not motivated to learn is also not something that needs to be documented through research. That's obvious. But the figures referred to by the Council of State from School Focus No. 4 shows that this is exactly where the problem lies. I did not realize that there was anything concrete in the Council's response that showed what he would do to replace that situation with a completely different situation. In addition, the extent of the problem is significantly greater than that of the problem, because a very large proportion of teachers who today come from teacher training institutions do not master both forms of Norwegian writing itself. And no matter how good you are, I still have not encountered a pedagogue who is able to learn from himself something that he cannot himself. I think the Council of State is underestimating the extent of the problem quite radically. And I'm sorry to say that I think he's stuck in the coercion that it's the fiction that all the Norwegians are going to master both versions of the Norwegian language tradition, which is the very essence of the native language training. Well, that's not true. And that state council from the Official Journal of Bergen, I must say, was an unusually small quoted quote, because the content of the quotation is quite on the side of the point. The training in written page cases is not a subject – Norwegian is the subject and Norwegian is the subject to be strengthened. And then the question I asked is still unanswered by the Council of State: Is there any other justification for the requirement of drill in written side cases – that is, there is any reason for it other than the principle of law that if you are employed in public service, you should be able to answer an enquiry in the same language as it has come in? And is it possible to justify that requirement in a sensible way in today's Norwegian language situation? At my discretion, that's where the key is. If that requirement is not a meaningful form of policy, the full justification for the written lateral training shall be omitted. I agree with the Council of State that it is the task of all children and young people growing up in Norway to be equally familiar with all parts of our Norwegian script culture. Of course it is. But that can't motivate the idea of being able to write both parts yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e531	The representative's salary says I'm stuck in a fix. I doubt that there's a quite right representation, because for me this is about several things. First of all, with the fiction and the claims of the representative on the payroll. Wages and salaries argue reasonably well for a position, but that is an argument. Also, the pay has no research covering for their claims in relation to what the interpellation is actually about. I am therefore more involved in developing experiments and peer research that gives us more evidence of what works. Then this has other sides, says the representative Wage. Some years ago I was in the OECD and received a good deal of research on Norwegian and international schools. When the students were tested at an early stage in the children's ball, it turned out that we were monthly below average. We were just in the middle of the average when we got up to the next level, but as adults it turned out that we had a readability far above the average, and far above it. The French had. The reporter explained this in the following way: French is a beautiful language, but has developed little as a language. It's been a little bit of a change in the writing language for hundreds of years. One must have a good baccalaureate to read science literature and some newspapers beyond – cause, president – see and hear level. In retrospect, he was going to give an explanation. He didn't have any research to document it, but he said it was well possible that the reason was that Norway has had a continuous language debate. Both Norwegian languages are very close to the Norwegian language. That's why it's easy for mature people without a good baccalaureate to be able to read newspapers and fiction. This shows that the language situation we've had and have in Norway is a value in itself. We have a little bit too little knowledge of a part of this. That's why we're strongly expressing our opinion. I am therefore involved in further research in order to gain more knowledge, but it is not responsible to do so in the loose air, as I experience that the interpellant is trying today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e544	There is an unexplained question Inge Wohnung asks the Council of State. What kind of freedom of choice in the Norwegian field is what he has in mind, and what effort does he think should be focused on national literature? The background of the question is: Norwegian language is under strong pressure.It is necessary to strengthen what he calls ‘our national script culture’. Doubts have arisen in what he calls ‘research environments’ and between what he calls ‘school people’ about compulsory training in side goals is a forward-looking contribution to strengthening font culture. Let us immediately conclude that the representative does not conclude with a question about how we can strengthen Norwegian font culture. He asked if students should not be allowed to read literature instead of writing Norwegian. If we're going to strengthen our font culture, we're not going to start by making it possible to dissociate one of the two official target forms in this country. It would be a strange strengthening of the font culture. But if we look at the debate that Inge Wohnung refers to, the question becomes clear enough. There is a paragraph in parts of the Right's work to make it possible to choose newnormously away. In this question, as you know, the Right is strongly divided – the optional populists are opposed to the cultural conservatives. And despite the fact that wages have fit to use the terms «national writing culture» and «national literature», it is not cultural conservatism that he is going on in this matter. The premise for the pay question is as crazy as they could have been. Firstly, the debate in the press has recently shown that a researcher has raised doubts about the side measure. But the doubt rests on the premise that nothing is being done to create a better attitude to the negativity of the students. Professor Kjell Lars Berge also says that society cares too little about the new-surgery ‘and has put in place an invisibility strategy where the new-surgery has been subjected to power abuse’. Wages and salaries are now asking the government council to make newsearch even more invisible. Schoolmen, to whom wages refer, may be so often. The magazine School Focus No. 4-99 is clear in its conclusion on the place of learning that the new job must be an independent subject in the school. Another premise behind the pay question is that the work on the side goal makes the results worse in the main goal. This has parts of Right claimed, while other parts of Right know that this is a statement for which there is no basis. Editor Per Egil Hegge in the Evening Post argues that «those who write the best goals are the ones who started out with new Norse». The students complain about little or no teaching, little exciting teaching methods and negative teachers. This is where the challenges for the Norwegian profession lie, and this can be done. Something should be done about it. It takes a certain level to see this, and I'm glad that a lot of the elephants actually do it, despite the bad teaching and negative grips being made active, and the holds of the new witch is the Young Right who creates and builds up to reinforce. I'm sorry. I will not include the quotation from the Official Journal of Bergen, although I also had it with me. But I don't think it's the Council of State that's on the side of the debate, but maybe the representative's pay.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e586	The representative Rita Tveiten just asserted what is always under discussion in this type of debate, namely that Inge Wohnung wanted to make the new Norway even more invisible. That is what the whole debate is about. We're talking about a side goal, we're not talking about newnorm. Now we have to accept that here the main goal is varying from part of the country to part of the country. Also in the Progress Party there are many, especially in the House of Representatives of the Tveiten, who do not use the same main target form as for example. The representative Wage and I. They're glowing for their nostrils. And they must be allowed to be. It's a choice they've made. But do these people have to be forced to learn book goals in addition to their chosen main language? I don't think so. They must be allowed to choose freely, exactly, as the Council of State said, because it is so similar. We understand each other. There's no problem. We understand what we're writing, we understand what we're saying, if we want. But if we don't understand, it doesn't matter if we're all talking bookkeeping, because that's impossible. This is precisely what the representative for Wohnning said so well, to take care of the Norwegian language. If our language is said to be worthy of protection in terms of cultural history, we get to hope that the whole thing can be done by the public in a much better way than what the public seems to be capable of doing, for example. culturally protected buildings, which very often stand and rot on their roots. I did not want that for the Norwegian language. But the whole must be taken care of, not grumbling around and a constantly intrusive struggle for what should be best. In the United Kingdom, there are quite a number of languages that are out and going, regardless of parts of the country. They are partly so different that if it had been the main language, people in Scotland had not understood people who lived across the border with England – not to talk about the Welsh population, it had been something entirely to itself, and should probably not have been under Her Majesty's rule at all. This I think should be a cross of thought. It must be better to take care of one language and accept the others than to fight in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e595	The representative's salary shall be commended for initiating a polite but deep-seated debate. I understand that the aim is to strengthen national font culture, because he feels that this is threatened by other languages. The measure outlined is the freedom of choice, the freedom of choice to give room for concentration on common national literature. But when did freedom of choice give the opportunity to strengthen the common font culture? For what is freedom of choice? There's just the possibility of choosing away, of specializing, going deep, with the danger that it gives for what I would call narrow-trackness. I don't think linguistic narrow-trackness is a strength for our national writing culture. I believe, however, that it is a wealth to be able to read and write both writing languages in Norway. I do not agree with the representative's remuneration that the secondary education alone is justified by responding to the letters of others in their writing language. The representative then forgets our entire national language history. In fact, Scripture language can only survive by using it, and it's about actually getting as many people as possible to use both of the writing languages, because it's a prerequisite for both of them to survive. We have learned from a purely linguistic point of view that the writing languages are approaching each other. I'm not so afraid of such a development. I actually think the time is working for a further approach. But what measures should we rather talk about? I actually think it's pretty simple. I think it's about being happy to read good literature and good articles. Because it is about developing language usage and understanding and seeing the variations in the content, function and value of words. It detects you by reading, and through reading you also want to use the language yourself – in writing. We have major challenges in Norwegian training. It's actually about getting the joy into the subject. It presents us with major methodological challenges. A review of the professional understanding is needed. Reading and writing belong together. I would like to conclude that freedom of choice in the Norwegian language actually leads to a deterioration instead of a strengthening of Norwegian writing language. This must then be contrary to the main objectives of the Right School Policy, but probably entirely in line with the City-Høyer Language Policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e610	I want to thank you for coming up with this theme. In Norway, we have a lot of dialects. It's a wealth we'll take care of, and it's, among other things. one of the reasons why we actually have two dimensions. The ball shall ensure training in both. This means that if there are weaknesses in any subject, we must not react to removing the difficult, but rather strengthen the skills where he is weakest. Only in this way can Norwegian schools in general and the Norwegian profession in particular develop to improve, and will pay be included? In any case, parts of the Right before have declared that they are for a knowledge school. Otherwise, Bokmåls-Right stubbornly asserts that they are not against new Norse, only against mandatory page targets. But when required side measures, it's the same thing as new Norse for 80 pst. by the students, what? Here you have to think a little bit of yourself. The size has a responsibility for both the Norwegian languages, and it is today the newnorch that needs the most strengthening. Many elephants who start with new Norse as training targets in the base ball later switch to book goals because the book - size press is so big. We don't know if why young people change from nynostic to bookmaking. But we know that it is important that the teacher also has the necessary ability to learn from him, which also Lilletun was inside. Therefore, we also need to put the search light on teacher training. Otherwise, it is clear that I agree that literature must be strengthened in school. Maybe there's the nine-Norwegian scientific literature, the pay here is thinking about? When the trade plans were adopted, I noticed that there were a few new Norwegian authors who were notable. Garborg, Vinje, Duun and others have little room in the curriculum. It's easy for teachers to choose. In recent years, many teachers have complained that the Norwegian subject has been a ‘sack’ subject that needs to include much of the new subjects and knowledge that the school has used to integrate into education. For the central part, it is completely inappropriate to reduce the size of the side dimension. the newnorse's place in the school. And in such value questions, we never trade horses. Nevertheless, we are willing to look at what can be done to improve Norwegian training. And with such a starting point, the Right is welcome to cooperation. Otherwise, there should be a greater commitment for several elephants to be able to start with new Norse training targets from the first class. Then, as a page measure in the school, there will be no problem at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e629	The representative Wohnning shows a commendable commitment to Norwegian font culture both by addressing this as a topic for debate in Stortinget, and, as we also note, by his reference to linguistic bombs in notes, etc. But it is asked whether he does not block a bit even when he believes that the Norwegian script culture is strengthened by attacking the training in written page targets, which is in fact an attack on new Norwegian. Nynorsk is an extremely important part of Norwegian font culture, and I would like to underline the importance of training in the Nynorsk writing language for a good understanding of Norwegian language, whether you have book goals or new Norwegian as your main goal. This is about far more than being able to respond to official letters, as the pay cuts the problem to. Wages and salaries are clearly concerned with the future direction of Norwegian education. It's a matter of course. However, there is a question of whether wage proposals are particularly forward-looking. I also thought he had a knowledge view where culture and history had an important place. In the view of the Left, we need to better manage cultural and linguistic heritage so that we do not lose competence and ability to disseminate cultural heritage. It's a further development of the Norwegian profession we need, not backward looking and language-policy know-how. If lateral education is too poor, and there's a lot of evidence to suggest, it's the one we have to do something about. We need concrete measures to improve Norwegian education. And there's a lot to do here, there's no doubt about it. It is good that the Council of State takes it up and initiates research into language training. The claims that the students would have more time for their main goal if the side goal were gone are a defensive and little educational way to strengthen the main goal. There is a lack of understanding of the importance of the side objective in order to gain a complete understanding of Norwegian language development, and thus a basis for writing well Norwegian. If wages are really concerned with Norwegian writing languages, he should be more involved in the threat that Norwegian languages face strong competition from English, especially in the virtual world. It is therefore important to strengthen Norwegian-language programme development and development of Norwegian-language CD-ROM and other new media, as the Government expresses it in the Adultås Declaration. These are measures aimed at addressing the real challenges facing Norwegian writing culture. Attacks in neo-Norwegian as written language in school should be a debate we had finished, and at least it should not be faced by the Cultural Party Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e643	The debate on language engages. This concerns both identity and personality. Unfortunately, not everyone has always felt the same way in our country when it comes to using their natural language. Fortunately, we have come very far in a positive path. They feel much more confident about using both the natural neural and the dialect they fall for, and we can not least thank important trendmakers, both in the media and in other forward-looking societal positions, who have used and are not least using neuron in a natural way. But our country and our people have their history, their traditions and their culture based on nature, history, etc. We have partly coincident history and culture with other nations, but we also have clear elements that are our peculiarity. This has helped us acquire our own national identity. Our two writing languages are the result of, or part of, this identity. The language that identity reflects is also ideal. That's what we see when kids play. In any case, in the areas I come from, we see that in a little formal situation, they often use booksets when playing. But we have experienced the opposite as well. We who grew up in the Middle Ages, think of a Western series called Krutröyk. It was the lyrics in new Norwegian. Then one spoke about children, among others. Here in the city playing Indians and whites, and who with great overtones aim at each other and say, "Stogga, or else I will shoot!" I agree with what your salary says, that it's in the classic national literature that the good rides are in. That is well said, but I do not fully understand the connection to weaken the position of the side target. I am also indisputable when he says something like that in Norwegian language research, there is a tendency that we put a lot of the past behind us. At least this can be interpreted in two ways. I don't mean to put the past behind us. On the contrary, respect for the past is a premise to meet the future in a good way. I don't think of two writing languages as a problem, but as a wealth. When your salary says that a learner cannot learn from something that he himself cannot, I found that it proves that there is a need for good and renewed training in our two writing languages. There is a need to maintain mutual respect and acceptance also in the writing language of others.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e656	It is commendable that the interpellant Inge Wohnung focuses on this important topic. It's a theme that occupies a lot of students in Norwegian school and many of us who have gone to this school. The party notes that questions have recently been asked by several teams about compulsory education in written language. We note that a great deal has changed since the introduction of the side-target style. Among other things, it can be mentioned that the writing language is currently subject to considerable competition from sound and image media. As a result, the position of the writing language in society is generally weakened. It is also a fact that the Norwegian language is under attack from English as a global language through these media and through data and the Internet. If we look specifically at high school, it is also a fact that high school is no longer a sample school, but a school for all young people. A large part of today's school students are confused linguistically when they learn two ways to write Norwegian. This is especially true because the students are not as eloquent in writing as before. In the view of the Progress Party, it is illusory to believe that the students are getting better at the main goal of learning the side goal. On the contrary, students need more time and opportunity to develop their own writing language. It is also a fact that more students than before in the Norwegian school have difficulty reading and writing, which makes training in written sidebars extra difficult. In the light of these factors, it seems appropriate to re-assess the cross-target approach and to conclude that compulsory written secondary education should be abolished in school. If necessary, this can be offered as an optional subject. Such a solution should enable students to be made aware of the cross-measure by naturally integrating the oral part into education for the main objective. I would like to inform you that, in the context of the Stortinget's review of the reform 94 evaluation, the Progress Party will present a concrete proposal asking the Government to abolish compulsory written secondary education in school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e671	I have some years of experience as a Norwegian teacher in high school, there are quite a few years back in time. But I must say that when I have been sitting and listening to this interpellation debate, it strikes me that it is part of my fellow representatives who have a relatively distant relationship with the reality they are talking about. I must also say that I find it somewhat disappointing that the old conspiracy theories are still lightly alive, and that the one who raises the issue of the development of Norwegian science is immediately accused of the real purpose of ‘making the newnorse even more invisible’. It's a rather highly developed ability to examine hearts and kidneys. It's not an attack on the New Norse as a writing language to raise the question I'm doing, if the legacy we're dragging on is the right legacy to bring into the next millennium if we want to read -- allow me to read the picture, president -- the writing on the wall. Also in this house you should soon be able to read it, because you are presented daily for documents written in such a grossly bad Norwegian that you almost have to be ashamed to read it. It's written by people who have gone through this whole apparatus, who even have university education, and who are unable to write a clear and intelligible Norwegian. That's where the challenge lies. It is essential for me to state that we do not have two Norwegian writing languages, which, after speaking, have spoken in this debate. We have one Norwegian Scripture tradition, but it exists in two branches. That's what makes the pedagogical task so insanely difficult, that freedom of choice today in the writing norms is so great that it's almost impossible to separate the two forms from each other. How in the vastest world should a teacher then be able to solve the pedagogical problem? How should the teacher be able to motivate the student to exert himself when it is not possible to make the student understand what motivates all other language training, that is, to be able to understand people to whom it was not possible to understand, because it remains the hard core. Today, it is not a single Northman who has the slightest problem reading a text written in the other form. That's what we have to start getting inward, and then we have to ask, is it a meaningful use of time to keep pretending that we all think we should be able to master both forms equally well?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e680	It's good to note that some of the topics that have sparked the Norwegian community into a living debate in our recent history, including the language situation, are still really causing it to lie a little bit in the hall, even in a hectic collapse conclusion. I think that's good. I won't say much at the end. But when it comes to peril, it's clear that it's always a difficult discipline to be sure of who's been close to contact. It'll depend on a lot of different circumstances, which I'm sure we'll get more knowledge about, as I said in the introduction. When it comes to the conspiracy theory, I just want to comment that I'm not in the same representative of the pay saying. That's not what was measured in my answer, but the way in which the representative wants to take action to achieve the goal he mentions, as we have agreed, will have the kind of consequences that many have had in this debate. There is no conspiracy theory, but we look at what will result differently. So to the question of two writing languages or not. There is a decision in the Stortinget on equal opportunities, a decision on two similar Norwegian writing languages. If one reads that decision, I think that one might end up having a philological debate, but there is no doubt that the reality is that there should be a smooth two things, there must be two different things a plaintiff. A match doesn't match. So, at least in my opinion, there must be two written languages we're talking about. Hairy the hardball got a challenge from the woman saying that now it was time he stopped fighting so much, and rather got people trying to become friends. And he said, "How are we going to do that?" And she said, "Yes, I think people have to start talking more together." Yes, he said, then it is absolutely necessary that we all learn to speak new Norwegian! If that was the correct answer to that problem, I don't know, but I'm sure this isn't the last time that the Stortinge discusses our language culture and our writing languages.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e693	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e704	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e743	To Case No 4 and 5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-11.ana.ud30e752	There is no record.
