ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e40	The representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e48	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e53	I suggest Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e58	Øyvind Korsberg has been proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Korsberg is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e79	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Anne Enger Lahnsteinintenriksminister Knut Vollebækstaatsrådet Magnhild Meltveit Kleppastatsrådet Odd Roger Enoksen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Bjørn Tore Godal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e101	I would like to address a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: NATO bombing in Serbia and Kosovo aims, as you know, to reduce President Milosevic's ability to carry out continued attacks on the Kosovar Albanians by destroying as much as possible by the Serbian apparatus of power. The working party agrees with this main line. It is equally clear that great emphasis must be placed on avoiding civilian targets, and finding out who and what is responsible for the tragic bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade. The bombing itself does not create peace; it must be at the negotiating table. The core point now is the establishment of an international military force with the UN mandate, which can provide the displaced refugees with security to return. What is the status of such a force? How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs assess the role of Russia in the contacts that are now taking place? And what could be the effect of Prime Minister Primakov's early appointment today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e112	First, let me thank both the representative of Godal and the Grand Council for the broad support given to the Government in relation to NATO's actions in Kosovo. I think it is important that we stand together in this matter, in the same way that, of course, also became clear during the VEU meeting in Bremen yesterday, where 28 countries supported NATO's actions. At the same time, I fully agree with the representative of Godal that what is important now is also to get a political solution, and it is actively working for that. A Security Council resolution is being first and foremost designed to provide the framework for the overall settlement of peace, and within this framework it will also provide a military force. I also believe that Russia today understands the need for a military presence in Kosovo in order to implement a peace plan. You can't expect the refugees to return if there's no such strength. What you then discuss further, and as I think it's something too early to say exactly what the outcome is of, is how to put this force together. There is enough evidence of NATO participation – in the form of a NATO core, a NATO command structure has been discussed, but that this can then be wrapped into a form of UN containment that gives the UN total responsibility for this through this Security Council resolution. Which countries are going to participate, as I said, I think, something too early to say, but there is a consensus on this, as far as I can understand. The importance of Prime Minister Primakov's resignation is difficult to say. It happened today, and of course we will follow this closely. But that Russia will continue to be actively engaged, I think it is absolutely certain.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e121	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. One of the points of further work is to convey a solution to the international peace force, to President Milosevic. After all, it's going to be a completely jumping point. How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs assess the contacts that are taking place with it in mind, and how does he view the somewhat conflicting signals from Belgrade regarding the various forms of acceptance of such an international force?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e126	I guess the fact that we get different signals from Belgrade is not so strange. Here, too, there is a need for a certain domestic political game by Milosevic, and it is of course difficult for him to accept publicly an international military force in the light of what he has said so far. The talks I have had with Russian leaders, both Foreign Minister Ivanov and former Prime Minister Chernomyrdin, indicate that the Russians have clearly communicated to Belgrade that they must expect to accept an international military presence, as I said earlier. The composition of this will be discussed, but the Russians, as far as I can understand, have made it quite clear that this presence should be military.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e133	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e136	I was a little surprised at one of the wordings of the Foreign Minister, that he said that one could see ‘not at all’ that there would be a NATO core in this peace force. In that case, it is probably a very careful formulation. The point is that the goal of success for NATO's action is that the Albanian refugees dare return to their homes. The condition for them to dry back to their homes is that they trust the military force that is in Kosovo. Is it not true that this means that not only must one see a NATO core, but that NATO must have a very significant part of the strength to stand in Kosovo, precisely in order to gain the necessary trust among the refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e143	Now it is that I am often horrified by what I have said in oral Question Time and other oral presentations in this Chamber, when I see the written record. Usually I get it in my office to see through, and then it's just me who experiences it. Now I'm going to be confronted with it, and I'm going to be willing to take back the enough in this context. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Petersen, that NATO participation in the international force must be taken into account. The reason I used this enough was that it probably wasn't quite clear which countries to participate in. I believe that NATO will insist that the United States participate. It also appeared at yesterday's VEU meeting. But it's probably going to be a little bit further inside of Belgrade. It's been discussed that you could imagine the US forces in Albania and Macedonia as support forces, while someone else was in, so I don't want to get completely tied up here to who's going to join the inbound force, but it's going to be a strong NATO presence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e153	Grethe G. Fossum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e156	If we were to find ourselves in a situation where the ground forces had to step in, is it not also the case that negotiations have taken place with the parties in the situation in Kosovo? I am concerned that one has contact with Milosevic through the Russians and commits him in some way. But what contact is there with the other side of the conflict, the Kosovo Albanians? To what extent are they committed to a peace that can come, and how will the UCK respond to the demands of the international community?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e163	Let me first say that when the representative Fossum talks about ground forces, I assume that this is a situation after a peace agreement has been concluded. There is good contact with the UCK, especially through its exile government established in Albania, led by Prime Minister Thaci. This is an exile that is initially composed of different parties, and where LDK with Rugova should have been sitting. Very familiar they have not taken the seat. But it's discussions with the UCK. What we see in front of us is a demilitarization and a disarmament, including by the UCK, to bring about peace. It's not particularly excited about UCK. So we need further discussions with the UCK on their understanding of the implementation of a peace agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e172	Erik Solheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e175	I think many people agree that one of the major mistakes that have been made in the Balkans in recent years is that they have tried to solve the problems one by one – such as: That in Dayton, Kosovo was forgotten to solve Bosnia, and then the whole problem was moved there. Last week, SV had a delegation in Montenegro. They came home with the very clear message that everyone in Montenegro fears that a civil war can start there at any time. Any spark can cause it to break out, and the democratic forces in Montenegro are terribly afraid to be forgotten by NATO and the rest of Europe in the situation they are now in. When thinking and planning for a post-war post-war situation with an international force in Kosovo, my question is: Are similar efforts also planned in Montenegro? What initiatives can Norway now take to ensure that there is also a peacekeeping force in Montenegro that can prevent Montenegro from becoming the next chess piece in the Balkans? What other initiatives can we take to strengthen the government of Montenegro? Can we help to ensure that the government of Montenegro becomes an active participant in international diplomacy at any conferences after a solution?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e184	Let me first say that I am pleased that SV sent a delegation to Montenegro that came after the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had had a delegation there. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs provided both political and financial support to the government of Montenegro, and there is no doubt that it was both well received and highly valued by the authorities of Montenegro. As far as Montenegro's situation is concerned, this is something that we follow up about daily in the NATO context, in order to avoid the bombing of Montenegro's target. We think that would be to the detriment of development. At the same time, we are also discussing with the UN how Montenegro can be included in a Security Council resolution that will provide the basis for a peace settlement for Kosovo. I fully agree with Mr Solheim that it is important that Montenegro should not be forgotten in this context. In this context, I believe that it will also be possible to bring in a peacekeeping force. In today's situation, we must not forget that Montenegro is part of Yugoslavia and that it is therefore not possible to bring in a peacekeeping force there, but as part of negotiations, we believe it is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e193	Well, let's get on with the main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e196	I'll have to ask the Social Minister a question. After following the debate in Holmgang yesterday, where the Minister of Social Affairs was present in the panel, I put the impression that the Minister of Social Affairs did not answer questions, among others. the relationship between the construction by municipalities of nursing homes and nursing homes now in relation to older people’s investment. I'm sitting with a feeling that a lot of nursing homes are being built because it's cheap, and that nursing homes are getting down priorities. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Social Affairs to inform the Stortinget about the number of sick homes versus nursing homes it is now being built, and whether the Minister of Social Affairs sees the danger that we are now in the process of getting a housing reform and not a reform that is adapted to the needs of users.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e203	It was not my intention to let be answered any of the questions that were asked yesterday evening in Holmgang, but there were very many questions asked, and it is nice here today to elaborate further on an area that I am extremely busy with and follow closely. The action plan for the care of the elderly, which is now due to run for more than four years, places of employment in relation to the distribution of health care facilities and housing facilities have been established in relation to this. Then it is quite right that the representative Nesvik points out here: So far – when we are in the second year of the action plan – there is a clear overweight of care homes. It is not unexpected. It's easier to get care homes, and it's expected that it will be so special in the first year and also in the second year. We're going to have a review after the first two years, to look at how the distribution is then, given that it's important to secure both health homes and nursing homes. Let me also say that there are transitions between the municipalities. What's important isn't primarily the frames, whether they're in residence, or whether they're in hospital, but how they're manned, whether they're all day staff, so that the most nurturing people get the care and care they need.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e212	The Minister of Social Affairs says that a review is to be carried out after two years, but when the municipalities submit their reports, the Ministry does have an overview of what is being requested at any time, so it must be possible – at least later – to get an answer to the number of nursing homes versus nursing homes being built. My question, to which I did not receive an answer, is: does the Minister for Social Affairs see the danger that we are now in the process of getting a housing reform and not a reform adapted to the users? As I see it, and based on feedback that at least I have received, there is now a screaming need for hospitalization, but it's being down-prioritized by the municipalities because nursing homes are cheaper and easier to get in place, and that's what's being built instead of nursing places.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e217	A total of 24 400 places with a 2/3 distribution in nursing homes and 1/3 in health care centres are to be built during this period. We follow this, we follow the plans with a separate group from each state and county. There is not always a connection between the plans that the municipalities have, and what eventually remains, because there are changes in the process. That is why I thought it most appropriate to have this review after two years. But I see a danger in relation to the crew, what kind of personnel is involved here to ensure care and care. In order to ensure that hospitals still have a place in each municipality, we have a separate statement about it. New tasks will be assigned to health care centres, and the work will be completed on 1 August.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e223	Bendiks H. Arnesen – for additional questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e226	: I also want to address a question relating to the report from the State Health Authority. My question is: does the Minister for Social Affairs intend to take immediate action beyond the action plan that we all agree on, in order to correct the dramatic situation that is really described in this report?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e231	Bendiks Arnesen now refers to a supervisory report from the Health Inspectorate based on the situation in 61 municipalities in 1998 – a depressing report that tells of unacceptable conditions in many municipalities, and not the one that I associate with a worthy care for the elderly. This is reflected in the elderly plan, the first year, and the municipalities where deviations were detected have been informed – and deadlines – to correct the wrong. This seems to be exacerbating in relation to the other municipalities. It also does the same in the action plan. The immediate measure that I have seen done is that yesterday I wrote a letter to all the spokesmen in the country, where I asked them to address four questions, including: is committed to respect for the individual care and caregivers in their own municipality, whether the staff have access to dialogue with the elected representatives, etc. I can come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e240	John I. Alvheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e243	So far, it has been completely impossible to get a clear and unambiguous definition of what a nursing home with the care and care of luck really is. Enquiries to me – and they are unfortunately quite numerous – indicate that nursing homes are actually unmanned homes to a greater extent in the municipalities. I would like to ask the Minister of Social Affairs if she – and the Department – has made an opinion on, or made a demand for, how to be in a nursing home with good care and care.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e250	In the financing arrangements underpinning it is for the first means to go directly to the buildings – i.e. to the outside – both to health homes and to care homes. In addition, an operational boost is now given to the individual municipality according to the personnel and operational plans in place. The requirement for participation was in 1998, is now in 1999 and will be next year that each municipality can demonstrate increased operation – i.e. they must be added more. That's what makes the first payment 126 municipalities didn't get paid in full – now the number is down to 79.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e255	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e258	On 9 May this year, the day's revision had a notice that 700 people under the age of 50 lived in a nursing home in Norway. The government presented a number of 160 who want to get out of Norwegian nursing homes, which are under the age of 67. My question is, with regard to this figure, does the Government follow up on the development of nursing homes and homes? And can the government say anything about the actual number of younger residents who now live in a nursing home, and any other offer?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e265	I have no reason to doubt the number presented in Dagsrevyen. When we present the figure in the revised budget about 160, it is on the basis of a letter I wrote before Christmas to all the spokesmen in the country, a letter that the statesmen in each state followed up, and then gave a message back to the department. The question in the letter was, who is it under 67 that now lives in the hospital and who does not want to be there? I especially wanted to focus people under 50 years of age. And after that count, the number of people who want to move out is approximately. 160. It's based on what we've been looking at now, how we can use the funds we have in the budget, even better and give the municipalities a bigger boost. We're increasing the operating surplus from $600,000 to $1 million. kr over three years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e272	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e275	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy: the very significant French gas company Gaz de France wanted to take over Saga's share in the Visund field, but the government said no on Monday. It is now very important, both economically and environmentally, that Norwegian gas power should be generated in Europe, to the detriment of coal power. Has not the Government now played out an important opportunity to build an alliance in favour of Norwegian interests?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e283	It is right that the Government rejected Gaz de France's attempt to take over Saga's shares in the Visund field. A letter has been sent to Gaz de France about this. I will not go into any further detail on the grounds, as I have read today in the evening post that there will probably be an appeal, and then it goes to the King in the Council of State. As for the possibility of creating alliances, it's clear that we're concerned about it. I cannot see that the handling we have had of this specific matter would prevent it. I have also announced that in the new oil and gas message that comes after Christmas – that is next year – we will address internationalisation issues and the conditions surrounding alliance construction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e290	It's a shame to say there's special action in the government in this area. In fact, energy markets are now being liberalised in Europe, and it is becoming more important and important for us to be out there where customers are. It seems that the government is quite unprepared for this situation, so my question is, how does the government act to meet and seize the opportunities that lie in getting a more liberalised energy market in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e297	Clearly, we want to be offensive in relation to the internationalisation of our entire oil and gas sector. The background to the revision of the national budget and of the additional communication that came to the previous oil and gas message, St.meld. 46 for 1997-98. Strengthening INTSOK and PETRAD is a desire to strengthen internationalisation perspectives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e302	Per-Kristian Foss – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e305	I am not quite sure if the Council of State in its last answer took the point in Jan Petersen's question: What is the Government's strategy to meet the liberalised energy market in Europe? When the battle to deliver gas obviously becomes stronger and tougher, companies, including the state oil company, believe that it is important to intervene with gas sales companies in Europe to win this battle. Why does the Norwegian Government prevent – contrary to the Council of Statoil – from cooperating in this way on a Norwegian basis with partners that can be of benefit to Norway, and to companies, in gas sales in Europe? That's the challenge. That's the strategy we're looking for, we're not asking about the specific issue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e310	So I don't want to go into the specific matter any further.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e315	That's understood!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e320	I believe that we have a clear strategy to build alliances with different partners, precisely to have an offensive attitude to the internationalisation issues that are now coming up in turn and order.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e325	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e328	I'll have to ask the Foreign Minister a question. Many initiatives have been taken for closer cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy, and also in the field of defence policy in Europe. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was yesterday at a meeting in the Western Union where this was taken up. My question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs is about the Norwegian Government supporting the other European governments in their efforts to achieve closer cooperation in this area in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e335	On the Norwegian side, both in yesterday's and yesterday's meetings in the Western European Union in Bremen, and in the NATO Summit and in the past, we have been asked to support the development of enhanced European security and foreign policy cooperation. We see that as important. It is important in the situation we are today – the Kosovo conflict is an example of this – that Europe can carry out crisis management tasks to a greater extent than it has now been possible to do. At the same time, we have also been concerned with Norway's role as a member of the VEU. In the situation we are today, we have full participation for all practical purposes. That is the situation of the six associated members of the VEU. In the process of gradually becoming a part of the EU – I think it will take some time, at least we will go into the next millennium, that is. in 2000, perhaps in 2001 – it is important that we, on the Norwegian side, take care of our interests when it comes to participation in decision-making processes. We expressed this at the NATO Summit. It has also been expressed in the statement by the NATO Summit. And yesterday, in several contributions to the WEU, there was clear support for those VEU participants and NATO countries that are not at the same time EU members. We will follow this up on the part of the Government in bilateral contacts in the first place. We have discussed it with Germany, and we will follow it up with the United Kingdom and France, which have been some of the drivers here after the agreement in St. Malo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e345	The Foreign Minister says, as is certainly right, that the possible transfer of the Western Union to the European Union will take place in the next millennium, i.e. that we can't wait until next year. Then we probably have a year to make sure that we get a system that takes care of the impact we have in the Western Union today. Is it also the ambition of the Government that we should have the same impact on future European cooperation that we have in the Western Union today, that is. that we are in practice fully involved in the meeting and when it concerns the decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e350	I can confirm that this is the Government's ambition level. At the same time, I would also like to remind you that we are not members of the European Union. It is not necessarily just this government, but it is the result of a referendum. When the WEU becomes part of the EU, we cannot initially demand that we take part in some of the foreign policy and security issues discussed in the WEU today. We have to try to find a mechanism that allows us to become participants in the decision-making processes that concern us, where it is also about using Norwegian resources for crisis management. It's our clear level of ambition that we have to do that. But I want to appeal to a certain degree of soberness, so that I will not later, including in this room, be confronted with my promises, which I may not have been able to keep. I want to remind you that this is about the Petersberg principle in crisis management, not the collective defence. It's still in NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e359	Bjørn Tore Godal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e362	Of course, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is right in saying that Norway, as a non-member country of the EU, cannot ask for everything, point to everything or get everything. However, this is with respect to notifying a theme that is significantly different from anything related to EU cooperation. We are fully-fledged members of NATO, and there is no reason to believe that EU countries do not have an interest in securing Norway's extensive rights in relation to the work related to crisis management in Europe. It's our resources and NATO's resources that you want to attract. And why shouldn't we be full participants? What worries us sometimes is the following: what you don't specifically ask for, at least you don't get it. That is why, in practice, there is nothing but associated membership in EU security cooperation in this area that needs to be done to achieve something that is equivalent to the rights we have today. I would like to be confirmed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is his ambition and that it is based on the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e369	What I can confirm is that my ambition is to have full participation in the decision-making processes that concern us. Very familiar have not yet been discussed exactly the forms of this kind of connection. There is no association mechanism for common foreign and security policy cooperation in the EU. So to commit myself to saying that we are going to be associated members, and later maybe have to tell me why we didn't, I won't, President – with all due respect for the representative Godal. But I can confirm that we have a level of ambition that we are going to have full participation in the decision-making processes that concern us, and we are going to do what we can to get the most influence possible. I would like to remind you that the opposition in this room has also praised the Government for the arrangements we have made for Schengen participation. It is said that there is a better system that this government has got, than the one that was before, and that is why we also need to have the level of ambition that we should have the best possible participation process, including in the case of VEU issues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e378	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e381	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy. The low oil prices in the last few years have led to a sharp deterioration in the competitive position of Norwegian pedestal and also resulted in significant cost cuts by oil companies and the supplier industry, mainly in the form of downsizing. The Progress Party has also challenged Arnstad in previous oral Question Time whether the Government was willing to review the framework conditions on the base, and especially in view of the CO2 tax and other taxes that companies have to pay, irrespective of profitability. We have been told that the Government will assess this and bring back measures in the revised national budget. The same answer has also been given by the Council of State in various forums outside this house. There was great disappointment in the industry when the revised national budget was presented on Monday, and no changes were proposed in the fees. Has the government not understood the seriousness of the situation since little or nothing is being done to improve the conditions of one of our most important industries?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e390	I do not agree with Mr Sandberg that little or nothing is being done. In the additional communication on the revised national budget, we have, among other things: announced that we would terminate the production fee. We have made a proposal on a technology development programme worth 100 million for 1999, and we have invested some resources in increasing internationalisation. We have now shown, in the North Sea allocation round, that the proportion of SAD is reduced and discontinued and is not included in new projects that are resource-weak or that have low profitability. We have added new procedures for concessional treatment, etc. So here are a number of measures that go in the direction the oil companies have asked for. Of course, we are concerned about the possibility of unemployment in the yard industry due to what is now happening in the oil industry, and have therefore put in place these measures to prevent too steep a fall. With regard to the CO2 tax, I think it is natural and reasonable that it is assessed in connection with the cancellation of the Quota Committee, which comes to the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e399	I thank you for your answer. Many measures have been implemented, according to the revised national budget, but from the industry’s own team it is said that this is not enough. The Council of State and the Government have also shown in the past that oil prices have increased in recent months, but there may be little evidence to suggest that this can continue. I hope, of course, that's wrong. But does the Government really take the chance that, along with the measures referred to by the Council of State in the revised national budget, the oil price alone will save the problems for the oil industry and the supply industry? Does the government not see the consequences of a fragmentation of the environments of competence that you have built over a long period of time? And another thing: now several thousand jobs in the districts are in danger, among other things. at Aker Verdal in the north of Trøndelag. Will the Council of State take action in one area or another, projects that can be taken up from the archives drawers, to save some of these jobs if possible?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e408	I would like to take as my starting point a concrete element that was mentioned, this with competence. It is very important that, in this situation, we get this done with the state's contribution to a technology development programme, which can just help to maintain competence, and develop this highly competent industry precisely in view of the fact that there may also be projects gradually at a stage where you need new technologies to be profitable. Otherwise, the industry asked for a package of 10 billion, and it is clear that no government can meet the demands of the industries in turn and in order. We managed to do this with the production fee, we got to the technology development programme, increased efforts for internationalisation and a number of system reviews, as I mentioned. So we did not do this with the CO2 tax, but we want to come back to an assessment of it in connection with the Committee on Quotas, as I said. I think that's reasonable, and I think it's natural for the Storting to see that these matters are related.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e415	There will be follow-up questions – Steinar Bastisen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e419	We have just heard questions about changing the framework conditions. Statoil requested the removal of the emergency vessel on the Norne field last year. They replaced it with a ship's boat that was supposed to tow oil lances, but that sank during testing on 3 November 1998. In response to a question, the Minister for the Environment said this should be corrected. Of course Statoil did it to save money, to cut costs. How's the readiness out there in the field? Has Statoil replaced this boat with a proper vessel that can draw oil lashes, or are they still carrying a boat that is not able to be on the sea when it blows as easily as a breeze, to save money?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e428	The President will assume that the representative of Bastisen has boarded the wrong vessel. Supplementary questions shall be addressed in line with the arrangements of the main question, and the President has some doubts about this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e431	I believe that this also has to do with framework conditions. Cutting costs is likely to have to do with framework conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e436	I have to admit that precisely this specific matter I do not know well enough to be able to answer the question. In addition, the safety of the socket is an area of responsibility under the Oil Directorate, which is linked to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, so that it is possible that there is another State Council here that has this responsibility as its responsibility. I don't know about this, but I'd like to look into it, if that's desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e443	Kjell Opseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e446	In the current year's national budget, the Government expects unemployment to fall. The revised national budget now indicates that we can have 30 000 more unemployed over the year and that 22 000 industrial jobs have been lost. Then we also experience that the offshore industry and the yard industry have empty order books. We also know that on the base there are several fields that are smart for development, and my question is: Will the Minister for Oil and Energy negotiate with the oil companies about specific solutions for different fields to get these fields of development that are pending, in active production?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e451	I don't know what concrete fields Opseth here is thinking about. I can just say that with regard to the 15th concession round and the North Sea allocations, it went in order on Monday, and so it's presented to the companies. I have the impression that it was well received as a contribution to getting on with the work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e456	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e459	The question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is very briefly about how it is possible to make a loss like the one that has been made here and that really has astronomical dimensions. Apart from the Russian Embassy in Belgrade, it could not have been a single building in the whole of Belgrade as it was so obvious that you should have drawn on NATO's map, like the Chinese one. What is more important than finding out how this was possible is, of course, finding out what you can do to repair the damage, and I have two questions for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. One is whether Norway now in NATO will clearly go in for NATO to pay the damage that China was caused materially, and, of course, in terms of the loss of human life, the second is that those responsible for such a gigantic loss are fired. Governments and military leaders around the world are going off on the basis of far less fathoms than this. This is simply not acceptable and must have consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e464	Maybe I'm not the only one who uses unrated adjectives in this room. When Solheim's representative talks about 'astronomical dimensions', I have to say with the President's permission that I disagree with him. What has happened is a tragedy, but although I am a career diplomat myself, I don't think diplomatic life is worth more than the lives of other people. We've seen that civil lives have been lost before, and it's still a tragedy, and will be so in the future. But the political consequences of the bombing of the Chinese Embassy are great, and I fully agree with Solheim's representative that it is incomprehensible that something like this could happen. This is why Norway has already addressed this a few times — at the latest yesterday there was a review with SACEUR of this case, and also in general on target selection. And this meeting took place on the Norwegian initiative. We will continue to follow this up today. I also want to say in this room that I am very little satisfied with the messages we have received today that a refugee camp should be bombed, and we have asked for this to be investigated. So far, there is only one Tanjug message that I have seen, but we have to check if this is correct. And that's important. We also received confirmation from SACEUR yesterday that you want to go in and look at the routines, so we will avoid this in the future. Therefore, it is extremely regrettable that this happened again tonight. I agree with the representative of Solheim that it is natural that NATO should pay for the damage of the embassy. I do not agree with him that Norway will decide who will be fired in this case. What is right for Norway to do, and as we have done and continue to do, is ask what is the reason for this, and how we can avoid it in the future. But I think there are others who need to find out who is specifically responsible and, if necessary, to use the word of Solheim’s representative, ‘get fired’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e475	Of course, I agree that Norway cannot pick it out. What I want Norway to go to NATO with – NATO is us – is the very clear view that losers of such proportions also have to have consequences, as it gets anywhere else. For the rest of the world, the war in Kosovo appears in all its brutality and in all its suffering nevertheless as a local European war. The relationship between the United States and China sets the framework for everything that happens in Asia, and is the most important two-sided relationship in the world at all. The relationship between the West in general and China is also of enormous importance, and risking something in that area is simply not a forgiveness. Also in the relationship between Norway and China, there has been a certain freeze after this, and I will therefore follow up on asking what Norway will now do to thaw up our relationship with China, and to make a small contribution from the Norwegian side to ensure that this does not have a long-term effect.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e483	To repeat myself, I fully agree with the representative of Solheim that what happened is very serious, and that the relationship with China is of great importance. But in that context, I also think it is important to mention both the visit of former Prime Minister Chernomyrdin to China and Chancellor Schröder's visit, and the fact that Chinese media are now reprimanding President Clinton's apology. I think it's also a sign that from the Chinese side you want to continue the dialogue we have and participate in the process. From the Norwegian side, we immediately contacted the Chinese Embassy in Oslo and made our unreserved apology for what had happened, and I am not aware that there is any freezing in the relationship between Norway and China. We have plans for a round table conference on human rights, we are going to have a writer's seminar in Shanghai, and these projects go – as far as I understand – according to the plan.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e490	We're going on with a new main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e493	I would also like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. I would like to focus my attention on the EEA Agreement, which is very important for Norway as the main formal link we have with the European Union. Therefore, there is no veto that threatens or goes into exile, without the vital Norwegian interests or security being threatened. State Secretary Haga has stated that the Children’s Food Directive is such a current candidate for veto use, and Councillor Lahnstein has signaled the same thing. The reason is that the EU is forcing us to eat infants who will poison our children. Now several children’s doctors warn, among other things: Ullevål hospital against such veto or exception because an increasing number of Norwegian children suffer from a serious deficiency due to lack of vitamin D. Is it the case that the Government has not carried out the assessment on the basis of a professional justification?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e502	Now I always tend to say that I agree with Secretary of State Haga. In this case, it's not just Secretary of State Haga who's been talking about veto, but I think I've actually said that it might be a current option. Now it's not like we're threatening veto outlaws. This government has been criticized for not using veto, so I think this is a mild exaggeration. But veto is there as an opportunity, and then we're not going to dismiss this possibility either. Other representatives have just underlined the importance of Norway ensuring that we keep our interests in the best possible way, and of course we will also do so in this case. In the case of the Baby Food Directive, like other directives, the professional advice we rely on is. This is technical advice that we have also discussed, for example. in the EEA Committee, where we have meetings. The State Nutrition Council has prepared a report with an assessment of the Babysitting Directive. I must admit that I do not know these statements from doctors at Ullevål Hospital, but of course we should look at them. The case itself is now such that we have taken an initiative towards the EU in order to get the EU Food Scientific Committee to re-assess the Babysitting Directive, in the light of the report we have received from the Food Council. So it's not something that the government as such has invented, but it's a report from the State Nutrition Council. But if further information is now available from doctors at Ullevål Hospital, we will of course take it into consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e511	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it is actually necessary to expand the rationale that has come from the nutrition council of the State. After the war it was common that vitamin D was added to margarine, and that children were also recommended to drink tears. But there might be less margarine today, and in the case of tran, it might be the more conscious who use it. We now see that there is an increase in this deficiency of many immigrant children, and especially in the Oslo area. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State will assess this from that point on, as it now lights a warning lamp from the paediatric doctors who are responsible for these children.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e518	As I said in my first answer, I can confirm that we will take it into consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e523	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e526	I have a question for the Social Minister. The situation in the care of the elderly outside the municipalities has probably shaken us all. Laws, care failure, lack of medical supervision, poor hygiene and the elderly who are under-eating are some of the conditions described in the Health Authority report. And there's a serious lack of routines to ensure quality. Both magnification and government, and not least the municipalities, have a responsibility for these conditions. The ageing effort we have now adopted for the next four years could clearly improve this. But many municipalities also do a lot. Among other things, several municipalities have been competitively exposed to the care sector. It has provided better care for the elderly, better control of services, and money is released that is used for more and better services and for more carers. The elderly are satisfied, and the employees have improved their employment. My question is whether the Minister of Social Affairs will better facilitate the use of competitive opportunities by municipalities to improve care for the elderly and make the best possible use of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e537	I am pleased that the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli underlined the clear improvements that have taken place shortly before the care of the elderly. Someone could get the impression that it's getting worse, but that's not the case. I agree with the representative that there is a need for clear measures to ensure better quality, not least to follow up the legislation and regulations that have been adopted today, which unfortunately are both too little known and too little fulfilled. The representative raises questions about the organisation of competition, and thinks that it will further improve the care of the elderly. To that I would say that I am now working on a big message under the heading: care 2000. It should specifically highlight quality, the contents of both care and care services, as well as in the field of drug protection, as there is a clear potential for improvement here. One of the points to consider more closely is the postponement of competition and, from my point of view, a special alternative to privatisation. There is a good example of this today, but there is no doubt that there is also an example, not least from Sweden, of the fact that competition is not the way to go. I hope to be able to play more on teams with the volunteer organisations, who already have a lot of experience in this field. I hope that they can join the municipalities, as they are in some experimental communities today, but what must be a primary objective without regard to organisation is a more dignified care.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e544	I thank you for your answer. I am a little surprised that the Minister of Social Affairs will not actively support the positive instrument of competition. It's a practical tool. The most important thing for the population is that they receive the care service that they require and that they have good quality and that the public pays for the service. Who performs the service, whether it is public or private, is less important. Some have problems that private carers can make money in the care of the elderly. But if private individuals provide a better care service, with which older people are served and satisfied, which gives employees better employment, which leads to municipalities saving money that they can spend on even more and better services, and to making money on it, then there is really reason to ask what is going on in municipalities in terms of organisation and operation. Does not the Council of State really see that competition in nursing and care services too can be healthy and necessary to improve conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e553	In my view, municipalities will continue to have the responsibility they have today for the care and care sector. This means that in this field, which has to do with services to individuals in a very special situation, there are clear limits to the extent to which the outsourcing can go. For example, individual decisions shall be taken in relation to the care and care of the individual client. I do not draw conclusions today, but I promise the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli and Stortinget a careful assessment of all aspects of this as part of the care 2000 Storing Message, because there is a clear need to discuss the organisation as well as the content of the services.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e561	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e564	I will address my question to the Minister of Social Affairs. Following the budgetary agreement between the Government, the Right and the Advance Party, as is well known, during the budget debate in the autumn of 1998, against the votes of the Labour Party and the SV, the Grand Duchy decided to privatise Arcus with its subsidiaries. I have registered that representatives from the government parties believe this is a good solution, as current owners are aggressively marketing their products. Does the Council of State conclude such an assessment? I have also registered that the new leader of the Centre Party has been busy calling about the Norwegian akevit production, using Norwegian potatoes. How will the Government, through its sale of Arcus and its subsidiaries, ensure Norwegian farmers' deliveries of approx. 20,000 tonnes of potatoes per year, equivalent to one-sixth of the total potato production?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e573	Let me refer to a statement in the revised national budget on how things are now in relation to Arcus. There is no alcohol policy reason to keep Arcus as a state-owned company in isolation. But there are certain questions that need to be addressed, clarified and taken a position on, before there may be talk of selling the axans in Arcus. There are certain monopolies that Arcus has today, in addition to the potato-pricing agreement that the representative Skogholt here points to. It has also been reported back in the revised national budget which is now intended to clarify the area of the Government before it becomes relevant for the sale of axles. For the sake of order, let me stress that it is the Ministry of Industry and Trade that formally handles this matter. But when the representative of Skogholt addresses the question to the Minister of Social Affairs, I assume that it is primarily about the alcohol policy aspects. Let me make it quite clear: I support the proposal made by the Government in the fall, and the decision made in the Storting, but I also support the fact that what applies to my territory in this matter is distributed before the axes are put to the sale.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e582	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I will have my supplementary question addressed to the Council of State for the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. I am still surprised that representatives of the government parties believe that a privately owned Arcus company will conduct a less aggressive marketing. I have registered the statements of the State Council of Enoksen on the importance of ensuring Norwegian akevit production. As you know, the consumption of Norwegian potatoes is very important to farmers. I cannot see from the briefing given in the revised national budget that specific measures are being put in place to ensure the use of Norwegian potatoes in alcohol production. What action will the Council of State take to ensure Norwegian akevit production? For example, the Council of State will: take the initiative to support previous decisions on the privatisation of Arcus? Together with the Workers' Party and SV, the Centre Party has a majority in Stortinget for such a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e593	A decision has been made in Stortinget to privatize Arcus. It's the government's intention to follow up. The Government also intends to follow this up in order to ensure that Norwegian interests are best served. This concerns the production of akevit, and also concerns the supply of potatoes to this industry, which is very important to many farmers who are currently suppliers to Arcus. Attention will be paid to the feasibility of privatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e598	Asmund Kristoffersen – to follow-up questions, if the president understood him correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e601	I have a lot to ask about, but I perceived it so that there is no room for it. The question goes to the social minister – I think – and this is exactly what happens with the production of alcohol, which has so far been subject to state control and activity. Once the State monopoly has been abolished, with the Government, together with the Right and the Advance Party, wanting to privatise the business, it is well expected that more private players will join the process. Then is my simple and clear question: does not the Council of State, with its attitude to the question, fear that private production will make it more difficult to maintain the objective of restrictive alcohol policy in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e608	First to the representative Einar Olav Skogholt, who used the term ‘aggressive marketing’ – as the social minister, according to her responsibilities, of course, is not particularly pleased. Then to the representative of Kristoffersen. So in my answer, and also in the revised national budget, there are several areas that need to be clarified before it can be organised for a hall. In this, too, it is true that if problems and questions arise that can't be resolved in line with what the government has proposed to propose sals of these axes, it may be relevant to reconsider the whole matter. I can't tell you how far we've come in that work, but the assessments are of course done, because there's still some uncertainty in those areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e615	The time for the oral questioning process is definitely over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning session.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e620	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from Jan Johnsen to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who has been away. Question 3, from the representative Jørn L. Stang to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has been removed. Question 4, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Justice, has been transferred to the Minister of Finance, who is directly responsible. The question will, however, be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has been removed. Questions 5 and 6 from the representative Dag Danielsen to the Minister of Justice will be answered by the Minister of Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister of Justice, who has left. Question 7, from the representative Bjørn Hernæs to the Minister of Justice, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 10, from the representative Morten Olsen to the Minister for the Church, Education and Research, will be taken up by the representative Ane Sofie Tmärås. Question 20, from Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister for the Environment, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Questions 21 and 22, from the representatives Jan Johnsen and Anne Brit Stråtvej to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs respectively, are proposed at the request of the Council of State, moved and answered for question 4, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e647	This question, from the representative of Jan Johnsen to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e650	I have the following questions for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘In the Week of Business we could read on 30 April 1999 that last year 2 300 fewer enterprises were established than in the previous year. There is a decrease of approx. 9 pst., and the decline applies to all counties. What measures will the Council of State take to reverse this trend?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e659	The representative Johnsen refers in his question to the figures shown in the Week of Business Week on 30 April this year. These are figures based on new registrations in the Tax DG’s database of enterprises that are obliged to pay VAT. A new registration in this base is considered to be a new establishment. As a result, firms that change their corporate form also appear to be newly established in this context. So the numbers don't give a very precise overview of business start-ups, and so we have to be careful to draw too clear conclusions based on them. However, they provide an indication of development. The figures show that, while 27 100 new enterprises were registered in 1997, 24 800 enterprises were registered last year. However, there is also a decrease in the number of so-called deregistrations, i.e. enterprises leaving the register, and here the changes are larger. 24 400 enterprises dropped out of the register in 1997, but only 18 100 enterprises disappeared in 1998. Overall, this means that net growth was higher in 1998 than in the previous year – 6,700 enterprises in 1998 compared with 2,700 in 1997. I think there are several reasons for the difference between 1998 and the previous years. The success of several firms in 1998 at the same time means that fewer firms went bankrupt and dropped. This is very pleasing, but there may also have been less room for new enterprises in developed markets or product areas. At the same time, unemployment fell, so fewer people may have wanted to start their own jobs. The fear of interest and currency markets may also have played a role in last year's development. Having said that, I would also like to stress the importance of innovation and innovation. A large proportion of the farm mass is renewed each year. A study from ECON showed that of some 225 000 enterprises active in 1984, about 180 000 were closed in 1993. Similarly, almost 160 000 of the holdings active in 1993 were not established in 1984. This clearly illustrates the importance for future value creation of the continuous establishment of new activities. A sound economic policy is essential for the development of interest rates, prices and exchange rates, which are some of the most important business framework conditions. The government's budget for 1999 was necessary to ensure confidence in economic policy. At the same time, an active and forward-looking industrial policy is important. Last year, the government presented the Enterprise Communication and Action Plan for SMEs. Here we presented the main features of our business policy. The size has recently joined these main features. This industrial policy strategy also forms the basis for our future efforts. It is the sum of the framework conditions that determine how attractive it is to start new activities. The government's objective is to ensure good and stable framework conditions. This is essential to stimulate entrepreneurship and innovation. I would also like to stress that an active public effort is important, but not enough to bring about the development we want. We also need to change our attitude and facilitate a entrepreneurial culture, so that more rates of creating our own business. By pursuing an active industrial policy and by developing positive attitudes towards innovation and entrepreneurship, we can ensure the necessary value creation even in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e678	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The councils came with very many numbers, and that interests me very little. What interests me is that 2 300 fewer companies started last year. I assume that the government, like many others, looks at the importance of seeing. That's what we're talking about here -- we're talking about seeing, to harvest the page. It must be quite remarkable that a government that went so aggressively before the elections to be the great help of small and medium-sized enterprises is able to get such figures on the table after one year in government. What concrete measures will the Government take to reverse this trend?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e687	I think I have to be allowed to repeat a little bit of what I said in my first answer. I think it is very gratifying that we have a net growth of 6700 enterprises in 1998 compared with 2700 in 1997. This is very important, because it is, after all, all the net growth in the number of enterprises that are the most important. In my previous reply, I also went through a number of the actions undertaken by this Government, which we will be following in the future. It is primarily to pursue an economic policy to ensure competitiveness in relation to the markets in which Norwegian companies operate, to ensure that we get a low interest rate and a stable exchange rate that keeps us competitive. Secondly, through both the ownership message and the business message, as well as the action plan for small and medium-sized enterprises, we have presented a number of concrete actions that will be followed up in the future, both to create and maintain a entrepreneurial culture, which will make it interesting to set up businesses. It shall be facilitated, through public efforts in combination with private capital and efforts, to create the enterprises of which we will exist in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e694	I thank you again for the answer, which was not an answer – there were no concrete measures I got here. But I can ask a more direct question to the minister. One of the points made by the Government before the election was that they would reduce the form field for, among other things. small and medium-sized enterprises. In the period that this government has held, the form field is increasing – by 45, I think. What does the Minister think about this, and will the Minister ensure that there is a rapid reduction in this form as the Government went out and said it would, in order to make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e699	I can't go well with the number when it comes to changing the number of forms that business has to deal with. But I can say that the Government has put in place a project called ‘Simplify Norway’, led by the Prime Minister, where all the departments are involved, and where the Ministry of Industry has a very central role in reducing the number of forms that business, municipalities and most of us have to deal with. It's a very important work. I agree with Mr Johnsen that this must be given priority, and that is what will be done. The fact that the Prime Minister heads this sample, however many governments also participate, and where there is now active work in all departments, I take as a sign that this work is prioritised. And I expect results to be achieved through this work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e707	I will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘The military conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea has been ongoing for a long time. What is done by the Norwegian side to contribute to a peaceful solution?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e716	It is with great regret that we must note that it has not yet been possible to put an end to the acts of war between Ethiopia and Eritrea, despite extensive diplomatic efforts by the United Nations and the Organization for African Unity, OAU. We have also actively supported this work from Norway, both through these organisations and bilaterally with the two parties. Although both parties have now in principle accepted the framework agreement for a solution developed by the OAU, they continue to disagree on how it is to be interpreted, on the areas from which the Eritrean forces are to withdraw and on the manner in which this is to be done. From the Norwegian side, from the outset, we have recommended to the parties – both of whom are priority countries for Norwegian aid cooperation – to find a peaceful solution to this conflict as soon as possible. We have also repeatedly offered our assistance in this context. We have pledged both technical assistance and financial support of up to 1 million. the dollar of making an international demarcation of the border between the two countries. This question is one of the most difficult. We have already paid $500,000 to a separate UN fund for this work. Norway has tried in various ways to contribute to dialogue and direct contacts between the two countries. Among other things, religious leaders from both countries met in Norway last autumn to try to arrive at a basis for a common understanding of the conflict in question. The meeting has been followed up later, without a break-through. We have also tried to maintain active dialogue with both sides, as well as with the UN and the OAU, in order to make our views known and contribute to a solution. A Norwegian delegation led by State Secretary Leiv Lunde made last September visits both in Ethiopia and Eritrea and had conversations with the leaders of the two countries. This has been followed up later with several visits from both countries, and as late as yesterday, on 11 May, we had conversations in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with a minister from Eritrea. In addition, the Prime Minister has also sent several personal letters to the leaders of the two countries, no later than a few weeks ago. Work on resolving the conflict has also been regularly discussed with both the UN and the OAU. Among other things, taken up during the Prime Minister's meeting with UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan in New York on 22 April and during the visit of OAU's current President, Burkina Faso President, Blaise Compaore, in Oslo just after Easter. The government is disappointed that the military conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea is still going on, despite the work that we and many others have done to contribute to a solution. We have also made this clear to the authorities of the two countries. As a consequence of this relationship, we have informed both countries that it is not appropriate to conclude new aid agreements with any of the countries until there is a lasting and stable truce agreement and real negotiations on a peace agreement have begun. Further Norwegian efforts in the peace provisions are being continuously assessed. In today's situation, we find it most appropriate, first and foremost, to support the UN's peace efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e735	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer, which shows that Norway is actively involved in the peace process. I understand that there are many channels in use, but I still want to ask if there are any more that can be tried outside the diplomatic tracks. Norway has a special relationship with these countries through mision and aid work for a long time and therefore has many contacts. For us, it seems pointless that these countries, which have been so close to each other, are at war. We must not forget the rest of the world, although it is the Kosovo crisis that is most in focus today. It's important that someone cares about the human suffering also in Africa. And in the case of the Ethiopia/Eritrea conflict, I feel that there is something more behind it than a border conflict. We are still receiving signals of human rights violations in the region, but the border conflict is overshadowing this. Confidence building is therefore important, and I would like to ask if Norway has the opportunity to go beyond the OAU initiative, which has not led to dialogue on the core issues, i.e. to use some back channels.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e742	I agree with the representative Skarbøvik that we must not forget other conflicts, even though we are now largely – and rightly – engaged in resolving the Kosovo conflict. It's meaningless what's happening down there, and we've also made it clear to both Ethiopian and Eritrean authorities. And I think it's also right, as the representative Scarbøvik suggests, that there are serious violations of human rights, not least in Ethiopia, which we have also raised with the Ethiopian authorities on several occasions. We're using different channels. I think it's important that we support the OAU's work, I think it's too easy to let some of the parties get away with it. As I mentioned, we have had the religious leaders at a meeting in Oslo. We also use Norwegian research institutions and we have used Norwegian mission and church groupings. We've used a number of channels into both Ethiopia and Eritrea – we're going to continue to review it, but unfortunately it hasn't yet come forward.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e754	This question, from the representative Jørn L. Stang to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e757	I would like to ask the following questions: ‘An investigation carried out by the National Audit Office at the five largest equality offices in the country shows that they often violate their own rules of procedure. As a result, taxpayers and businesses do not receive timely treatment of their complaints, which may lead to economic consequences. At the same time, many employees spend their working hours other than dealing with equations. Will the Council look at the resource use of the Equation Offices and ask the tax rate to increase with, inter alia, the treatment period?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e766	The representative Stag refers to a study from the Riksrevision which has recently been submitted to Stortinget as Document No. 3:8 for 1998-99. The study in question, dealing with the use of resources by five large equality offices in the years 1996 and 1997, has been submitted to the Ministry of Finance for its opinion on two occasions. Because Document No. 3:8 Now that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is dealing with it, I do not think it is right to go into this inquiry itself. However, I can refer to the Ministry's comments on the study in letters to the National Audit Office of 23 February and 26 March of this year, respectively, contained in Document No. 3:8. It appears here that the Ministry has a different interpretation of the data from that of the Riksrevision on several points. With regard to the specific types of treatment at the EQS survey, some interesting data are now available on a national basis for 1998. I mention that the Tax Directorate's demand that the processing time for complaints on the ordinary equation be at least 95 pst. the number of cases shall be less than three months, mainly met. For book-keeping reviews where both the tax and tax treatment has been completed, 85 pst were completed. of the cases completed within 12 months. This is five percentage points lower than the performance requirement of the directorate. I would like to point out that the average treatment period for these cases was 6 1⁄2 months. The Ministry of Finance considers these results to be acceptable. Otherwise, case-handling times constitute key indicators in the income management system of the tax administration and in the follow-up of the department. As you know, the government has instructed all state establishments to draw up service declarations by the end of 2000. The Ministry of Finance has therefore requested, in the 1999 Tax Directorate's letter, a particularly detailed report on the results of proceedings, including in the context of appeal proceedings. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Tax Directorate has just sent the Ministry of Finance a report on the organisation of the Equation Management, where the use of resources at the offices is assessed in detail. The Ministry will provide the report with a thorough examination, including a wide consultation of the relevant bodies, before the matter is referred to the Stortinget. In my view, this is a basis for claiming that both the ministry and the tax administration themselves place considerable emphasis on the issues of the representative, Stang, among others. in view of possible improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e785	I am a little disappointed with the Council's response; however, I must thank you for that. You'll look at the ability to get improvements. At least that seems to me to be a very passive attitude. I want to hear more about the private position of the Council of State in this matter, because this has a good deal of sides. When you complain about the tax, there is a great risk that the complaint will remain in place for a long time. One reason is that only six out of ten annual works at the Equation Offices agree to normal proceedings. At the same time, a large number of employees at EQUs spend their working time other than dealing with equations — almost 40 pst. In fact, annual work is used for management, training and administration — and the result is among others. that the Equation Offices are unable to respond to the complaint within the three-month period, a period set by the Equation Offices themselves. I would like to ask the Council of State: will the Council of State take any initiative to impose absolute deadlines to the Equation Offices, so that customers can get better treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e794	Firstly, I refer to my previous response, where I referred to that data for 1998 shows that the requirement to complain on ordinary equation in at least 95 pst. the cases must have been dealt with within three months, in all respects fulfilled. With regard to the use of resources in the establishment, the Evening Post in the statement to which the representative Stang is likely to refer has mixed the cards in some areas. The share of the resources of the Equation Management that are included in the administration and management is, according to the Ministry's assessment, at a precise level, that is probably 11 pst. in accordance with the measures taken by the Directorate-General for Taxation for 1997 and 1998. The total resources used for internal functions are just above the average level of state activities. However, this is believed primarily to be due to the efforts and integration of EDB in the out-of-work professional work, for example. as a central instrument in the equation control. The communications from the Department to the Department to draw up service statements in the same way as all other state agencies will do by the year 2000 and the facts I have briefed here indicate that the state of the Tax Directorate is overall satisfactory, in the Ministry's view.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e803	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I did not get an answer to what I asked for. I asked if it was right to consider whether absolute deadlines should be imposed – that is what I was looking for. In one of the cases where one had to wait in a complaint case, the waiting time was actually over five years. Such a lengthy procedure weakens both the legal certainty and the confidence of the equality offices. The tax collector himself has only one three weeks' notice of complaint, and it seems very strange that there is so much urgency to complain, while at the same time you risk having to wait a long time for an answer. Another unfairness is that the tax is collected at the same time as the complaint is pending, while interest and recovery costs run. This can lead to serious consequences for small traders and individuals. In the worst case, the clerk can stand on the door and take a pledge in the dwelling, while you are still waiting for the tax rate to deal with your complaint. Does the Council of State consider this to be a reasonable procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e812	Of course, it is important that the tax rate complies with the deadlines and objectives set by it for the handling of complaints. I agree with the representative, Mr Stag, that a five-year period of procedure is not, of course, particularly acceptable. It's too long to deal with. Whether it has been assessed to impose absolute deadlines, I will admit that I am not familiar with it, but the objective is of course to be able to deal with matters within the time limits set. The Ministry has also – as I said in my first response, and also in my previous response – asked everyone to introduce service declarations where users should focus as much as possible. The various state agencies have time to draw up such service statements by the end of 2000, and the Tax Directorate has been asked for a particularly detailed report on the results of proceedings and review procedures for 1999 and the Ministry will follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e822	This question, from Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Justice, has been transferred to the Minister of Finance who is the right person, but will be answered by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister of Finance, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e825	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: «In recent times, it has been revealed that relatively many catalogue companies have not complied with either the Accounting Act or the Share Act, the Equation Act, the People's Security Act and others. In Oslo, the Chemist Office has over the last 1 1/2 years checked 38 directory companies, 29 of whom have been reported to the police. Does the Council see any possibility of reducing what may appear to be a ‘unprofessional’ industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e832	The control in Oslo to which it is referred has been carried out as part of the control activities carried out by the tax collectors in the municipalities towards employers under the Tax Payments Act. The primary objective of these control activities is to ensure proper reporting and payment of taxes and charges. The control activities of tax collectors are part of a more comprehensive control activity in the field of taxation, where the County Tax Offices, Equation Offices and the Customs and Fee Seats also play a central role. There are also other bodies carrying out control activities for some other purpose, such as: the credit supervision and the Labour Inspectorate; I don't want to go into this any further. An important part of the planning and strategy of control activities is to set criteria for the selection of control objects. It is a well-known case that in some cases industries are selected for different reasons. Reference can be made to the focus it has recently been. in the restaurant, taxi industry and construction industry. It is important to focus on industries where significant breaches of provisions related to tax law and avoidance of taxes are detected. Increased attention will over time improve the legality and seriousness of the industry. The inspection reveals in some cases, such as in this case, circumstances which are such that the case leads to a complaint to the police. Thus, control activities also play a central role in the fight against economic crime. The Ministry of Finance stated at the presentation of the State budget for the current year that an increase in the number and quality of controls will be a priority task. I believe that the efforts of the Oslo Chemist Office can be a sign that this priority will produce results. Over time, this will result in companies and persons who are not legally and seriously engaged in business either having to cease their business or relocate their business to comply with the legislation. It will be an advantage for the legal part of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e845	I thank the Council of State for the answer. If the Council of State is intensifying, i.e. use even more resources and forces in this area – this is often expenditure on the acquisition of income, i.e. the detection of income-recoverable defaults — at the same time cleaning away those who are unprofessional, so that those who try to follow laws and regulations get to work in a more decent market.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e852	It's a priority task to fight the kind of financial crime that we're talking about here. And as I said in my first answer: the Ministry of Finance has already announced an increase in the number of checks at the time of presenting the state budget for the current year, and that the quality of controls will also be a priority task. I think what we're seeing now is the result of this already working. It is a matter of priority from the Department, and whether there will be a need to give further priority to it is a question to be addressed. We have, as I said, prioritised it for the current year, and in my opinion we already see results of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e859	I thank you for the confirmation from the Council of State that this is something he will continue to work on and spend time and energy on. Now we've been talking about the economics of that type of company, but we also have the customers who trade with these directory companies, and that's another side of this case. These companies often change the address, the telephone number is not correct, and it is then difficult to get access to them with any complaints and questions. I hope that the Council of State also sees this as an important part of it all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e866	To this extent, we are concerned here with another question, which I must admit is uncertain as to whether it is within the sphere of the Minister of Finance. But it is quite obvious that strict control of sectors where unprofessional relationships are being identified must be a priority task on the part of the authorities. The role of the Ministry of Finance is primarily to control economic activities. I recognise as the representative here points out that in this industry some of the things have been pointed out. Of course, it is a task that the right authorities have to take seriously. But I would like to point out that the individual customer also has a responsibility to deal with companies in such a way that you do not give up on things that you can have problems with next time. It's a mutual responsibility here that everyone has.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e873	So we go to the 21st and 22nd questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e879	I have the following questions for the Minister for Local Government and Labour: ‘In municipal, county and municipal elections today, the electoral law is such that persons admitted to hospital from Friday afternoon to election day are not able to use their voting rights. Many of these patients could have used their voting rights if circumstances had facilitated it. Can the Council of State view this in such a way as to enable them to use their voting rights in the future?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e888	Election legislation should, in my view, be based on the possibility for all voters to vote. Of, inter alia Whereas, however, it may be necessary to lay down rules for practical and economic reasons so that, in certain circumstances, some voters do not have such an opportunity to vote; It follows from Section 31 of the Election Act that the prior polling must not take place later than the last Friday before the election. This implies, as the representative Johnsen points out, that between Friday afternoon and election day, voters admitted to the hospital are not allowed to use their voting rights. The Electoral Committee, which will give its vote at the beginning of 2001, shall review the current electoral legislation and make proposals for a new Electoral Act. I therefore think it is natural to leave the sample to assess whether it is possible to change the electoral legislation so that even those who are admitted to a hospital between Friday afternoon and election day are allowed to use their voting rights. I would like to contact the sample and recommend that you look at this issue in more detail. The selection should then consider any practical and economic consequences as well as the coherence of legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e897	I thank you for the answer, which I think was very positive. I understand that the minister and I share the same view of this problem. We should, of course, have that when we know that participation in elections is decreasing. I had hoped that by being quick in speaking, we would be able to get this to the municipal and county elections already now, but I understand the minister so quickly we can't be. Nevertheless, I allow myself to ask the question whether there is an opportunity to get to this already for this choice. If you want, you can!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e904	Yes, it is often that if enough people will, most of it can be implemented. However, I point out that there has just been a change in the electoral law, and Section 31 of the Election Act actually follows that the prior voting should be completed at the latest Friday before the election. This means that it is not possible to amend the legislation for the current year. But, as I said, I want to take an initiative before the Electoral Commission to look at this issue in connection with the revision of the law, which will now continue until the next elections.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e909	I thank you again for the answer. I understand that the train with regard to the municipal and county elections has passed, but I expect that we can have this sorted out for the next big shot. I hope the minister can put two lines under it. I have understood him so that he – like me – is really concerned about this, and that we can sort this out in a practical way, so that everything is all right for the next election.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e916	Now the Council of State is not in such a situation that he can put two lines under the answer. But what I have said is that I will contact the Election Law Committee and recommend that you look at the issue with a view to finding a solution to it. I also think it is important that as much as possible be allowed to use their access to vote, and will therefore address this relationship. But it is the Electoral Committee that will first assess this, and a new electoral law that will be finally adopted by the Stortinget will be promoted. So there are both practical and economic consequences that need to be addressed. But as I have said, I want to make this contact, with a view to finding a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e926	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘In the western part of Agder, several changes are now recorded in different service functions such as Posten Norge BA, Staats vägvesen/Bilbehördet and Equationkontoret. Minor communities are being tapped for vital service functions and important recruitment promotion jobs in districts. How can the Council of State contribute to a greater cross-sectoral focus by the State to avoid narrow, short-term efficiency gains becoming dominant criteria for the implementation of new organisational structures?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e935	There are currently processes of change in several state agencies that may affect the regional distribution of State jobs and the accessibility of these government services. We need to meet the challenges of increasing efficiency requirements and market thinking with new governance – not necessarily to stop rational efficiency, but to avoid unintended negative impacts on districts. Efficiencies that reduce costs may be good for each sector, while local community impacts may be job losses and, as I said, poorer access to public services. One of the most important regional policies taken by this government is precisely to achieve better coordination across sectoral boundaries, so as to avoid these unintended consequences. This was then also underlined both in the Adult Declaration and in my district policy statement in Stortinget on 20 April this year. Of the concrete measures taken by the Government, I shall mention the following: Firstly, the Departments of Trade have ordered that the impact of regional policy on policy changes should be assessed before any changes are decided. This has been done on several occasions, including: in the energy and health sectors. Secondly, the Government is developing an overall localisation policy for State activities. Here the Government will work along two main lines. One is that government tasks covering a national market are increasingly located outside Oslo. The second main line is how the Government is to deal with both the ongoing and future reorganisation and efficiency measures in nationwide state institutions. Individually, such structural changes may be well justified, but the Government wants to see such changes in context in order to avoid the same communities being affected when several state institutions rationalise simultaneously. In particular, small municipalities on the outskirts are very vulnerable to such changes, and the Government is therefore working on concrete measures that can help mitigate the negative impacts on these municipalities. Both the interpretation of new work tasks, the Joint Service Office and conversion assistance in the form of compensation to municipalities for lost jobs may become relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e950	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I know that both the Council of State and the Government are actively working with concrete actions towards the districts. Nevertheless, in his statement, the Council of State finally talks about the main elements of our new localisation policy, says that it is the individual state enterprises that are going to do the things he said now: provide equivalent services, add new jobs to places that are being stepped down, etc. That's good. But: Does the Department receive a subsequent notification – i.e. before the rationalisation proposals are discussed – so that they can intervene on time, before important service functions and offices are gradually reduced? In other words, what does the Council of State have over it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e957	The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has a coordinating responsibility in relation to changes, among others. in State activities that may have a regional policy impact and are therefore involved in processes such as this in such a way as to enable the policy to be fully understood. It is also the basis for the decision taken by the Government to establish such a comprehensive localisation policy, where there is a link between different state institutions that are undergoing restructuring. The Ministry therefore receives a report on such changes and is working towards a comprehensive localisation policy, in cooperation with other departments. Our purpose in this work is that small communities should not be overly affected. In fact, I think it is important that each of these state agencies be held responsible in relation to their own activities, that they also have a responsibility to see if it is possible to assign other tasks to areas affected, and also contribute to conversion assistance where appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e964	So we go back to question 5. Questions 5 and 6 from the representative Dag Danielsen to the Minister for Justice will be answered by the Minister for Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e972	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The violence situation in Oslo is alarming and unacceptable. Exceptional measures are required. Former police officer in Oslo, Willy Haugli, has called for the use of Oslo's 5,000 men's high reserve police force on Saturdays and Sundays to remedy the acute situation. Will the Council of State take such a step to remedy the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e981	Under police duty law, men who are required by civil defence law to serve in civil defence may instead be required to serve in the police, as a police reserve. If the Government so decides, this unit may be ordered to serve when military preparedness or mobilization is fully or partially activated, or when it is aimed at averting or limiting natural disasters or serious accidents. Where important general considerations so warrant, provisions on the obligation to provide services for the maintenance of social order may also be laid down in the Council of State. I agree that it is important to limit violence both in Oslo and in the rest of the country. In this context, I would like to point out that a number of measures have been taken to strengthen the fight against violence in Oslo. This now appears to produce results. The resources of the police are specially strengthened. Last year, the government presented an action plan against violence in public places, ‘Centre of Security’. This is followed up by several actions in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo. From this point of view, I do not think it is appropriate to put the police reserve into ordinary order here in the city. I would also point out that today they are neither trained nor equipped to be a supplement to the ordinary police in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e994	I have to say that I am a little disappointed with the Council of State's answer to this question. I don't think the government is showing enough action. I am fully aware that these do not have the same education as normal police officers, but if they do, for example. Patrols with other policemen, I think that's a good solution. It's very important that you get more police in the streets of Oslo, and especially on Saturdays and Sundays, because it's the greatest amount of violence. The fact that one shows the flag in a way by having police in the streets will in itself be a positive measure. So then I'm going to ask, what other measures, emergency measures, will the Council of State and the Government undertake to address the situation that is? Or does the Council of State think that the situation is satisfactory as it is now?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1003	No, I can confirm that the government and I did not think the situation was satisfactory. On the other hand, we are very pleased that the negative trend appears to have reversed. Crime statistics in Oslo show that, for the first time in a very long time, there is an improvement in numbers. The situation is still absolutely so that there is cause for concern, but nevertheless it is gratifying that developments have turned around. The only time the police reserve is useful was under the OL force at Lillehammer. As I read the lead for this force, it is quite clear that there are going to be very extraordinary situations. I want to say that it is a wrong signal if we say we almost have to have standby mobilization. I believe that the measures contained in the plan presented by the Government, their follow-up and the use of police students, which are now being implemented in the context of the revised national budget, will be important measures.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1015	I would first like to point out that, given that the Minister of Justice is not here today, I am particularly pleased that Lilletun is the Council of State to answer this question, as it relates to the school situation and is about what the Government intends to do. My question to the Minister is: ‘There have been a number of cases of serious violence among young people in the school environment in Oslo recently. Police Department Chief Ola Bakken at Stovner Police Station describes it as a coincidence that violence in the school environments in Oslo has not cost life. What measures does the Government intend to take, with the head of the Council of State, to prevent this, and to avoid this violence as far as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1026	I share the concern expressed by the representative Danielsen about the prevalence of violence in the school environment. Safe conditions at school are an essential prerequisite for a good learning environment. This is why a number of measures aimed at combating violence and bullying have already been implemented. This effort follows up the Government, not least through transnational cooperation. It is particularly important that the fight against violence and other crime be coordinated both locally and centrally. This also applies to measures against violence in school settings. All students go through primary school. It is therefore a central arena for the influence and education of children and young people. However, most of the students are under the criminal valvaldeler. In this way, criminal instruments will have limited application. Substantial in our context is the extensive cross-border cooperation carried out by the police, together with the school authorities and child protection, following up difficult students through various measures, such as: coordinated arrangements. The Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, has carried out a pilot project on school mediation. This project has produced very good results, so that the action can now be continued. In the autumn of 1998, a project manager of his own was involved in assisting primary schools in the implementation of school mediation. Training of key personnel in the counties is now in full swing. School mediation meets schools and conflict councils in developing cooperation. The mediation provides early-stage communication, conflict resolution and conflict management skills for students and is thus a good tool for combating violent conflicts and violence through prevention. Oslo Police District also implements a system for policemen to visit schools to inform about law and order. Many schools have their permanent police officer who can be contacted when conflicts and violence arise that teachers cannot handle themselves. At a high school where there were many violent episodes in the past, a permanent police post has been established. It's already given positive results. The need to maintain the scheme is assessed on an ongoing basis. The Oslo Police Commissioner emphasises that in all police work, prevention should be considered in the first place, i.e. prevention. how to prevent criminal acts and what situations to avoid in order to minimise the risk of crime. Such a way of thinking has an overall perspective and works as a limit, among other things. through awareness-raising activities. There is no exception for schools in this context. At the heart of this work is the discussion of concerns with children who have committed crimes, such as drug abuse. threats, violence and bullying in schools. In the legislative context, improvements are also being made. The penal code § 352a permits the prohibition of wearing a knife or similar sharp object in a public place. I believe that there is reason to believe that such a ban would prevent and hinder the tendency to bring a knife, including to the school. Section 7 of the Police Act allows the police to take dangerous items into custody in order to avert or stop crime, and under Section 10 of the same law, the police may search for a person who is being removed, arrested or brought in to search for weapons or other dangerous items. In this connection, I would like to point out that the Department is now working on an odelstingsproposition, which proposes a new Section 10(a) of the Police Act. The bill is based on the fact that the police in a public place, in situations or in places where violence is easily experienced, can search a person when there is reason to investigate whether the person is in possession of weapons. In my opinion, the proposal could be preventive in terms of lifting knives in general. Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of a coordinated effort to prevent and combat violence, including in school. A broad involvement of public agencies and voluntary teams and associations is a prerequisite for achieving the objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1047	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I will stress that it is doing a lot of positive. Some of the things Lilletun mentioned, I see very positively. Nevertheless, I find it necessary to stress the seriousness of the warning issued by the Chief of Police Ola Bakken. We've had a number of very serious episodes in the Oslo Schools at this point. Since the Council of State affected this by the fact that the police can search on suspicion of a knife, etc., my questions become: Will the Council of State agree that teachers should also have access to this if they find in a given situation that they want to do so? The Council of State will also, for example, assess measures to expel students from school, etc.? What will be done on the attitude side to intensify the attitudes of the students to this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1054	I can without delay inform the representative Danielsen that there is reason to stress the seriousness. I also have to admit that sometimes when you answer, everyone sees who works and all the work that is done, and then one sees that it is not enough, and then one sees that this is difficult. In relation to this, I am highly doubtful that the teachers will then feel that they are in a double situation – a kind of combination of pedagogue and police. On the other hand, I believe that what we are doing now to strengthen legislation otherwise to give the police greater opportunities and the cooperation with the police, however, could lead to a better situation in the schools. So what we're going to do is we're going to put in a lot of holding measures. Among other things, the voluntary organisation is the National Public Health Association’s ‘Step-by-step’ scheme, which is in fact a system of people’s manner, now being used in 600 schools. It's something we strongly support – even the structure up in the classes. So far, it's only been in use up to the fourth grade.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1063	This is the case with the access of teachers to search for a knife. I understand that many teachers who will feel that they can get into a double situation. But the point is that there are many teachers who want to go in and search in such a situation. What I had hoped the Council of State would contribute to was that it would open up for such access. Then the individual teacher gets to assess there and then if you find it appropriate, or if you want to go to the step of calling the police etc. I believe, in isolation, that this is a very important measure, which could address some of the problems facing you here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1068	In isolation, I've thought some of the thoughts that go in the same direction, that the right to search could be useful. At the same time, there are some fundamental landmarks that are important to keep. Therefore, I have to say that according to the contact we have had with both the schools and the educational environment, it is my impression that there is overall a great deal of concern about going into this dual function. In relation to the situation now after the tragedy in Sogndal and some other things, among other things. certain episodes in Oslo, we have said that in relation to the action plan that we want to be in all schools and all municipalities, there are still many missing. When we're going to go into this, my department and the department I'm answering on behalf of, also make sure there's other things we have to reconsider once more. That's why I'm not putting down a final cut-offstone in relation to this. But as I see it today, I am not open to that measure, but many other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1085	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1091	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘The Ministry of the Church, Education and Research has given prior commitments on State support to a project for the establishment of a National Centre of Competence and Welfare at NTNU. The plans for such a centre have only become known after prior commitments on aid were given by the Ministry, so that interested parties have not been given an opinion on the matter. Has the Council taken into account the high level of competence in this area and has it identified the need for such a national centre of competence?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1100	Last year the government announced St. Announcer. No 8 for 1998-99, About the Action Plan for Disability 1998-2001. One of the priority objectives of the action plan is to improve the situation of disabled students under education in universities and higher education institutions. Of the concrete measures in the plan, I mention, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t The institutions are required to develop action plans for disabled students during 1999. The institutions are required to develop information and consultation services and to point out a contact person for disabled students. NTNU applied for funding in 1998 for a one-year project called the ‘National Competence and Welfare Centre — associated with NTNU’. The project was presented to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and to the Ministry of Education, Education and Research in meetings and letters. Following further dialogue with NTNU, the Ministry of Church Affairs, Education and Research, in a letter dated 23 February 1999, promised to support the project with DKK 750 000. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health added NOK 250000. In addition, the university uses its own resources for the project. In the letter to NTNU, the Ministry has clarified some of the terms of reference for the grant and is still in dialogue with the project management. The project shall contribute to the knowledge of the organisation of the study situation at universities and higher education institutions and through the support of the development of local action plans within the sector. Cataracts shall be collected from other universities and higher education institutions in the field, both nationally and internationally. The project shall systematise the information and outline possible solutions to problems encountered by disabled students at different stages of the study, such as: in the case of searching, admission, study and examination. This will help to develop the advisory services of the universities. I have seen the project request from NTNU as interesting and relevant in the light of the disability action plan. In order to achieve results with high transfer value to other universities and higher education institutions, and in order to gain skills and to exploit other learning outcomes, it is necessary to establish contact and cooperation with the rest of the sector. As I understand it, the project management plans to invite you to a contact and discussion seminar before the summer break. In reviewing the application from NTNU, the Ministry has assessed how the project plans can be adapted to the information, communication and knowledge available in the field today. I know you, too. that the University of Oslo has for more than 20 years had its own service for disabled students and through it has developed good competence in the field. We now need a very broad front to increase competence when it comes to planning and facilitating the study situation for disabled students at all higher institutions. If we're going to close it down, we need to take advantage of all the expertise available in the sector. The representative Anneliese Dørum asks whether I have assessed the need for a national centre of expertise in this area. The question shows that there are wrong associations when the project, which I have commented on above, is referred to as a national competence and welfare centre. The ministry should probably have seen this and taken it up with the seeker from the beginning. What we're talking about here is simply financial support for a time-limited development project for the university and higher education sector, anchored by NTNU. In addition to the premises underlying the grant, no concrete assessments have been made to provide the university with national competence centres on a permanent basis. Only when the project is completed will it take a closer look at how the results and the lessons will be used and passed on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1120	I understand that the pre-requisite is well intended by the department, but I believe that the project is very little assessed and reviewed. I can tell the Council of State that the organisations of disabled students are strongly opposed to this project. They believe that the project outline is messy and not informative, and as they read the project, it looks as if a separate care gtto is planned for students with disabilities, for example. arranged furniture to be assembled into owner-occupied parts of dwellings with their own common areas, etc. They indicate that the project outline provides a keyword for tasks which do not fall under the responsibility of such a centre of expertise, if any. Why has the Council of State agreed to add such a research project to NTNU, with as little experience as they have in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1127	First, a comment to the first. It's true that some organizations in retrospect have expressed themselves skeptically, but it's very, very clear. There are many different assessments here, and only when the project is completed will you be able to get an assessment of its content, and if there has been something interesting to go on or not. That's why I think we should look at it nuancedly. When this is true of NTNU, the answer is simple: we want to do more in this sector. We discussed this all the time, and agreed that we should be open to experimental and development work in the individual institutions. When one is about to start a trial and development work, one cannot have total listening rounds on it in all other institutions at the same time. But the day it's going to be established something national, one of course has to have it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1134	After all, we are in the process of building up the national centres of excellence, so that building a new one would actually be contrary to the policy we otherwise pursue. We know that the apprenticeships are not working properly for these students today, but this is not due to a lack of competence in terms of the organisation needs. On the contrary, the lack of organisation is due to the fact that the identified needs are closely met by state grants and by the framework that is currently in place. These include: lack of study literature on sound, interpreting access for deaf people, physical accessibility for people with reduced mobility, facilitated reading places, etc. You don't need any research to define the needs, you need funds.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1141	It is certainly right that the representative, Mr Dørum, says that one needs more resources. That one needs a review of how to avoid creating ghettos, but get a good fit at all institutions, find out the methodology and system for it, I think it's absolutely necessary. Therefore, it can't be that every single research project of this dimension is going through a national hearing to get a say there before we can try it out. But the day we're going to establish not a national competence centre, but a national network, we need such hearings. When it comes to degradation, it's a little bit on the way right the representative Dørum says, but we keep a lot of competence functions and network functions. It's kind of the old school business being built up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1151	I have a question for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘A sample proposes a total conversion of technical vocational schools in the Nordic countries. Instead of teaching in classrooms, the sample proposes a combination of distance learning, community collections and guidance. Among other things, skipper training at the Nordland Fishing School is affected by this conversion. The hearing period is set at one week, and the Maritime Directorate, which issues certificates to skippers, is not a hearing body. Does the Council of State consider that this conversion would provide sound training for skippers in Northern Ireland?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1160	I do not know the details of the proposal that is currently being heard in the municipality of Nordland. This is a selection work the county itself has initiated and is responsible for. I can therefore not comment on this selection setting in particular, but I can make some general comments. The fact that the county is looking for untraditional solutions to the organisation of education is in line with what I want to do when it comes to rethinking the organisation of training. In my view, the fact that a county council lists selections or committees to figure out how training can be organised and organised in order to obtain the best possible learning outcomes is positive. Use of, inter alia: distance learning and ICT enable us to reach elephants in many ways without having to travel to centralised learning places. Training must, of course, be organised in such a way as to ensure that the organisation and teaching are in accordance with the requirements laid down in curricula, legislation and regulations, international conventions and others as a liability for education. When it comes to the hearing period, it seemed a little short, and it could be natural to let the Maritime Directorate speak. In addition, I take it of course that the municipality of Nordland will ensure that both national and international requirements are met by any reorganisation of the technical spheres of the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1169	I thank you for your answer. I understand that the Minister is in favour of new methods and to what is going on in terms of development. The Norwegian coast is a difficult and demanding coast, with narrow waters, where both swiftness and seafaring is required. Governments are defending the curriculum. In accordance with the curriculum of the fishing vocational school referred to above, inter alia: much of the time helped to learn how to declare poetry. Does the Council of State consider that dictatorship is an appropriate instrument in a crisis situation on the Norwegian coast?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1176	No, in a crisis situation, I would say that I see measures that would be better suited than reading poems. I think one of these situations uses the word in a way, maybe inside and into a higher power. But the only thing is not enough. One of them, of course, must have competence. And as I said in my answer, I of course suggested that one take seriously that one should also learn the practical. This shall be done at collections. But I think the best way within all educational pathways is to get people from the local community to take education. It's decentralised education. That one therefore has a decentralised approach with new methods where one has ICT and collections, I believe District Norway and Coast Norway are going to suffer in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1181	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer and note that he agrees with me that there are other instruments that need to be used than poetry when it is in crowded waters. Yes, there are some who call not only on the higher powers, but also on underground powers – if we are to mention it. But it is alarming what is happening to the curricula that have been presented, which are changed once and for all without evaluation. It shall be experimented, and one shall reinvent the wheel, in a technical way. Will the Council of State take an initiative with the industry to evaluate the shipper training system at the fishing vocational schools in order to obtain the best possible training for fishing skippers, because that is what is important for the fishing fleet at least?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1190	When a case is being heard, those who get the case to be heard have the right to speak and make wise observations, where one takes care of the professional things that the representative Bastisen no points out, which are obviously important to take care of, so that education is as possible. Changing very often doesn't have to be the wisest thing to do. But at the same time, I believe that the representative Bastesen and I agree that as technology progresses, it also applies to what a coastal candidate has to learn. It is not useful to use methods from 10-20-30 years back alone. When it comes to taking an initiative, of course, I'm willing to meet with the industry if the industry thinks there's a big problem here. I'm willing to meet with every industry that thinks there's important things on the competence page they want to talk about. So that's what I'm open to, if there's an initiative from the industry on things that have to be done. Otherwise, I hope, as a conclusion when it comes to poetry, that the representative Bastesen and I have agreed that not in crisis situations, but otherwise dictated an important part of life.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1205	This question, from the representative of Morten Olsen to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be raised by the representative of Ane Sofie Tömrås.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1208	I would like to ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘A survey of teachers and trust leaders in Eastfold shows that 64 pst. has not been in a post-secondary course of Christian knowledge with religious and life views at all, and a total of 76 pst. [[CRL subject]] believes that they have not been re-trained and are competent to teach in the new Christian subject according to the plans and objectives set out in L97. What will the Council of State do to improve continuing training?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1217	Teachers have a type of work that is constantly updated, both professionally and educationally, natural and necessary. Knowledge of Christianity with religious and life-oriented orientation is a new subject in the basic sphere, and there is a great need for the development of skills for teachers who teach in the field. This presents us with new challenges in terms of quality, structure and forms of work in continuing training. The municipality is primarily responsible for the training of staff in the primary school. It is the responsibility of the State to make clear to the municipalities the importance of continuing training in terms of national education objectives. It is also the responsibility of the state to evaluate the extent to which the municipalities carry out the tasks. In the case of major national education policy reforms, where local authorities cannot be expected to meet the full need for continuing training, the State participates in the funding during the reform period. In that plan, when it comes to the development of competences linked to the introduction of the ten-year syllabus in the period 1996-2000, Christianism with religious and life views is one of the five disciplines that are prioritised throughout the period. In accordance with the decision-making decisions on state budgets, municipalities have received ear-marked resources each year for the development of their competences. The allocation is intended to partially cover the expenditure incurred by individual municipalities for the development of competence, in accordance with a municipal plan approved by the National Educational Office. It's developed a guide to the curriculum of the subject, which is distributed to all the schools. The guide shall support and reinforce the use and implementation of curricula by pointing to possible approaches and providing ideas and examples. She will help to provide teachers and schoolteachers with a good basis for the work of Christian knowledge in religious and life-oriented orientation. The Ministry has developed plans for continuing training for priority areas and for subjects. The plan for continuing training in Christian science with religious and life views was sent to universities, colleges, state educational offices and municipalities at the turn of the year 1996-97. In order to contribute to the quality of provision of continuing education and training and to be relevant to the municipalities, the Ministry of Housing took the initiative in 1997 to establish networks of universities and higher education institutions for continuing training in priority subjects. The State Education Office reports the work of municipalities in this area, in the annual state reports, and the development of competences related to the implementation of curricula is one of the themes of the research-based evaluation of Reform 97. The State Educational Office in Eastfold has reported that in 1996 four of the municipalities in the county provided assistance from universities or colleges, while five municipalities provided services without such assistance. In 1997, 16 municipalities provided assistance from universities or colleges and a municipality without, and in 1998 11 municipalities provided assistance, a municipality without. It has thus given us a minimum of 38 courses in 18 municipalities. This means that everyone has offered in Christian knowledge with religious and life-oriented orientation, many of the two and a few three or more times during the three years of activity. The ministry does not know the investigation representative Morten Olsen refers to, but I want to show that not all teachers in the basic school teach Christian knowledge with religious and life-oriented orientation. The period of competence development linked to the introduction of curricula expires in June 2000, and not all teachers will have been on refresher courses in all the subjects they teach at the time of the study. The first introduction of the new curricula is in the final phase, and it is important to further develop more user-adapted and flexible provision of refresher training and guidance in the primary school. Information and communication technologies and cooperation on experimental and development work will be a key instrument. Professional updates focusing on the organisation of content, working methods and evaluation will be a priority area for continuing training in the primary school in 2000, and the Ministry aims to maintain the networks for continuing training.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1250	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that he so strongly stresses the responsibility of the state and thus his own responsibility for having competent teachers. "The guide" he so strongly referred to, I can't see enough in any way. The ministry itself has recommended modular plans of 21 hours, and what this study showed is that to date it is less than 10 pst. who have received such continuing training, and also that the coming year is a fading small percentage who expect them to participate in such continuing training. This study was conducted by the Teachers' Association in Eastfold and among the teachers who actually teach in the new Christian subject with life-viewing, so these are people who teach daily in this subject. The fact that there are now offers in all the Eastfold municipalities is good, but I would like to know how to ensure that the teachers use the offer, so that we get them competent. [[The President clubs.]] I am sure that the Council of State and I can agree that much of the dissatisfaction about this subject is due to the fact that the teachers are not competent enough.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1257	The President is also sure that one should stay within the speaking time – and it is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1260	The last thing is of course quite right, that the representative is empty and I am completely agreed that competence is important here. There is a particularly challenging situation for teachers in this subject. It is also quite certain that some of the problems we have had have to do with the short time to update ourselves competently. The investigation has now been carried out at a time of approx. Half of the program was completed, and one had half again. What the state is responsible for in national reforms is transferring funds and making plans. It's done. Then we have a supervisory responsibility in retrospect, to make sure that it is followed up, and what I can promise the representative, Mr. Timberås, is that we should take that supervisory responsibility – in a very defensive way – in the areas that have our priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1268	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for the Church, Education and Research: ‘I refer to the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research to Section 1-1 of the Training Act that is out of touch. It says: ‘The percentage of time spent on thematically organised training and project work applies to the individual key steps of collecting sets.’ Does this reduce project work and thematically organised training?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1277	The answer to the question is no. The proposal for a regulation of the Training Act on this issue is followed up by the Storting's Act on the binding of subject matter, working methods and professional and hourly distribution at the main stage rather than at the year-end. All in all, this will not be a small part of the project and thematically organised training, but the municipalities, schools and individual teachers will have greater freedom to organise the training and to choose working methods within each main step. In this sense, this would be a good follow-up to what we agreed on in the debate yesterday, that it was necessary to find flexible arrangements to implement the objectives of the curriculum.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1286	I thank the Council of State for your answer. The basic school curriculum, Reform 97, states that it is within the small school stage, i.e. 1st@item: inlistbox – 4th class, at least 60 pst. of the total time being thematically organised training or projects, with particular emphasis in the first two years. In the case of intermediate steps, at least 30 pst. the time spent on this every year, and in the case of the youth, at least 20 pst. The curriculum is compulsory and, in my view, binding. Then comes the regulation of the Training Act, which stipulates that the curriculum's requirements for project work are to be suspended. So what the state council says is that the percentage isn't going to apply every year but collect for the step. In my opinion, that would mean a reduction. Is it the case that the Council of State, with its regulations, is now going to abolish what is set out in the curriculum?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1293	I do not agree with the representative Upbeøen Hansen that this is a reduction. There is a freedom to take more project work/theme work one year and a little less next year, but in some cases it should be the same. So this is very consistent with what I think was a great deal about, that one should have confidence that the individual teacher was actually able to achieve these measurements. When it comes to the curriculum and the regulations, as the previous government decided, there were a lot of teachers who felt it was difficult. There is a lot to go through, and then you can't follow it up with the theme and project work. What I have said is that I want a process with teachers' organisations, parents and elephants, to resolve this as a binding rule, if necessary. I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1300	Now it is true that in the evening post a few days ago it was a problem that there is too little project work in the school, especially at the youth stage. I have registered that the Council of State has agreed. Now, when the Council of State says that the teachers perceive what was the intention of the basic school curriculum, Reform 97, which is difficult, I believe it creates confusion. I stick to the agreed syllabus for the ten-year base ball, and it's also in the Ministry's draft regulation that they stick to that curriculum. Then I thought what's now in the draft, broken with the intention that's drawn up in the curriculum. I want to ask the Council of State if he wants to go back on this, so that thematic organisation and project work are in line with the basic school curriculum, which is attached by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1309	This regulation is a follow-up to the relaxation made by Stortinget in connection with the treatment of the training law. One should be able to look at the other side of the year, so look at this gathering over a few years. That's what we're doing here, and of course I won't go back on that. When this is the case with the lack of project and thematic education, we agree on it. But in almost all communication with Skule-Noreg about why it is, one of the essential answers is that the amount of material in the curriculum, which is at the same time a rule, is so large that one does not go through everything. Then I think there is reason to go in and see if that's what's done that we haven't been able to follow up the reform 97 content reform to an adequate degree – especially on the youth school stage. That's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1319	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘According to a study by SINTEF, there are very many car accidents in which passenger cars have come into the opposite lane, where the car is led by drivers trying to take their own lives. These are accidents that affect innocent people and, as a rule, truck drivers. How does the Council of State view this, and does he see possible measures that can reduce the number of such accidents?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1328	All accidents with serious injury or death are a tragedy for those who are affected, whether they are the victims or their closest ones. In order to improve the knowledge base that enables us to design effective road safety measures, a number of road safety studies are carried out by the State Road Administration and the Ministry of Transport. The study by SINTEF, to which the representative of Bredvold refers – the depth analysis of roadside accidents on the right routes in 80 and 90 zones with death or serious injury – has been achieved through cooperation between the Directorate of Roads, a number of local road offices and the Norway’s Lastebileier-Verbund. The course of events for the type of accident analysed in the study is often very unclear. The in-depth study is based on a small number of accidents that are studied very thoroughly, through interviews with drivers or other relevant and police documents. The study has revealed a number of factors that will be considered by the State Road Administration in cooperation with other road safety actors. The State Road Service will now convene the implica­tioned road offices and the Norwegian Freight Car Association to a meeting to discuss measures to reduce such serious accidents. At this meeting, the health authorities, which are central to suicide as a cause of accident, will also be invited to participate. Therefore, I do not wish to point out the specific measures involved in this, but I share the concern of the representative, Mr Bredvold, for this type of accident and will ensure that the report is followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1341	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was really not an answer to my question. At the same time, I thank the Council of State for ensuring that the report is followed up. The theme that the question raises is and has been a major problem for many years for those in the transport industry, by causing damage that they are not responsible for. This also has a psychological effect that can be a major problem and that it causes the industry a reputation that it does not deserve. Therefore, the undersigned is pleased that the SINTEF study confirms something many have thought but have not been able to prove. This is something the Council of State should and must take seriously. Attempts must be made to take measures to reduce the number of accidents. It is therefore important that action is taken as soon as possible. Will the Council confirm that this will be a high priority, or will there be only one case among many others?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1350	State councils could, of course, have examined the details of the report. He could have listed a number of measures that might be relevant, but there would be a wrong time to do so, since there will be a meeting with health authorities and interested parties, as referred to earlier. As a result of that meeting, it's natural to go on. The Council of State can confirm that he takes this very seriously, and that it is highly prioritised as well in the State Road Service as in the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1357	In his first answer, the Minister of Transport said that there were a small number of accidents. The report mentions 26 accidents, and in 11 it is proven that they were suicide candidates, i.e. almost 50 pst. This is probably when the number is relatively large, when one at the same time knows that the report covers only seven road offices.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1362	The concept of small is relative. What was important for me to stress was that there are a limited number of accidents that have been dealt with as closely as the report has mentioned, and we therefore need to see this in a broader and wider context. I am not trying in any way to explain or minimize the seriousness of the report.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1370	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Transport: ‘In reply to written question No. 265 said the Minister for Transport: ‘The Eiksund link for Stortinget will not be proposed until the outcome of the county’s priorities has been clarified. [[1998-99]] What kind of new priorities does the Council of State expect?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1379	As pointed out in the written reply of 5 May 1999 to the representative Petter Løvik, no extension of the Eiksund link for Stortinget will be proposed until the county council has taken a final decision on the projects to be prioritised in the transport plan for 2002-2011. The Eiksund link is estimated at 730 million. SEK, of which 600 million. kr shall be financed by State resources. The development of the link during the next planning period will take a large part of the national measures in the county and thus require the postponement of other national road projects which are also the priority of the county. In its examination of the National Transport Plan Challenge Document on 1 March of this year, the County Committee underlined the need for the earliest possible start of the Eiksund link after 2000. At the same time, the County Committee stressed that the planning framework for national road investments is too low and called for a significant increase in the framework. The Ministry will address the necessary clarifications on county priorities and the assessment of the decisions taken in an appropriate manner with Mr Møre and Mr Romsdal County Municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1390	I thank you for your answer. The Eiksund link is a very important issue for creating a versatile labour market in Southern Sunnmøre. The answer I got to written questions last week, that the Council of State was waiting for its priorities, has, as one might expect, created very great amazement in More and Romesdal, to say it mildly. The Storting has approved toll collection for this project, and the project is prioritised at the top of new projects in More and Romesdal once in a while. Then there is reason to ask the Council of State: does not have the Council of State per. today enough grounds to give a advice, yes or no, to this project, so that one knows what one has to stick to? Then one can get this into as we might get larger frames in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1397	After twelve years in the Storting and four years in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee at Stortinget, I am concerned that the figures presented to this assembly are both credible, correct and follow-upable. It will also be my line of work in the future with the National Transport Plan. I fully agree with the importance of the Eiksund connection. The case of the Eiksund Association is today in the Directorate of Roads and will, of course, also come to the Department over time. This, which I have now explained, both in written reply and in oral reply today, is nothing special or peculiar to Mr. More and Mr. Romsdal and Mr. Eiksund, but will concern several states and uncertainties regarding the priorities of individual areas within the planning framework. The Ministry and I have an understanding of the difficult priorities that the county community must pursue. Centrally, we're facing big problems and tight frames. That's why we need to have priority at all levels.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1404	There's a master plan. There are regulatory plans. Priorities are ahead, locally and regionally. Does the Council of State not believe that the citizens, businesses and political powers of More and Romesdal are serious about these priorities? Is it true, as the Council of State says, that the numbers presented to the Eiksund Association are not credible? Should this important project, yes or no, be postponed for another year, or is it such that the Council of State does not really want this connection to be realised?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1409	The Council of State wants the link to be realised. Governments believe that More and Romesdal are serious. More and Romesdal County are credible. But all things have a certain run they're going through, and I tried all night last night to explain to those who were present and followed the debate, that now I'm packing up several of these packages that are en route to the department, to see what bonds they contain. When the Eiksund Association comes naturally from the Directorate of Road to the Department, it will be subject to regular treatment. Nothing will be delayed, but I want the numbers I present to the Storting, and the presentations we make of projects in the future, to have great credibility. That's my starting point, and it makes me need to go in and take a concrete look at the contents of some projects. But again, I'm positive with the Eiksund connection.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1417	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: ‘The mobile telephone operators sell mobile phones with so-called cash cards. One of the companies sells telephones without being registered to any legal person. The telephones are sold to ‘anyone’. Is this reassuring in terms of privacy and social interests?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1426	The sale of cash cards without registration raises a number of issues in relation to privacy and other social interests. The current nature of such sales in relation to the existing telecommunications legislation is currently subject to assessment by the Postal and Telecommunications Authority. The supervisory opinion is expected to be transmitted to the Ministry of Transport in a short time. The Ministry of Transport will assess the matter on this basis. The importance of privacy and other societal interests in the sale of cash cards will then be carefully assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1433	I thank you for your answer. I think you can first establish that a cash card is basically a good arrangement, because you get, like, control of the economy, you know how much money you have on the card. So that's not the system I want to live, but this is that you can soon go into any store and buy a phone without having to register as a legal person. In fact, this phone is used to terrorize individuals. You can track down who called, you can get the number, you can get a number point or whatever you want on the phone, but you can't get who's behind those actions, and the police lose a lot of the electronic tracks that have become important to the police today to track down the heavy criminals. This cannot be a proper development. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Transport whether he agrees that we need to have a careful review of this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1440	The points currently under consideration by the representative, Mr Halvorsen, are the important and essential points of the assessment that is now being carried out. The task of postal and telecommunications supervision is to review the legislation and to recommend it to the Ministry of Transport for the next time. I will follow this up, as I said in my first answer, and the matter will be carefully assessed when the recording from the Post and Telecommunications Authority has arrived in the department. And let me add at my own expense: I clearly see the issues that Halfvorsen has raised, and I'm concerned that we can find a solution that serves society and that serves individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1450	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «In one year's time, the Storting shall adopt the national transport plan and submit the transport frameworks for 12 years in time. Official Journal of the European Communities No. 3 1999 has an article describing a railway project that will provide travel time between the East and the West which is shorter than by air from the city centre to the city centre. Will the Council of State take the initiative to review the data for the high-speed train project over Haukeli, so that the Storting can see whether this can be the case?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1459	I should like to begin by referring to Mr Dørum's written reply of 16 February 1998 to question No. 74/1998 by Mr Hallgeir H. Langeland. This response shows that the project Haukelidbanen is neither prioritised in Norwegian Railway Plan 1998-2007 nor adapted to the criteria on which the railway plan is based, in particular, in the years ahead. The overall strategy put forward for the further development of rail in Norway through the Norwegian Railway Plan 1998-2007 will require significant government appropriations beyond the 10-year period covered by the current plan. As the former Ministers for Transport, Opseth and Dørum, have also stated, it is therefore up-to-date for the state to engage in extensive investigation and planning of completely new sections of the road. For example, the Haukelidbanen project would be a significantly greater economic uplift than the new main airport on the Gardermoen, including the Gardermoban, or about five times the planned new dual-track Skøen-Asker, and would, if it were to be financed from the State budget, commit all funds to railway investment over a 20-25-year period if one based on the current state investment framework. However, if there were to be significant new elements in this case in addition to what was previously received in the department, I would not object to the further consideration of the question of examining the Haukelid track. However, I am not aware that such new information is now available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1475	I thank the Council of State for the answer. However, the Council of State refers to existing policies – the Norwegian railway plan, adopted in June 1997, and must remain in policy until 2007. The national transport plan looks further ahead, until 2012. The NSB says that trains should be best at intermediate distances, Oslo-Voss, Oslo-Dombås, Oslo-Sira. The Haukelidbanen will be best between the cities of Bergen-Oslo and Haugesund-Oslo. Between the three major western villages and the capital, last year 2,6 million air passengers traveled; the trains carried only one-twenty. The Haukeli high-speed rail will provide future-oriented, environmentally friendly transport, which can also benefit from regional policy. The journey time Odda-Bergen will e.g. Just be half an hour. Today this journey takes over three hours. People living in the one-sided industrial community Odda will be able to commute to work in Bergen by high-speed trains. The route from Kongsberg to Flesland will be faster than Kongsberg-Gardermoen today. In view of this, there must be reason to have the data material analysed well enough. Shouldn't Norwegian transport make progress?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1490	Yes, to the greatest extent Norwegian transport is to make progress. And let me, not to be misunderstood, say about the entry that went into yesterday's day's revision – which I wasn't seen because I was here in Stortinget, and which is probably a edited clip from a larger interview that was given to the Focal Point editorial about Easter times on rail transport in the Nordic and Europe – that in this there is a broad approach to a number of fields affected by railway policy in Norway. This Council of States feels that it is positive that some people find out that private planning is to be done. Private planning is not prohibited in this country. Perhaps I can also allow myself to ask: this project – perhaps it could be the first privately funded and commercial railway project in Norway? In other words, it is not that everything that is going to happen in transport in the future needs to go over public budgets. That's thinking new. I will sign this matter out in the National Transport Plan next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1499	I thank the Council of State for this answer as well. It was nice tones that you can imagine a private financing, because I actually think the investors are in line on the continent. Both German and French interests must be in sight – if they are allowed. I allow myself to be a little rude and say that the Norwegian railway administration has not seen the progress being made. If Stortinget had followed the railway professional position in the last hundred years, Bergensbanen would not be a reality. And when forward-looking mountainers wanted to turn into electric power, the NSB management went against such “airlocks”, as they called it. The NSB said it was coal and oil that had the future ahead. It's the Storting that's going to preface the transport of the future. I am sure that the Council of State believes that we should not be the sandscrapers of the bureaucratic ideas of the nations about what is forward-looking policy. And then we hope that it's possible to get to private in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1508	The Council of State and the Government are concerned to see Norwegian transport policy as a whole. That's what the Storting asked us to do, and that's what the Storting has done in the past. We will present an overall plan at the beginning of 2000, the National Transport Plan, where several of the projects we were involved in, both yesterday and today, will be mentioned. This Council of State has no difficulty in seeing that in some areas private planning and private implementation may be needed. However, this should also be part of a comprehensive approach to planning transport services in Norway, so I assume that there is a need and use for both private activity, private initiative and public initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1518	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «The road system of the Member States shall rationalise. Production sites in the districts are proposed for closure and urban sites are strengthened. Important service functions such as car supervision/traffic department, with the issue of driving licences, registration of cars and motorcycles, disappear. This will cause clear disadvantages to car and motorcycle dealers in the districts, which in turn have a negative impact on smaller communities. What can the Council of State do to ensure that such functions can become in, for example, the Lwagal region, where the automotive/motorcycling industry is very important?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1527	The road system was reorganised in 1995 on the basis of Stortingen’s treatment of St.meld No. 41 for 1993-94, New overall management system for the State Road Administration. The car inspection stations were then converted to traffic stations, which also added the operation and maintenance of the roads to these stations. There are today about 100 traffic stations and dispatch points. The State Road Service is committed at all times to performing its services in the most cost-effective manner possible, while at the same time focusing on good service and availability for customers. The efficiencies of the establishment shall be continuous and the reorganisation shall continue in particular in the production activity. The State Road Service is currently investigating how the public services in the road and vehicle sectors can best be provided in the future. As part of efforts to improve the efficiency of the establishment, standard requirements for the use of traffic station buildings and minimum requirements for the availability of services by the public at the traffic stations will be developed. It will be assessed whether several services can be provided by telephone or computer networks, so that the public will need to meet less in traffic stations in order to perform its services. In this way, the availability of services will be improved in relation to the current situation. For services such as: driving tests and vehicle checks, which require attendance, will focus on the proximity of customers. The future assessment of the location of traffic stations will also focus on the good use of the premises, equipment and crew of traffic stations. The investigation will be carried out during the autumn. It is planned to draw up the policy for further improving the efficiency of the state road system in the national transport plan, which is presented in the spring of 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1540	I thank you for your answer. Yeah, here it's going to be about cuts to save in. This is not just about the loss of an office and a function. It's the same amount of the ringing effects that it has for other industries. This is how small municipalities are much more vulnerable than larger places. Can the Council of State give stronger leadership to the State Road Administration in a state that saving and closure of production sites is not the same as decommissioning in districts and strengthening urban installations, but that there may be reverse thinking?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1549	The size of the population can be stronger, both through the budgetary frameworks adopted and the priorities taken. There is no concealment that, with the tightening up of recent years and with the reduced available frameworks, the need for efficiency has increased sharply. Then, when implemented, we cannot blame the parts that are required to achieve efficiency. On the other hand, both from this room and from the department, we can make some headway in strengthening districts versus cities. Not all solutions are available in cities and no solutions are available in districts. This would be natural for the Storting to discuss in the context of the National Transport Plan, where policy will be drawn up when it is presented in spring 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1563	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: «In the premises of Løiten Brenderi, a company with 25 workplaces producing hand-held lights in a fantastic variety of shapes and colours is set up, with the help of a sense of work, creativity and form. Production and sales, based on thousands of visitors from abroad, remain in traditional premises. A special-packed original Løiten aquavit would fit as a hand in gloves in an extended range. Can the Council of States picture an ‘Aquavit-shop’ in this environment?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1572	The answer is yes. With the representative, Bjørn Hernæs, I see a «Aquavit-shop» in such environments quite clearly for my inner eye. But let me add: The proposal from the representative Hernæs to allow an ‘Aquavit-shop’ in local to Løiten Brenderi would require an amendment to the statutes of the alcohol law that the Vinmonopole A/S has a single right to a retail hall of starch, wine and spirits. A change at this point will, in my opinion, undermine the important feature of the detailed monopoly in Norwegian alcohol policy. Such a change could also discriminate against imported products, thereby undermining the rights conferred by the monopoly of wine in relation to the EEA Agreement. There is reason to point out that the Storting has dealt with several issues about the Vinmonopole A/S's one-off rights in the last few years. In these cases, the special feature of the Wine Monopoly has been underlined, and it has joined the majority in Stortinget. When the division of the Vinmonopolet was dealt with in 1995, and the changes in the alcohol laws in 1997, it was emphasised, as an advocacy from the Stortinget's side, that the Government should work actively and targeted to keep the monopoly up. As late as 2 April 1998, at Document No. 8:55 for 1997-98, and when there was a proposal to amend the alcohol laws in order to allow the retail of wine to be granted to Bio Nordkapp, the Stortingen refused to change the alcohol laws by referring to the special role of the Vinmonopolet. For Bio Nordkap, the mentioned raison d'être may sell their own wine directly to consumers. I can see, to a lesser extent, that the alcohol laws would change so that it was opened for the hall of spirits along with hand-held lights. Otherwise, it is a pleasure to hear about an initiative that has given 25 jobs — and thousands of guests.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1589	This was an unusually uplifting answer. Of course, the introduction was better than the ending, but also there I find very good, because if I understand the Council of State correctly, it is the consideration of the detailed monopoly that makes her unable to follow her inner eye. We have thus opened up the excellent opportunity for the wine monopoly to open up a sale in the same premises. If that's not the case, at least we have to get a different reason for that, than the one given in the answer, and I assume we don't get that. I just want to show you a little bit of what we're talking about here. Here we have a small gift box with this excellent product, made together with a local craftsman who makes traditional tin drinking cups. [[the representative presented the gift package]] Other imaginable solutions are glass made of wood. A third variant is local glassworks, and glass blowers that can participate in the same process. This opens too many possibilities, and I am pleased to hear the Council of State's confirmatory reply that if the monopoly of wine takes care of the sale, this can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1596	The President appreciates creativity, but is there any doubt that advertising for a certain product is allowed from the Stockholm Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1599	I have answered the question that was asked. I would like to admit that there is a separation of creativity across the whole country that could lead to additional applications in relation to this issue that Bjørn Hernæs addresses. I believe there is reason to say that one exception to the State monopoly is all ESA would need in relation to the non-discrimination that is required. When it comes to the issue of turnover through the monopoly of wine, the monopoly of wine, which manages the tasks that the monopoly of wine should have within the limits of accumulation and government, has a plan for the coming years, to which they stick.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1606	This is just becoming more and more encouraging and uplifting. I believe now very strongly to hear the Council of State say that there are no objections on the part of the department if the board of directors of the Vinmonopolet finds that they want to use their rights and the opportunity to open an 'Aquavit-shop' in the Loeit Brenderi's premises on the Loeten. I feel reasonably convinced that the owners will very strongly consider sending such an application. For the sake of order, I would just like to be confirmed once again by the Council of State that the Ministry will have no objection to the administration of the Vinmonopolet dealing with this matter without any interference or influence on the part of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1611	The monopoly of wine, as I said in my previous answer, has the framework for its activity drawn from collapse and government. That means that for the five-year period in which one is now in, there is a possibility of opening up up up to 50 new wine monopolies; it's about an average of 10 per cent. years. If they have so far dealt with applications like this, I do not know. It goes without saying that there is a question that has been dealt with so far by the department, even when the proposal has come from Stortinget. This means that if such an application were to be made, the ministry would give its answer then, and not now. And I stick to the arrangements that are today, in terms of the wine monopoly and sales.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1619	I have the following questions to the Council of State Høybråten: ‘In the ordinary Questionnaire on 5 May 1999, a question had been signed by the Minister of Health about the hospital situation in six states. The next day, you could read in Sarpsborg Arbeiderblad, Moss Dagblad and Demokratie: ‘The council of states was ready, but Stang did not appear.’ Furthermore, you can read that the information was given by a councillor who claimed that the undersigned was gone and the question was put to the public. Can the Council of State explain how such misstatements can be made by an adviser in the conduct of the Council of State?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1628	Let me first make it clear that the statement quoted by the representative Stang on his question does not come from the department. This heading must be at the expense of the newspaper itself. What was said when the journalist addressed the department in advance of the last Question Time was that the question was put to him because the representative had gone away. This turned out to be wrong afterwards, and the question was answered in an ordinary way. As it will be known, questions in the Question Time are being put at risk, either because the Council of State has to be absent or, sometimes, because the representative is. When, in the present case, incorrect information was given that the question had been raised, it was due to the fact that the representative Mr Stang’s question was confused with another one. It was a lapsus from the department that I'm sorry for. I have therefore sent a correction to the current newspapers stating that the error is the department's and must not be charged to the representative Stang.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1635	I have to say right away that I was not very eager to air this matter in Stortinget. I had never thought that I had to raise such a question in the main hall, a question that actually depends on misunderstandings and lack of routines. I had believed that the Council of State and the undersigned had completed the claims that the undersigned had left the previous Question Time, and that this was clarified last week between us. Obviously, it wasn't that simple. As is known, one spring becomes fast to five chickens, and one of the newspapers in the workers’ press in Eastfold, Sarpsborg Arbeiderblad, brought the claim to its readers that the undersigned ‘did not meet until the hour’. It said to read on the first page of the paper Thursday last week. The article, or to say the sensational novelty, had its origins in an employee's statement of the Council of State. It is hoped that the Office of the Council of State will inform the media or others that such questions belong to the Administration of the Storting or the groupings of parties, which should have an overview of the location of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1644	I can assure the representative Stang that the error that was made here, which is entirely the department's fault, has led to a review of the procedures, so that this should not repeat itself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1649	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I would also like to thank the Council of State for taking the initiative to rectify the situation. The same applies to the letter sent to Sarpsborg Arbeiderblad, Demokratiken and Moss Dagblad, where the Council of State regrets the misunderstanding and says that it is due to a regrettable confusion from the Council of State office, and that the representative Stang should not be charged. But Sarpsborg Arbeiderblad's journalist, who is the main architect of the entire essay, has not checked the actual facts, whether the undersigned was present or not, but only based on information from the Council of State. It was not checked, either with the Storting or the undersigned – which the lying article is about – and it must be said that there is a breach of ethical guidelines that apply to the press. My main message is that there should be some legal certainty also for bigots representatives in getting such a negative stamp – which has its origins in falsehoods.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1661	In the event of an incursion, a minor error has occurred in my question. The ministry has made it clear via Stortinget's office, and I therefore read the question as it should be: ‘On 9 July 1998, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health gave a recommendation to, inter alia, the County of Vestfold on the method of calculation in relation to the ISF. The Vestfold County Municipality has followed the recommendations that have come from the department. The County Council has not made any calculation errors in relation to the recommendations, nor has it been notified by the Ministry of impending changes to the calculation basis. What basis does the Ministry have for the new practice of drawing daily stays out of the 1998 DRG index calculation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1670	The main objective of input-driven funding — ISF — is to increase hospital activity, thereby reducing the waiting time for treatment. In 1998, the aim was to increase activity by 6.5 pst. from 1995 to 1998. Plans from the county municipalities showed a total planned growth in this period of 5.2 pst. The activity in hospitals now shows a growth of 8.3 pst. in 1998, compared with 1995. This is an intentional growth, and it appears that the new funding mechanism has worked according to the intentions. The counties are paid after payment for more activity in 1998 in proportion to planned figures. Both before and after the deployment of the ISF, there is a strong emphasis on providing broad information on the current coding, reimbursement and conditions that could be addressed separately in the payment basis. The activity figures provided by hospitals are the basis for payment in the financial instrument. In reviewing the activity figures, it is stressed that payments should be made as accurately as possible in accordance with the applicable guidelines and with the intentions of the scheme. Following this review, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has found it necessary to reduce the reimbursement base for some municipalities. It is clarified that county councils are paid for all registered activities falling under the funding scheme, but not necessarily for changed registration practices. The ISF is partly financed by contributions from the framework grant to the counties. The basis for the move is based on registered activity in 1995. When ISF was introduced, there was a significant under-registration of what hospitals were actually doing with patient treatment. The under-registration implies a corresponding reduction in the framework grant granted by the counties. Following the introduction of the ISF, the quality of registration has improved and increased in line with the guidelines. In 1998, the reimbursement rate was 45 pst. of the average cost of treatment. A change in registration could have an impact on the basis of payments and could result in a financial settlement that is much higher than the actual costs of patient treatment. This applies in particular to the recording of day patients and observation spaces. The county councils are briefed in an information letter in January 1998 in the attached ‘Prisliste DRG 1998 with code guide’ to, inter alia, the recording of day-to-day patients could be managed separately in the calculation of the DRG index and thereby in determining the basis for payment. Furthermore, it is stated in its own letter in March 1998 that the ISF intention is to treat more patients, and payment is to be made for this. It shall not be paid out only for code changes. For some county municipalities, the afterpayment for 1998 has become less than they expected. The Ministry has a dialogue with the counties concerned on the implementation of the adjusted bill for 1998. A joint meeting was held with the municipalities concerned on 7 May. There will now be a review of the individual municipality, including the Vestfold county municipality, which has been agreed on 1 June.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1688	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As the Council of State is probably aware, this applies primarily to the Coastal Hospital in Westfold. And the hospital in question has had very close contact with the ministry throughout 1998 to have the right coding. A number of letters have been written, and there has been telephone contact between the hospital and the department. Is it reasonable, in the opinion of the Council of State, that hospitals which have followed up the guidelines, in addition to having had extensive contact with the Ministry and based the Ministry's own codification guidelines, are to be deprived of funds for which the Ministry has previously claimed that the hospital is entitled?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1697	All the time remaining is a dialogue between the department and the counties concerned, including: Vestfold County Municipality, I don't think that's right for me here and now to process this question related to a single hospital. What I want to say is that there is a dialogue, a discussion, between the county councils in general and the department on the issue that also concerns Vestfold and the Coast Hospital, the question of changes in registration practices in relation to real activity growth. What is the Ministry’s starting point is that real activity growth is to be rewarded through the ISF, but not necessarily a purely registration conversion. Then we'll have to take that discussion in turn with the county councils. And the county councils are given the opportunity to provide all the documentation they have so that something presented by the department might be wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1704	I thank the Council of State for a good answer. I interpret the council to the point that he now goes away from what he said in the previous Question Time that the main reason for the misunderstanding was that the county councils reported errors. I now perceive the Council of State that it is possible that the information provided by the Department itself is incorrect and that the dialogue may lead to the hospitals retaining all or part of these funds that the Department has so far wanted to take from them. I'm positive about that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1711	For the sake of order, let me make it clear that there is full agreement between what I said now, and what I said in the previous Question Time, namely that county councils are going to get a settlement for real activity growth, but not necessarily for changes and conversions in registration practices. They shall not receive settlements for activities that are not within the scope of input-driven financing, which have been included by some county councils. I'm not saying now that it's about Westfold, but it's about some other county municipalities. So when you have a dialogue and invite to put documentation on the table, that means you're going to take that documentation inwards, study it and find out if there's anything there that you didn't know before.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1728	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Questions 21 and 22 have been answered earlier. That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1744	In this article, I would like to briefly explain the proposed amendments to the Storting Rules of Procedure. The proposals for amendments have been for consultation within the groups and have been discussed in several meetings with the group leaders. The attitude of the Presidency is unanimous. During the session A, the division of labour between the committees, the Presidency proposes to formalise the consequences of a change in the distribution of cases between the departments. This is a follow-up to decisions taken by the Stortinget in the last few years in the context of the examination of the position of the Rules of Procedure Committee. Furthermore, in Section B, we clarify the provisions of Section 33 that deal with royal propositions and messages that are not finalised by the Stortinge during the parliamentary term in which they are put forward. The rules are proposed in such a way that legislative proposals which have not been finalised during the parliamentary term during which they were handed over to the public hearing are dropped. In the event that the government wishes to maintain such a bill, the government must redefine it in the new electoral period. papers which have not been completed by the Stortinge during the parliamentary term during which they were held in the Grand Meeting may be proposed for consideration by the Presidency during the new parliamentary term. Correspondingly, large-scale messages that have not been completed by the Stortinget during the parliamentary period during which they were referred to in the Grand Meeting apply. As a result, any propositions promoted by the Council of State, but not infringed by the Stortinget or Odelstinget during the same parliamentary term, may be transmitted during the next parliamentary term without limitation. Section C, the duty of professional secrecy of representatives: According to Section 60 of the Rules of Procedure, the EEAS is currently bound by the obligation of professional secrecy on matters relating to closed doors of the EEAS or its departments. Representatives are also bound by professional secrecy in relation to the secret negotiations of the extended Foreign Affairs Committee and the EEA Committee. Violation of professional secrecy can be punished under Section 121 of the Criminal Code and the Liability Act. Until 1977, § 121 of the Penal Code hit, among others. disclosure of information that was ‘trusted’ to him. It is close to assuming that large-scale representatives who were ‘trusted’ in the exercise of the grossing-up profession could also be affected by this provision. In 1977, however, § 121 was amended, and after the amendment to the law, the paragraph refers only to the obligation of professional secrecy imposed by law or instruction. The provisions of the Act on the Protection of Private Interests, which were simultaneously incorporated into the Act, do not apply to the Storting. Thus, a ‘hole’ was created in the rules, by the fact that there is no law or instruction, except for Section 60 of the Rules of Procedure, which imposes on representatives the obligation of professional secrecy in the interests of private interests. In the opinion of the Presidency, there is a need to establish, in written rules, that representatives are bound by professional secrecy also in the field of personal and business information similar to the rules of the Administrative Act. That is why we propose an addendum on this in Rule 60, second paragraph, No. 2 In the case of professional secrecy with a view to protecting public interests, the usual view has been that, when poaching representatives are given access to documents classified in accordance with the Safety Instructions or the Protection Instructions, they are, like others who, in the course of their work or in the service of the public, are given the obligation of professional secrecy regarding the content of the documents. The legal situation in this area will be different when the Law of 20 March 1998 on preventive safety services enters into force. This law, which does not apply to Stortinget, will replace the rules on security rating in part of the security instructions. Accordingly, in the view of the Presidency, it is necessary to establish in the Rules of Procedure that the representatives are bound by the obligation of professional secrecy also for security graded and classified information. Rules to this effect are proposed contained in Section 60, second paragraph, No. 1st@item: inlistbox The new rules on professional secrecy relate to information that is made known to representatives in the course of the deliberations and include both written and oral information. Today, Stortinget does not systematically monitor the government's follow-up to the decision on the size of the store, cf. Section D, with the exception of proposals submitted to the Government without any substantive and private proposals adopted by the Government for examination and opinion. The Presidency has found that more important than this is to control the government's follow-up to the decisions of reality made by the Storting. This applies in particular to decisions which contain a request to the Government, often expressed by the fact that ‘The Government is asked for, etc.’, because such decisions have almost never been initiated by the Government itself. In recent years, the Stortinge has adopted a large number of such requests. The Presidency proposes that a provision be included in the Rules of Procedure which requires the Government to promote once a year a major communication on the follow-up to such decisions and that the Control and Constitutional Committee address this communication. The provision of current § 12, paragraph 8(e), which deals with the government's letter to the Stortinget with opinions on proposals submitted without a substantive vote, is proposed. Instead, we propose that the individual representative of the grubbing-up should be able to obtain such opinions from the departments themselves. Furthermore, it is the Presidency's view that it should be considered at a later stage whether there is reason to maintain the system of transmission of proposals without a substantive vote. Under Section E, we propose a new provision in the Rules of Procedure that the Committees should first give their opinion on a part of a matter and then give their opinion on the rest of the matter. The conditions for such a breakdown are that special reasons warrant it, and that the Presidency agrees to it. As regards proposals made in the context of the examination of committee settings, see: Section F follows from Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure that proposals notified in advance at the latest by 5 p.m. 09.00 on the day on which the matter is to be dealt with in Stortinget or Odelstinget, shall be put to the vote at the meeting if the proposer so requires. In the case of proposals made in connection with other cases — such as interviews and presentations — the same provisions have been followed in practice, even if this is done on a somewhat uncertain formal basis. Not rarely has there been any dissatisfaction with the practice that has been followed. In particular, it has been claimed that parties other than the proposer’s do not have sufficient time to consider and examine the proposals. As a result, the Presidency proposes that there should be no longer any possibility of making proposals in relation to the treatment of interpellations. We point out that it is often difficult for representatives to decide on such proposals within the short time available – from the moment when the proposal is distributed and until voting takes place. The limited number of speakers who can take part in an inter-pelling debate and the short speaking time also makes it difficult to comment and elaborate on the proposals during the debate. As regards the presentation debates, which take place at a later date than the presentation, the Presidency considers that the right to make proposals should be maintained, but suggests that such proposals should be dealt with in the same way as ‘new cases’ under the third paragraph of Section 28 of the Rules of Procedure. This will include, inter alia: say that a proposal may not be put to the vote without delay if the President or at least one fifth of those present oppose it. The Presidency also proposes that it should continue to be such that no proposals can be made during a presentation debate held immediately after a presentation. This is included in Section 34(a). The same applies when Stortinget deals with a request submitted by Odelstinget. This provision is included in the third paragraph of Section 30. The agreed test procedure with open committee hearings, as set out in: Section G, expires on 30 September of this year. The Presidency proposes that the Rules of Procedure be extended until 30 September 2001. The scheme will be evaluated before the end of this parliamentary term. This was a brief review of the content of the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure. In addition, it is proposed to correct the wording of certain provisions. I don't think it's necessary to go into those proposals. The Presidency proposes that the amendments should enter into force on 1 October of this year, and there will be a reprint of the Rules of Procedure from that date. With this, I recommend the unanimous attitude of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1801	In the SV Group, there has been a debate and a little disagreement about the proposal that it should no longer be possible to make proposals in connection with inter-pelling debates. We see that it can be a problem when someone in the context of an interpellation debate can promote both 10 and 15 and maybe 20 proposals of a partly principleal nature, and no other clusters see what comes as a proposal in the hall, until after noon. 9:00 a.m. the same day. It means a completely different option than the reassuring treatment in the individual size groups, which we have mostly of all other cases. At the same time, I think it is a problem to limit the possibility of Stortinget to promote matters and proposals at short notice. We have worked on many crossroads in order for the Stortinget to be – what to say – more up-to-date, among other things. a spontaneous Question Time was introduced to draw the political issues in question more directly into the treatment of the Storting. We also believe that such a restriction in the treatment of interpellations may have the disadvantage that we, when we want to focus on a matter, have to put in private suggestions, so-called Document No. 8 proposals, and that it could lead to an inappropriate increase in that type of proposal. However, we are committed to supporting the unanimity of the Presidency, but note that the SV's pool considers this to be a probationary mechanism, and that we will follow up on what will happen with regard to the other ways in which proposals are being made. We reserve the right to come back with a possible proposal to amend Section 51 of the Rules of Procedure if this has the effect that the Stortinget is becoming more paralysed than being able to make concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1810	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1824	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3257]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1832	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1838	President, can I give you a brief explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1845	It can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e1848	I refer just to the post I made, where I expressed considerable scepticism to amend Section 50 of the Rules of Procedure, on suggestions in connection with interpellations. However, I recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote in favour of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, while at the same time notifying us that we consider it to be a probationary mechanism and do not exclude that we can come back with proposals to amend it. The Presidency had cancelled:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-12.ana.ud1820e2072	There is a record not distributed in the hall. The President would like to say the following: the Foreign Affairs Committee, in an address to the Presidency today, has requested that the Minister for Development and Human Rights' statement on development policy be submitted to the Foreign Affairs Committee at its meeting on 6 May, which was decided to be held at a later meeting, instead. The Presidency is set to respond to this request and the President will therefore, pursuant to point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 34a of the Rules of Procedure, propose the following:
