ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e26	First a response to the doubter Harald Hove, who apparently doubted most. But one thing he was absolutely sure of, and it was that the Workers' Party had not started any decoration of the legislation in terms of adoption, while we were in government. This is wrong! The Jagland government did that, and the purpose was to get to that Document No. The 8th proposal that we have to deal with today. I have to say there is something strange about this whole debate. Here we discuss who should adopt children, and then someone chooses to sit on his high moral horse and believes that one must be married in order to be considered adoptive parents, with a few exceptions. At the same time, we know that the world is full of children who need love and care. I was with others from the municipal committee a short time ago in Brazil and saw some of the many street children there who have no home other than the street, and who are not being treated well, to put it mildly. I might have thought of taking everyone back home with me to Norway, but of course it didn't work out. Then comes one back to the Norwegian reality and the Norwegian debate, where the majority in this room clearly believe that one is not worth enough to be considered an adoptive parent if one is a lonely or a cohabitant, instead of looking at what can be done to improve the situation of the children who have the bad. Because it must be a person’s fitness that is crucial to whether a person is able to adopt children, not a married person or one. The Christian People's Party has recently held a national meeting, and some of the main message that I understood came out of it was that the party should now become more modern. It's going to have a policy that's in line with the reality we're living in now. Then we get a case for treatment where it has the opportunity to show it, and the Christian People's Party is back to the old. I know many, both lonely and consensual, who are fully capable of adopting children, but who are not given the opportunity because they are not allowed to be judged as fit for it. I agree, of course, that one should be subject to strict control before one is approved as an adoptive parent, but it does not depend on one's civil status. Is it e.g. Anyone in this room who dares to say that all the children who grow up with either their mother or their father in Norway are worse off than other children? I also dare to say that those who escape through the loop and are accepted as adoptive parents in Norway today are good. And I also dare to make the claim that all parents in Norway who have children in the usual way have been checked as carefully, there were many who had not been allowed to give birth in Norway. I wish we had come further than that there are prejudices and myths that apply. I wish people were judged by what they can offer, and what they stand for and are, instead of old-fashioned attitudes toward who is suitable. That's not how many of these kids we're talking about here, that the choice is two parents. For many of the children we're talking about here, the choice is either no parent, or it could be a parent. Then it is completely incomprehensible to me that one might think that if there are not two who are married, one cannot be considered as a parent. I wish that one could also make sure that one had rules that did not make it difficult to connect all the children who need love and care, with the adults – married or not – who have opportunities, resources and lots of love to give, so that these children could have a better life. That is why I am very disappointed that the bulk of the population today does not seem to support this. Of course, it is the best of the child that should always be crucial. However, the rights and needs of children, in the view of the Workers' Party, call for an embellishment of this legislation. It should have come a while ago, because there are many children involved. One goal should be that as many as possible have the opportunity to get a better life, a better life, and that we have rules that make it possible to offer it to them, regardless of whether the applicant is lonely, married or cohabited. It must be crucial if you are able to care for children properly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e41	That this debate should also hold all the prejudices that the Christian People's Party might have had in different areas, I actually didn't expect, but I understand that it is a theme that we can expect to meet many times in the future. On this matter, the Committee recommended that the two representatives present be sent to the Government for its final decision and recommendation. The option of adopting alone was changed from September 1998 when the Ministry of Children and the Family issued a circular on foreign adoption with guidelines for the examination and approval of adoption home. As is known, the adoption law does not prohibit the adoption of singles, but the practice until the amendments in September 1998 was restrictive, so that only partial consent was granted to singles. The reason for the restrictive practice was also that one thought it would give the child the greatest security to have two parents. The new orientations hold fast by giving the child the greatest security to have two parents, but opens up for adoption for singles who already have a special connection to the child. Pre-consentation can also be provided where the seeker has special resources relative to the child. The evaluation also focused on whether the seeker has a stable and good network where the child can get in touch with both sexes through growth. Since the guidelines have been changed, the Ministry of Appeal has handled ten applications for pre-consent. Eight out of ten applications have been accepted. During the same period, three applications have been received by the national youth and adoption offices. Two of the cases are still for handling, and the applicant has received a pre-consent. So we're not talking about a race of a lot of seekers here. There are quite a few who want to adopt children as singles. It's not exactly how representatives Brustad and Bekkelem Orheim claim that it's almost impossible for single people to adopt – in fact, it's a pretty big percentage of applications that are accepted, compared to the numbers that I can give you today. On the contrary, people who meet the requirements of resources and care have very much pre-consented. As I'm aware, the single people who have applied for such a pre-consent are well aware of the handling of matters in the ministry. The situation is now quite different from that of Document No. The 8th proposal was submitted. Over the past few years, the Ministry has had a general review of several aspects of the adoption field. The work includes: led to the proposition for handling in Odelstinget later today. The work has also revealed the need for detailed guidelines for the handling of applications for adoption and for more guidance to those who make the applications in the municipalities. When this comes into place, everyone looking for adoption will benefit. I have now commented on the situation as he is following the new guidelines we received last fall and before Document No. The 8-proposal was submitted, and there's a need for more detail about the relationship for the sole adoption I can't see that we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e56	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e59	Let me first say that I don't think the council should feel persecuted, sail if I said in my post that I consider the Christian People's Party's position on this matter as if there are old prejudices and myths that apply, and I might have thought that after the recent national meeting it would be a little bit different tones and beats. Selected Response City Haugland said that having two parents gives the child the greatest security. I don't think there's anyone in this room who disagrees that it's good to have two parents in most cases, sail if in some context it's also good for children that it ends in other ways. But for those children from abroad that we're talking about here, it's not the option to have two parents, because there are often children living on the streets or in orphanages, and for different reasons, there are no parents who can take care of them. Shall we sit here in Norway on our high moral horse and say that if one is not married, shall one not be allowed to adopt children? The applicant should not even be evaluated, because it is best for the children from the countries we are talking about here that they have two parents! Why is it not that the Christian People's Party, and the Council of State, actually believe that it must be a person's, or person's, fitness that is essential for one to care for children or one? And then finally, what does the embellishment of the Government really mean? It is said that one must have had special contact with or knowledge of the child in advance in order for one to adopt. In the case of Norwegian conditions, does that mean that one must either be related to the child, or must have worked as a pre-school teacher, child-rescue education or similar in order to be able to adopt? And is it not that there are actually other people in this country who are lonely or cohabitants – with very large resources both economically and in other ways, and who also have a lot of love to give – who should be considered to care for children especially from other countries that need it most?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e68	I am pleased that the representative Brustad has found out that we had enjoyed our country meeting, and that we intend to go with renewed efforts in the political work. But we're not changing our entire program for that reason. I want to say that I think the children have the best of having two parents, but we know that not everyone has it. But now we're talking about creating a law, a regulation, for foreign adoption. I think last summer, when there was some debate in the papers about it being just as easy for single-minded to adopt as for two parents, that Parliamentary nest leader in the Labour Party, Tom Thoresen, went quite strongly out and stressed how important it is for the children to have two parents. I also think there are other parties that have underlined how important it is, and that there are other prominent people in the other party who are actually far on the way some of the proposals that the Government has now presented. What I want to underline is that we've softened up in this way that it's not just that you have the knowledge of a child who's going to tell you if you're going to be allowed to adopt. I don't take domestic adoption, because we're now talking about foreign adoption, which the representative Brustad actually knows very well. But what we're saying in addition is that if you're an extra shift and you have extra skills in relation to your children, you can also be evaluated. And this has led to the adoption of eight out of ten who have applied for the department, which is the Board of Appeal. And there's a lot of them. That means that the solitudes that seek to adopt are very resourceful people, and very many of them actually also have additional qualifications and competences in relation to children. But in addition, we think it is important that there is also a network around the sole seeker. It's actually so simple that being a parent is pretty tough. Being two is easier than being one, and that's why we require some extra competence from the individual, because it's tougher to be alone than being two.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e77	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e80	In Norway, it is not prohibited for lonely people to adopt, but one must say that it has developed a practice that has made it very difficult for those who are alone to obtain approval as adoptive parents. The Council of State has not made it directly easy to express that she is generally anxious that adoption by lone parents is not entirely in the best interests of the child. And it is not particularly easy for her to say in the newspaper that the lonely must actually be at the back of the line. It means a considerable uncertainty as to how to apply for those who are lonely, who feel that they have a potential for care and could well expect to adopt, or at least be considered approved as adoption parents. In the setting for Document No. 8:111 for 1997-98 it may seem that the parties agree very much, but the Labour Party has stressed that this area should be taken seriously. Unfortunately, I have the impression that the government parties, with some conservative family policy views, do not need more information about the best of the children in the adoption situation – and that has been emphasised by the Council of State. Unfortunately, it is also true that government parties have difficulties in seeing that lonely dependants can be a resource, and in many cases actually the best thing for a child. In fact, in the United Kingdom, adoption organisations have joined forces to recruit more adoption parents among the singles. For them, loneliness is an important target because they know that some children thrive when they have a mother or a father, and that a lonely person can give only one particular attention. And it's not necessarily that two parents give double attention. I think it's pretty important that we get as much spectrum of adoption parents as possible. This isn't about a right for adults to adopt, it's still the best thing for the child to count. We have many different children, and we have many different family forms that are good for children. A family should be a place where you feel safe and loved and where you have legal rights. It's the most important thing, and it's not really important to have a predetermined opinion on which family structure is the best.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e91	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e94	When discussing the considerations to be taken into account when assessing the adoption rules, it is clearly the central and essential needs of the child. Potential adoptive parents who weigh the most must not be taken into account. Then the debate follows on from the point of view of the Progress Party. The Progress Party does not consider that there is a great need to amend the adoption legislation at this point, as proposed by the proposers here. There is currently no shortage of married couples who want to adopt children, and these can give the adoptive child a lot that lonely can't. Children have a strong need for different role models to deal with. Having both a mother and a father contributes to this, and it gives these children who are already in a difficult situation, an extra follow-up that unfortunately cannot provide. Married couples, in the view of the Advance Party, are best placed to provide these children with the most stable growth and follow-up possible. The Workers' Party's proposal may also seem to go further on the rights of single people, i.e. whether or not they will be allowed to adopt in the same way as couples, if you want to become an adoptive parent. This is a completely wrong starting point. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the central rights and needs of the child are those of the child. The proposers here want to put on the agenda the rights of individual groups and whether solitude can be good employers and carers. For many years, proposers and their parties have stressed the importance of children growing up with parents of both sexes. The same politicians have also underlined the importance of gender quotas for children to have two sexes to deal with in different situations. Fear of a society where children grow up without male role figures has been an important argument here. Do not the proposers see that with this proposal they are helping to strengthen and increase the single-parent society? Is the single parent society what we want? On the other hand, the party wants a society in which the role of the nuclear family is considerably strengthened, and that children have the most secure and secure growth conditions possible. Re-examined proposals doubt that the Progress Party will contribute to its strengthening. If you want to increase the number of possible adoptive parents, you better look at measures that can make more couples want to adopt, or perhaps look at the law. With this background, the Progress Party cannot support the proposal. We believe that this is a step backwards in the family policy in Norway, and the Progress Party will not be involved. In some specific cases, such as: kinship can become adoptive parents, already according to the law today, and this will continue to be maintained by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e103	I am a little surprised when I hear the representative Brustad talk about adoption and adoption rights and children in the world and children at home in Norway. Here's a mix of issues that don't look like anything. Brustad is talking about street children in Brazil. If a person wants to improve the conditions of street children in Brazil, he gets it through the organisations that work to improve street children's conditions in the countries where they live. There are no street children in the 8-10-12 age group who are the wanted adoptive children in Norway, nor are street children in this age group released for adoption. The vast majority of these street children actually have family in their home country. There's the need in the home, the poverty in the home, that chases a lot of these kids out on the street. So a help where the children and the family are located will significantly improve the street children's situation. That millions of children in the world are suffering is right. But they are not in line to be adopted to Norway, and we have to deal with the fact that we have far more adoption-seeking parents than we have released children for adoption. So when you're restrictive in giving adoption rights, the possibility of loneliness, that doesn't mean that a child out there is missing parents. They don't. The day we have more children who are approved for adoption in Norway than we have adoption-seeking parents, then, of course, is the time to change the legislation. It has also been said several times from this pulpit. And I think it is unfair simply when the Workers' Party combines the assessment of Norwegian lone parents' efforts for their children with the opportunity of single adoption applicants to be assessed as adoption parents. The two things have nothing to do with each other. There are no restrictive rules restricting the right of Norwegian people to bear and raise their own children. It was supposed to be missing, too! But as a society, we must demand those who are to be entrusted with the care of the children of others, and we must never forget that adoption children are basically the children of others who are left in confidence that in Norway they will have the very best opportunity for a good future. It's our job to make sure that they get.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e111	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2772]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e127	I do not know if I will take it now or during the explanation of vote, but this is a proposal that everyone agrees with in the remarks in the vote, so I ask for it to be sent to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e132	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2772]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e148	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2772]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e164	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2773]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e177	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e195	To Case No 2, 3 and 4 do not have a voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e201	During the debate Sonja Irene Sjøli put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and Socialist Left Party. Ola T. Lånke – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e206	Just a brief explanation of vote: I would recommend the representatives of the Christian People's Party to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e211	In the course of the debate, the Labour Party has made it clear that, together with one of the government parties, the Central Party, we are in favour of this proposal, and we would think that the usual thing was that it would not be contested and that the Council of State would take it on board. But earlier today, the Council of State has asked for a vote on the proposal. With this, I would recommend that the Members of the Labour Party vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e218	I said earlier in the debate that the centre party was in favour of this proposal, and I consider it quite natural that it should be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e223	There may be no need for explanations of vote, because I think during the debate I signalled that the Progress Party is opposed to this proposal. I also recommend the group to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e228	Then we should be ready for voting. A number of parties have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal, and one party has announced that they will vote against it. The proposal of the Right and Socialist Left Party is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a report on the quality of life and the quality of life of lesbians and gays in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e251	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Karita Bekkemelm Orheim on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 2, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right and Center Party proposal No. 3, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Advance Party. May-Helen Molvær Grimstad – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e266	I want the centre party to vote against the vote and for proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e271	Then we're ready for voting. First of all, there is a vote on the proposal from the Party of Advancement, then alternately between the Committee's position and the proposal from the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Central Party, and finally on the proposal from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left. We start with proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:111 [[1997-98]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e288	I voted wrong! I voted in favour, but I had to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e296	That should be 84 votes against and 17 votes in favour. That being the case, the proposal has been rejected. The Committee's position and proposal No shall be replaced by an alternative vote. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:111 [[1997-98]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e319	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Persons living in stable cohabitation or living alone shall have the possibility of being recognised as adoptive parents in the same way as others if they meet the resource and care requirements of an adoptive parent.’;» [[minimum 2 years duration]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e337	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Grethe G. Fossum, on behalf of the Workers' Party, submitted by the meeting of 23 March 1999. In the course of the debate, the proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal shall then read as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government consider extending the sanctions provided for in the Criminal Code in order to better safeguard the intention to protect children against persons convicted of child abuse and to ensure that they are not given the opportunity to work or to work with children.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e350	The vote will take place on a proposal from the representative of Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right, sent by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 23 March 1999. Trond Helleland – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e355	As we have been informed during the day that there is a similar proposal for consideration in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I ask that the proposal be submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e360	This proposal has also been turned into a transmission proposal. The proposal shall then read as follows: ‘The Government is advised to set up a high-speed child-crime committee, the aim of which is to establish a list of measures to prevent and address childhood and juvenile delinquency.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20-2.ana.ud2171e371	There is a vote on the proposal by the representative Eirik Langeland Fjeld, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, sent from the meeting of the Odelstinget on 23 March 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up proposals for a national system of prior authorisation for private institutions used in the field of child protection.’
