ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e44	Councillor Anne Enger Lahnstein released 2 kgl. propositions [[see under Unit]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e58	Proposals provide for a separate regulation to lay down rules on the costs to be borne by municipalities for the calculation of investments, operation and maintenance in the water and sewerage sectors. It points out that an independent control function should be established and that the audit system should be improved. Furthermore, the proposers will allow consumers greater access to appeals against the fixing of fees. The proposers also believe that the individual municipality should be able to deviate from the law if it suffers effects which become unduly burdensome for subscribers. When the majority of the committee chooses to reject the proposal, it is because one believes that most of it has already been taken care of or is taken care of by the ongoing revision of the regulation. It is easy to find examples of unfortunate individual cases with existing regulations. However, the majority believe that it is the practice that is too poor in these cases. Municipalities could make greater use of the law in the case of complaints, exemptions from subscribers, etc. Large parts of the water supply network in Norwegian cities and agglomerations are very old. It originates largely from the beginning of the century and does not meet modern safety requirements to provide hygienically safe and adequate water. Over the next decade, large parts of the network will have to be transformed, with high costs as a consequence. In order to do so, municipalities must have the opportunity to charge fees to cover the costs. They also have to have a lot of freedom to solve these problems in different ways. The Committee does not wish to restrict municipal freedom on this issue. In a letter from the Ministry of the Environment to the Committee on Energy and the Environment dated 12 January of this year, the Ministry has indicated that work is being carried out on the revision of the existing regulation on municipal water and fees. Some of the changes in the proposals made by representatives Hedstrøm and Solholm have already been addressed in the revised regulation. A group of organisations, including the Consumer Council, the NHO and the Norwegian Water and Sewage Works Association, have jointly submitted amendments that could bring better consistency between the cost of the service and the user’s payment. A two-part fee model is part of this. With regard to the proposed amendment to Section 65 of the Planning and Building Act, where the proposal implies that in some cases the municipality may not require a connection with public facilities, the majority of the Committee refers to letters from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, explaining these issues. Paragraph 65 already provides for discretionary access for municipalities to exempt buildings and properties from the obligation of connection. We don't see any reason to reinforce this. One for the acceptance of private installations may result in large expenditures for the construction of public installations for those associated with the installations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e75	There are currently considerable differences between municipalities and municipalities in the setting of fees for water and sewerage charges. In many cases, this leads to discrimination and high levels of unfairness for individuals. It has its background in the fact that the law of municipal water and sewerage charges gives municipalities great freedom to set fees themselves in this area. Furthermore, the Planning and Building Act regulates § 65 requirements for connection to public water pipelines. This can also seem clearly unreasonable to many. We have seen examples of some who are associated with better water quality private waterworks than public waterworks being forced to connect to lower water quality public waterworks. This occurs especially in the case of transfers of property. Document No The 8 proposal under consideration today sets out the main principles behind the current rules, which aim to ensure that consumers of real estate continue to fully cover all the costs of public water and sewage treatment plants. The purpose of the amendments is to eliminate the unfairness of the provisions. Studies have shown that municipal fees have increased sharply in recent years, and the resulting conflicts have also been increasing. Water and sewerage services must be self-financing rather than a municipal source of income, as unfortunately in some municipalities today. The principle of self-sufficiency should prevent municipalities from over-pricing their services so as not to allow them to subsidise other parts of the operation of the municipality. Document No The 8 proposal also provides for the municipalities that wish to do so to eliminate the connection fee, so that municipalities can fully cover their costs over the annual fee. Furthermore, clear guidelines for the setting of charges should be set and the legislation should provide better protection for subscribers than at present, so that the differences between municipalities and municipalities can also be reduced. It is true, as the Ministry claims in its letter of 12 January, that parts of the bill are in force by being incorporated into the regulations of the law. It is also positive that the Ministry is currently reviewing the current regulation on the charge of municipal water and sewerage. However, I would like to point out that even with the changes to the regulations to which the Ministry refers, it will be important to make the proposed legislative changes so that we can achieve better and longer-term consumer protection in the future and that the legislative proposals will prevent the municipalities from forcing citizens to move from a private waterworks to a public waterworks by transferring property. However, I am both surprised and disappointed that the Progress Party was standing alone on the proposal in committee. This will be interesting, not least in view of the forthcoming municipal election campaign. I would like to mention proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Progress Party. The suggestion has been inserted on pages 4 and 5 of the option.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e98	Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e101	Only a few brief comments from the Right side. We believe that the proposers raise both interesting and important issues. However, we believe that the proposal needs a more thorough investigation and should be the subject of a more extensive consultation round than the Committee has had occasion to do. We would therefore ask the Ministry to look at the intentions behind the proposal and submit the proposal to a larger consultation, where both municipalities and consumer representatives, i.e. the subscribers, they are represented. The Waksdal itself points to an important issue. He says the municipalities have great freedom in this area. For the Right, it is an important point that municipalities should have great freedom in general. This is about trust in municipal autonomy, and I fully agree with the representative, Mr Vaksdal, that there could be an important issue in the forthcoming election campaign. Otherwise, there is broad support for the principle that municipal charging should be at self-cost. However, there is no obligation for municipalities to operate effectively, so the Right wants the Ministry to also consider whether a mandatory charging obligation for municipal services should be imposed to ensure that citizens receive the service at the lowest possible price. Finally, there is a element in the proposal that we believe could be problematic, and that is the proposal to remove the connection fee and to pass the entire cost on to the annual fee. In that case, it would mean that those who have already paid the connection fee will receive a higher annual fee, and then a new injustice will be introduced into the system. Our summary is that we will ask the Ministry to take a closer look at this, and that is why we want the proposal to be annexed to the Minutes, and not rejected, as the majority says. I take up the proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e116	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has drawn up the proposal he referred to. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 241]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e132	At the request of the family, culture and the administrative committee, the president will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will suggest that there are no replications after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e135	The odelsting process is currently dealing with changes in the copyright law. These changes are based on EU directives on the legal protection of databases. Let it be said immediately: this is a heavy and difficult matter. But with the emergence of the Internet and frontierless telecommunications, this is nevertheless a very important thing that has prospects for the future. The Committee agrees unanimously with the legislative amendments. These are mainly about modernising the law so that databases and computer programs are also covered by the copyright law. With regard to the comments on the matter, the members of the Committee have broadly similar opinions. It is established that rapid technological developments make it absolutely necessary to adapt the copyright to the reality of today, because databases can be very valuable products in today's information society. Technological developments in this area are so rapid that the Ministry must make an ongoing assessment of the need for legislative changes. The protection of databases must constantly be balanced against the obvious demands of society for access to information. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that the collecting societies have responded to the Ministry's interpretation of the applicable Norwegian law as regards the scope of the exclusive right under the copyright law § 2. The dispute concerns the conditions under which a copy of a work over which the author is entitled may be referred to. The Ministry talks about intermediate storage which constitutes a necessary, but parallel, phase in a transport of data for, for example: display, and that, in the opinion of the Department, this is normally of such a volatile nature that it will not always constitute a copy in the sense of copyright. This may mean that if you pick up a document on screen from the Internet, there is a so-called volatile fixation, or an ephemeral intermediate storage, as some people also call it. The collecting societies consider that the Ministry makes an unnecessary restriction to the exclusive right by saying that the fixation must have a certain duration and independence in order to be an exclusive act under Section 2. A comprehensive committee underlines the importance of maintaining a balance between the interests of rightholders and users even in a digital age. Laws must not be made in such a way as to make the user liable for copyright infringement in the case of temporary storage carried out during surfing on the Internet. However, if someone makes further use of a temporary copy, e.g. in a commercial sense, it will be different. In the comments, the right has chosen not to address the department's assessment of limitations on the exclusive right. We believe that this is too early and show in this regard the extensive work being done in the EU with a new directive on exclusive rights, or copyright, which it is called ‘nynorsk’. This work has recently been strongly updated through the rapid development of new Internet storage media, such as MP3 and the Norwegian-developed Fast Search & Transfer, which is a tool for downloading audio files from the Internet with an approximate CD sound quality. Of course, the record industry is concerned about this development. The Internet is clearly a threat to this industry, while there is an excellent medium for the provision of information and music. This picture includes work on the EU Copyright Directive. Right will wait for this before we decide on difficult questions about copyright, and we find it strange that the majority does not have the patience to wait. After all, we are behind the users' concerns, but it must be legitimate to try to clarify difficult issues relating to the concept of exclusive rights before concluding. This is a complicated law, with a complicated concept. However, it is a law that is important for the creators of copyrights, while the law is important for the users of databases and Internet information. We agree with the legislative changes, but at the same time will strongly stress that technological developments must always be closely followed in order for us as legislators to have the least opportunity to go along with them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e157	The Breathwork Act is probably some of the most complicated legislation available. In addition, when we go into and regulate the Internet, it goes without saying that some people each have problems dealing with the complicated terms of the law, and when the lawyers who sit in the law court, at the top of it, can't agree between themselves, it goes without saying that the legal aspects of this are very complicated. What I think is a little strange in this matter is that the political constellation Right and Left is – contrary to the reality being tested otherwise – among the most regulatory, while the centre and the left want a little less regulation. I am going to focus on the one controversial point, whether we are going to decide today on the interpretations of the exclusive right by the Department, or whether we are going to wait for a decision in the European Union. Of course, it is that we are at risk of having this case re-examined in a few years. So we have different perceptions of when a sample is produced. The majority have ended up supporting the Government, while the minority chooses to await a position from the EU. One of the government’s arguments to allow temporary storage without this being a sample production has been a Nordic joint race to influence the EU. Let me make it clear that it has not been an important argument for the Workers' Party. On the other hand, consideration for users has weighed heavily: we both want to avoid being a criminal without being aware of it, and have a functional network where the speed is actually influenced by whether there are so-called proxy servers, or whether they need to be switched off. That being said, it is not the intention of the Workers' Party to render the rightholders unlawful in relation to what is happening online. Therefore, there is reason to stress that there is no fixed duration relative to when storage is volatile, or there is a copy that will trigger any kind of compensation obligation – with the possibilities of the Internet, it would also be reasonably absurd to do so. On the other hand, it is the use of temporary storage which determines when it is to be regarded as a production of copies and triggers compensation obligations, which the Workers' Party uses in this case. In this way, we believe that the interests of rightholders are taken care of, while avoiding harm to users. Finally, I would like to add that I am deeply concerned about the development of some cultural areas; especially in the field of music, there are major challenges if we aim to stick with our own artists – without necessarily being paid by the government. The solution is not – I am sure – in the proposal we are discussing today, but rather in a systematic effort on the part of the artists, both economically and legally.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e174	The Progress Party mainly supports the proposals for amendment on the basis that the Progress Party will make it very clear that the interests of rightholders must be taken into account. The party notes that the rapid development in this area requires that we be observant and work to get as much equal rules as possible within the EEA area as soon as possible – this, of course, because databases and data exchange do not stop at border borders. As a conclusion, the Progress Party is reasonably satisfied with Ot.prp. No 85, and will continue to work to ensure that the position of rightholders is not reduced but strengthened. On this basis, the Party will wait until the EU Directive on the exclusive right is available for consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e181	The proposed changes to the copyright law currently under consideration are not extensive but nevertheless necessary and important updates as a result of technical progress. The proposal is a direct follow-up to the EU Directive on the legal protection of databases, aimed at harmonising the levels of protection of databases within the countries linked to the internal market. Norwegian legislation already has extensive intellectual property protection for databases. The Ministry has therefore found it satisfactory to propose only limited legislative changes to bring it into line with the corresponding provisions throughout the EEA territory. On the part of the centre parties, we note that there is a cross-political consensus on the proposed legislative changes in the proposal, and there should therefore be no further debate on this. I would like to pay close attention to a brief remark relating to the little disagreement that has occurred in the committee in connection with this proposition. The issue is whether the Storting should provide its support to the line followed by Norway in the negotiations on the copyright protection of so-called 'volatile' or 'temporary' specimens. As you know, this was an important theme of the 1996 Diplomatic Conference under the auspices of the World Copyright Organisation. The same issue is currently being discussed in Europe, within the EU. In this context, Norway, together with other Nordic countries, has opposed the proposal on the protection of copyright for so-called ‘volatile’ or ‘temporary’ copies. In particular, it has been concerned with maintaining an important balance between the interests of rightholders and users also in the digital field. Norway has been committed to ensuring the protection of rights of rightholders also in digital media, but without simultaneously making the conditions of risk to users. Copyright should not be legislated in such a way that users are held liable for copyright infringement by temporary storage, which occurs when, for example: surfing the Internet. A completely different question will be if the material is stored in addition to what is necessary for this type of use, or further use is made of temporarily stored specimens. The copyright could then be invoked immediately. The majority have given their support to the line that Norway has led in the negotiations on this point, and today we do not yet know what the result is. It would be very desirable to find a common position that not only serves the interests of rightholders but also takes reasonable and necessary account of the needs of users. At the same time, there is reason to favour the driving role of Norwegian authorities in this area as well. I also refer to the comments that we are included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e200	As others have pointed out, this is a follow-up to an EU directive and a change in the copyright law. It's also, as many people have said, a complicated matter. I am pleased to note that the Committee has unanimously endorsed the legislative amendments, and I have noticed that the Committee stresses the importance of both protecting rightholders and maintaining the balance between the interests of rightholders and users for a digital time. I would like to mention in this context that it is in the area of copyright and for many years has been an extensive Nordic cooperation with great justice. This Nordic legal unit is a major advantage when copyright is more and more the subject of international regulation and it seeks to implement key principles for balancing rights against social users and for the choice of solutions for the international harmonisation of exclusive rights. One example is that the special Nordic catalogue rule has just been a model for EU database protection in the directive. Our time is marked by many new opportunities that have opened up in the development of digital technology. It also poses major challenges for copyright. Issues related to digital technology opportunities are also markedly borderless, and activities are carried out unhindered by national borders and jurisdictions. This is precisely why it is so important to work internationally on these issues. Treaties have already been adopted under the auspices of the World Organisation for Copyrights under the United Nations system, WIPO, while at the same time working on new agreements, including: on the protection of databases and the EU is currently working on a proposal for a directive on copyright in the information society. I therefore believe quite certainly that, if not for too long, this House will be presented again for legislative proposals relating to the area of copyright.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e211	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e214	I just want to make a little clarification in relation to the article from the representative Alstad. He said that the Right and Advance Party have taken a more regulatory line. At least this does not apply to the Right part. The right in the setting says that we don't want to decide on the department's assessment in relation to the restriction of the exclusive right now. With regard to the Progress Party, I have also noticed that they are taking a more regulatory line by saying that they want to strengthen the exclusive rights of copyright organisations. It's a more regulation-friendly line, and we haven't given it our support. We want to await the examination of the EU Copyright Directive, and then to take it as a starting point when we are going to deal with this matter further. I would like to stress that in my speech I placed great emphasis on the importance of users' concerns, and that we are, to a large extent, joining in what the Committee and the Department have put forward in this regard. On the other hand, we will await the processing of the copyright directive before we take a final position on issues relating to the production of temporary copies and temporary fixations, or more ephemeral intermediate storage, as it is also called.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e221	I understand that the Right Representative was concerned about my presentation of his party as more regulatory and at the same time less friendly, when one actually chooses not to take a decision on the question being discussed, as opposed to the Progress Party, which underlines it in the vote. However, it does not change the fact that there is a process within the EU that is actually capable of adapting to the views of the Workers’ Party and the Centre’s parties in this matter and that will give more emphasis to users than appears to be an existing perception within the EU system. We all know that the European Parliament has already discussed the matter and reached a decision. If the Right had been concerned with being less regulatory and at the same time more user-friendly, it would probably have gone to what is the majority's position today. But it was more like a paradox. The important thing in this matter is that we take care of the interests of both users and rightholders. And I think that with the approach that the majority today advocates, the interests of rightholders will be properly protected, even if it does not automatically trigger the obligation to pay if a temporary fixation occurs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e230	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 242]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e244	There are many who have looked forward to new tax laws and to cleaning up the regulations, especially those who use the legal text. The Ministry seems to have done a thorough preparatory work, taking full account of comments and observations. In the follow-up to Stortinget, the Minister of Finance has followed up this good line of comprehensive and timely answers to questions sent by the Committee. Let me say a few words about the history of treasure, which is practically as long as society. We know of a mill of mediaeval tithes, which were almost gross taxes. In our so-called modern age, we know about income taxes from the time around the Napoleonic wars. We know in particular that England levied income taxes to finance its warriors. In Norway, we have had continuous state taxes on income only from 1892. In the meantime, however, income taxes to municipalities were well established. The first general laws about this are from 1892. Those laws had their predecessors in the income tax for special purposes, I mention in particular school taxes and poor taxes. The tax debate towards the end of the 1870s was driven by the failure of customs revenue as a result of the economic downturn in Norway — a reflection of the depression in the inter national economy. Historians say that the Norwegian state was at the centre of the realization of a comprehensive development programme in the transport sector at that time. Good times in the first half of the 1870s had led to decisions on continued railway development financed by loans from abroad. On 29 September 1899, the Ministry of Finance set up a committee to review tax legislation, in particular to investigate the issue of the introduction of a new system of compulsory declaration. On 21 March 1911, the Committee gave its opinion on the suspension, laying and laying down of its meetings, following which the adopted new laws were sanctioned on 18 August 1911. Industry society grew up. The need for public activity increased and thus the question of how to contribute to the community. The tax system had entered the political debate as one of the most important instruments of cohesion. If one draws out some of the headings of recent tax reform, there are broader tax foundations and lower tax rates. The 1992 tax reform is based on this principle. Over time, it has become increasingly clear that the law, almost a hundred years old, needed a legal review — both the tax law of 1911 and the various specific laws available. The tax law of 1911, as it appears today, is extremely unwieldy and difficult to find. For example, paragraphs have become very extensive and unbridled, paragraphs with provisions that are not systematically related, and there are provisions on related matters that do not belong. The tax law of 1911 also reflects many different phases in the development of spelling and forms of expression over a hundred years. Provisions that have remained unchanged since 1911 build in particular: on the spelling of 1907, with elements from the spellings of 1917, 1927 and 1938. And naturally, the forms of expression reflect the different epochs of time. It is now necessary to use a uniform, more modern and more free text. One shall also be aware that the tax legislation of 1911 contains about 25 laws containing tax provisions, adopted over a long period of time, and there is a great need for coordination of provisions of specific legislation. It has been important for the Committee to transpose as far as possible the specific laws into the general tax law, unless special consideration is given to the maintenance of the law as its own special law. The main objective of the proposal for a new tax law is to give tax rules a simpler and more transparent form so that they are more easily accessible to more users. It is important to be able to adapt any law to the user groups — including this law. Using user groups, we mean the tax collectors and people who assist the tax collectors, the equality authorities, the courts and, above all, the educational and research institutions. Attention has also been paid to finding solutions that provide a robust legal framework, in the sense that they are designed to make future regulatory changes without destroying the structure of the law. The attitude to new tax laws continues to be based on three main laws regulating direct taxes on wealth and income: Act on taxes on wealth and income — Tax Act on Equation Management — Equation Act on the payment and collection of taxes — Tax Payment Act In the summer of 1995, the draft technically revised tax law was sent to the public for consultation. A whole of 78 instances were asked to give an opinion. Furthermore, contact with expertise outside the Ministry was established and an external reference group was set up. The Committee has held consultations with different groups. Furthermore, the Committee has placed the emphasis on the mere technical revision of tax legislation and that it should not be combined with any substantive changes in terms of taxable profit, deductible costs, etc. In Chapter 7, Notes to the proposal for a new tax law, a unanimous committee proposes a total of 26 proposals for concrete amendments. It will lead me too far to go into all the amendments, but let me take an example: cap. 7.13 § 6-81 Special deductions for age and disability, etc. The Committee notes that it is appropriate to clarify that the special deduction should be given in the general income, as laid down in the other special deductions provisions. The Committee promotes several editorial corrections in the form of proposals. I refer in this context to section 7.27. The Committee shares only one issue, the transposition of specific laws. Otherwise, the setting is unanimous. In the Section for the Implementation of Regulations, I would like to mention in particular the Committee's comments: ‘The Committee considers that several reasons justify the incorporation of permanent tax exemption rules on group internal transfers into the Tax Act. However, the Committee considers that this cannot be achieved by simply transferring the individual provisions of the Group Regulation in relation to the treatment of Ot.prp. No 86 and with the deadlines set for this work. [[1997-98]] However, the Committee considers that the transposition of the legislation in question should give the necessary priority in order to ensure that the new tax law will be fully applied in this area by the entry into force of the law. In this context, the Committee meets the Government’s legislative amendments proposed in good time before 1 January 2000. The Committee attaches great importance to improving the accessibility of the overall regulatory framework in the field of tax law. The Committee therefore takes the view that the Government is working for a rapid compilation of the provisions of the Tax Code in one or more main regulations. ‘... When a decision is taken at the beginning of March, it would be good time for the different user groups to get involved in this legal text. It would then be a good opportunity for the new law to come into force from 1 January 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e310	I'm gonna be very short. In this setting, the Progress Party has two minority proposals in addition to the adjustment, and it is about making its own chapters in the Tax Act on Petroleum Taxation and Shipwreck Tax. Our rationale is simply to make legislation more readable in these areas as well. We're pointing out that we have a separate chapter for the power tax, and it seems that it would be natural for the sake of legibility to have it for these conditions as well. I am therefore addressing our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e317	The representative, Siv Jensen, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e320	Our tax legislation is very comprehensive, but also very necessary. The Tax Act provides the basis for direct taxation, which concerns approx. half of government revenue. Our society is completely dependent on solid tax revenues, and we need the most up-to-date and user-friendly legislation to get them. The Tax Act imposes requirements on the entire Norwegian population and on the whole of industry. The legislator must form the law so that it is fit for both the public and the taxpayers. I am pleased that Odelstinget today is united to replace our old tax legislation with a modern and forward-looking law. With the entry into force of the next year, the new law will start at the same time as the new century, and the old tax law of 1911 will expire at the same time as the current century. This is in every way appropriate. Then we can rather refrain from the ambition that the new law will apply to the whole of the next millennium. The need for a new tax law will probably arise again in a few generations. But at least it is about very long-term legislation, and cross-political agreement on that is very positive. The old tax law of 1911 was a significant fiscal reform and came about after extensive professional and political work. The majority debated the matter for weeks in the summer of 1911, before spring when young King Haakon VII was able to impose sanctions on the Council of State on 18 August 1911. The first comment version was thin as a tile compared to the bricks produced today. There are constant laws and regulations, case law and practices that have led tax legislation to grow until what some would call mammoth editions. There should be some comfort in the fact that all countries with modern and comprehensive tax systems must operate with detailed written regulations and instructions in this area. The option is incomplete and unclear regulation with extensive interpretability. Then it's better with comprehensive written rules that give less ambiguity and less interpretability. The Norwegian solutions are no more voluminous than being familiar with them, compared to other countries’ tax regulations. Long before 1911, there was a fundamental democratic principle of the right of self-taxation of the people. The exercise of the tax authority under the Constitution is one of the main functions of the Storting. This is partly because the elected representatives are to determine the means that the people have to provide in the form of taxes, partly because the tax revenue provides the basis for the public enterprises and measures on which the Stortinget and the Government otherwise spend most of their time. The adoption of a new tax law in this Chamber is not just a formal technique, but a confirmation that our democracy operates in a fundamental area. The development of the tax law after 1911 is unnecessary here. The result of the change processes in almost every single accumulation session had become a patchwork with a weak built-in structure and with poor leniency. We had therefore clearly come to a stage where a new and modern law should replace the old one. This applies even if the new law does not contain significant tax policy material changes, but only codifies the previously identified solutions. The Financial Committee has joined the need for technical legislative renewal without going into tax policy discussions on the solutions contained in the old legislation. Such discussions could have quickly been devastating to the Grand Duchy's work on the matter, since there is, of course, a sea of tax policy themes enshrined in the law. Instead, there is agreement to stick to the technical design, namely to give a new tax law with the same material content as the previous legislation, but with a transparent structure and a clean and consistent language. That is why, as we have seen, there is no need for an extensive debate on the matter here today. I have good expectations for the new law. It should facilitate the relationship between taxpayers and the tax administration by making solutions clearer and easier to identify and explain. On some points, the Committee has found weaknesses and flaws in the drafts of the Ministry. This is corrected in agreement with the department. It is a fully reunited law that is now passed. The challenge will lie below with users, i.e. the tax administration, the tax advisors and the tax payers themselves. I expect that they will all benefit from how the new law is designed. In fact, most taxpayers are rarely really excited about new tax legislation, except when it gives them new relief. It does not do so, but it does not impose any new tax burden. Instead, tax collectors have access to a systematic law that should be easier to deal with. Before the coming into force of the new year, tax changes adopted after the adoption of the proposal for a new tax law must be incorporated into the new law. I also refer to what has been said in the committee position on the incorporation of the group regulation into the law, which was also discussed by the case rapporteur. This will be ensured by a projection to the harvest. Then it's up to us, as grantors and executives, to use the tax resources so prudent and fair that the tax system is all for the benefit of taxpayers. Respect for the tax law depends a lot on people feeling that the funds they have given are being used for good purposes. Respect for the tax law means respect for our political system and for people's ability to understand the system. Disagreement on the details we have to live with. But in general, we have a pedagogical task here, on which more political energy should probably be invested. New tax laws give us politicians an opportunity to show that the tax is for the sake of the people. People have the right to make demands on us when, through tax legislation, we make quite large but necessary demands on them. A solid and serviceable public sector and well-considered decision-making is the best answer we can give to people's obvious demands for currency for their tax money. In the Storting and Government there is a great responsibility to give people such a currency. People deserve a new tax law, and I'm glad that Odelstinget is contributing to it today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e346	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 243]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e360	This case is in most areas an adjustment to the existing legislation, both to improve the rules on real estate and to protect the interests of customers to a greater extent. To a large extent, the Financial Committee has given its opinion unanimously, and on most of the points we have also followed the Government's proposals. On one point, however, the Committee’s position differs unanimously from that of the Government, and that of the housing law. The Committee has shown that despite the free choice of brokers for each unit-holder to sell housing, there has been a large majority who have opted for assistance from the housing law. In the interests of consumers, the Committee has understood the Ministry's proposal that the substantive rules of the real estate law should also be binding on the turnover of residential buildings, but despite this, the Committee has nevertheless chosen not to recommend it. Firstly, the Committee considers that such a scheme would affect the housing laws differently, depending on their size and their turnover. Secondly, we believe that the knowledge that the housing law has of the shares being traded gives them some kind of special competence. Furthermore, attention should also be paid to the fact that in many parts of the country there is very little access to real estate agencies and that housing law plays a very central role in this respect. On the basis of it, the Committee proposes that the housing law be able to contribute, without any authorisation, to the marketing of shares in related housing law where the housing construction team is the manager. It has been the main intention of the Committee. In retrospect, there have been views on the Committee's position that can be well understood, and in particular on the fact that the housing law is exempted from Section 4-1, which concerns who is to be charged with commissions in the case of the sale of housing. It has been pointed out that this may distort competition in relation to real estate agencies and, in consultation with the Committee today, I find it appropriate to stress from this point of view that it has not been the Committee's wish to establish distortions of competition between the real estate agents and the housing law. Our main intention has been that the housing law should be able to operate without funding. Therefore, the Committee now expects the Ministry to look at this and, if necessary, to come back with a technical adjustment, so that, in the event of a distortion of competition, as has been pointed out, any technical adjustment to this situation is made and cleaned up. The only exception in the setting concerns the question of fitness requirements. The majority of the Committee follows the position of the Government, while the minority, consisting of the Advance Party, the Right and Twist Elections, consider that the credit supervision needs to be able to exercise greater discretion in matters relating to the revocation of property brokerage letters, as some cases may be temporary and may not necessarily represent a danger to customers. Therefore, the minority believes that it is sufficient that the Credit Authority is allowed to withdraw the property broker's letter, and I take this into account the minority's proposal. I would also recommend the Committee's position, with the oral clarification I have now given on behalf of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e379	The representative, Siv Jensen, has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e382	With the broad consensus on which the committee gave its opinion, I did not really intend to have any comments, but after the information that the case-rapporteur, Siv Jensen, now came along, it is perhaps reasonable to have a brief statement on the matter. The government has in Ot.prp. No 24 for 1998-99 proposed changes to the law on real estate, etc. The Government has taken the view that there is a need for regulatory adjustments applicable to real estate agents and real estate agents in order to better protect the customers of real estate agents and to stimulate competition between real estate agents. I am pleased that the Financial Committee shares essentially the assessments made by the Government on the basis of its legislative proposal and that, in most respects, the Committee supports the Government's proposals in Ot.prp. No 24th@item: A minority of the Committee, consisting of the members of the Party of Advances, Right and Cross-Political People's Party, suggests that the Banking Authority should be able to assess whether or not to withdraw letters of real estate when the broker is no longer competent or able to fulfil its obligations as they fall due. The majority of the Committee, like the Government, advocates the withdrawal of the appropriations in these cases at all times. A unanimous financial committee has opted for other housing scheme schemes for the movement of related housing shares other than those proposed by the Government. The suspension differs mainly from the Government’s proposal by not applying to the obligation to grant housing permits to the turnover of related housing units. The Committee also advocates the provision of collateral and the supervision of such real estate. The Committee is also in favour of the same requirements as proposed by the Government for the treatment of client funds and the execution of brokerage. I believe that demand for funding would be the best solution. In this way, any default in the turnover of residential building layers of related housing shares could be reduced by withdrawing the appropriation. I find it difficult to see some benefit from the Committee's proposal for housing construction teams that carry out their real estate agency tasks to the point and the point. However, credit supervision will be able to penalise maladministration and periodic penalty payments. All in all, therefore, I believe that the Committee's position does not differ significantly from that of the Government, and of course I take note of the Committee's opinions. I have also taken note of the Committee's reasons for the solution that has been adopted and which was also explained by the rapporteur. However, I would like to point out, as a point of reference, that, unlike the Government, the Committee has opted for exemptions from the requirement that the contracting entity pay brokers for the sale of related housing shares by housing companies. As a result, housing layers may charge the purchaser for remuneration. The general rule is that the seller should pay the broker’s remuneration. Over the years, the Ministry of Finance and Credit Supervision have received several enquiries from dissatisfied persons who buy flats and who have to pay brokerage fees both on sale and on purchase. This can be seen as unreasonable. The exemption contributes to the distortion of competition by the fact that the seller does not pay a brokerage fee. This can probably also explain why the sellers in housing law choose the housing construction layer as a broker, which the Committee emphasises in the draft suspension. Now I understand that the rapporteur on behalf of the Committee has come to the conclusion that the best solution here might not have been chosen. We should then have a contact between the Committee and the Ministry so that we can, if appropriate, make proposals for other rules. I take it back with me, but I would like to confirm that it is so to understand that the committee has come to the conclusion that there may have been distortions of competition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e399	I guess I can go a long way to confirm that. For formal reasons, it has not been possible for the Committee to change its position before Odelstingen's proceedings, and we therefore explain this view from this chair, so that the department can assess an appropriate follow-up to this particular situation. However, I would like to emphasise once again that what has been the Committee's main intention is still to be safeguarded, namely that housing construction laws should be able to continue their turnover without funding, but that the exact relationship of possible distortion of competition on the settlement side should be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e404	I just want to confirm what the case spokesperson was about, and what the Minister of Finance asked for confirmation. What has always been the main concern of the Committee is that housing law should be able to continue to operate without funding, but who should be charged when it comes to commissions has not been part of the debate we have been conducting. So if the department thinks this is a distortion of competition, it's clear that they have to look at that particular piece and come back to the committee or the Storting when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e409	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 302]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e417	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-4.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e423	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No I, by Mr Voksdal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal No. 2, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of Right Opening for voice explanations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e435	If our proposal against presumption were not to reach a majority, I would recommend that the representatives of the Progress Party vote in favour of the proposal from the Right that Document No. 8:110 is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e440	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, from the Progress Party, and then alternately between the recommendation of the Committee and proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal from the Progress Party is:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e519	The suggestion from the Right sounds: ‘Document No. 8:110 [[amendment of Section 65, third paragraph, to remove the background to a number of conflicts associated with these municipal charges]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e530	The President assumes – and has been confirmed – that the Progress Party will support the right subsidiary proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e664	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e671	The legislative decision will be sent to the Saving Decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e677	During the debate, Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Progress Party, has presented two proposals. Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring together the petroleum tax provisions as its own chapter of the new tax law. ‘... Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to bring together the company tax provisions in the new tax law in a separate chapter. ‘... Both of these proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e6583	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e6590	The legislative decision will be sent to the Saving Decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e6596	During the debate, Siv Jensen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Cross-Political Elections.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e6925	For the first paragraph, there is a dissenting proposal from the Advance Party, the Right and the Cross-Political People's Election. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the law on changes in the law on real estate, etc. the following amendment is made: the first paragraph of Section 2-9 is replaced by the following:The credit authority may revoke the letters of title if a real estate agent no longer meets the requirements of Section 2-3, first paragraph, paragraph 2. Four and five. ‘... An alternative between the setting of the first paragraph and this proposal will be used first, and then the second paragraph of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e7111	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-02-lower.ana.ud164e7118	The legislative decision will be sent to the Saving Decision.
