ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e18	Honourable co-representatives! Former mayor and governor Petter Verner Furberg is dead, 75 years old. Petter Furberg met as a staging representative for the Workers' Party from 1969 to 1981. Petter Furberg was born in Sande, Westfold, on December 15, 1923. As for so many of his generation, his destiny came to be determined by April 9, 1940. Furberg had then moved to completion of the middle school exam, but the outbreak of war put a temporary stop to further education. He quickly carried out illegal work on some educational tasks at the Horten Marine Station. On Christmas Eve, 1940, he was arrested for his business. After his release, he traveled to Sweden. He had a desire to become a hunter's pilot, but when it did not go, he patterned instead as a sailor on tankers across the Atlantic and the Pacific, since there was a great demand for seafarers. After the war, he engaged in many kinds of organizational activities, singing choirs, sports and later also in the AUF. He took the exam at the ship's telegraph school in 1948. From 1952 until he was elected to the Stortinget he worked at the Marinen Headquarters in Horten. During this period he also had two stays at Jan Mayen, where he first worked as a radio telegraphist and later as manager. Petter Furberg was politically active from the early 1950s. He also served as a member of the Presidency from 1953 to 1971. He was the group leader of the Workers' Party in Horten City and Chairman of the Horten Workers' Party. In the trade movement, he had more jobs, including: as group trustee in Iron and Metal and as group chairperson for technical officials in the same federation. At Stortinget, Furberg was a member of the Agricultural Committee from 1969 to 1973 and a member of the Judicial Committee from 1973 to 1981, during the latter term as Vice-President. In February 1981 he was elected chairman of the Riksrevision and thus resigned from the Stortinget. He was a national auditor – after unanimous re-election – until 1990, when he retired. In the autumn of 1973, he was a delegate to the UN General Assembly. Petter Furberg was a lukewarm and liberal person with great experience in life. Over many years, he played an important role in Norwegian society. He was open, honest and extroverted. At Stortinget he presented his views with mild voice and clear thoughts. In the Justice Committee he defended his liberal views with both mildness and strength. During his time as National Auditor, he continued and reinforced the National Auditor’s international cooperation and was particularly concerned about providing training opportunities for national audit staff in developing countries. Both here at the Stortinget and in the National Auditorate, we will remember Petter Furberg as the good man he was, his judgment, his wisdom and integrity. Former coroner Karl Johan Brommeland is dead, 86 years old. With him, a committed and respected politician and a warm personality have gone away. Karl J. Brommeland was born in Haugesund. After training in commerce he worked several years in the shipping office before he started Brommeland Radio A/S with his brother in 1935. For seven years he was chairman of the Norwegian Radio/TV Dealers Association. Brommeland came early into the work of the Christian People's Party. He was elected to Haugesund City Council in 1948 and was the party's group leader until he was elected as permanent representative on the Stortinget from Rogaland in 1958. At Stortinget, Brommeland immediately identified himself as an avid and ill-advised spokesperson for the industries of the coast. For a period of three years he was a member of the Maritime and Fisheries Committee. Here he addressed important issues related to shipping, fishing and the welfare of seafarers. Brommeland perceived himself as a typical district representative. He would like to raise issues that touched the communities, and he made many friends and tied strong ties all along the coast. Karl J. Brommeland also had a broad social exposure and distinguished himself in the current debate, with a range from foreign policy to church policy. He stressed that the Christian People’s Party should be conscious of the Christian value anchoring of political everyday life. Brommeland was a member of the enlarged Foreign and Constitutional Committee and was twice elected as a member of the United Nations General Assembly. After finishing his career at Stortinget in 1973, he again engaged in local politics, community and organizational work. He made a great effort, not least through his peculiar ability to get in touch with people and actively involve them in tasks. As a sports-interested young man, Brommeland was involved in founding Haugesund swimming club. Until then, he took a breakfast bath in the city swimming pool. Karl J. Brommeland was an honorary member of Haugesund swimming club, Haugesund Christian People's Party and Rogaland Christian People's Party. In 1969 he was awarded the honorary mark of Haugesund City. Former Major Thor Lund is dead, 78 years old. Thor Lund met as permanent staging representative of the Workers' Party from Aust-Agder from 1969 to 1981. Thor Lund was born on 27 May 1921 and originally came from the workers' strike at Lilleaker in Oslo. Already as a youth, he engaged himself politically in the AUF. In 1951, together with his wife Kaspara, he moved to Eydehavn, becoming a mechanic at Nitriden and active both in the trade union, in party work and in municipal and county politics. Thor Lund was a member of the Municipal Council and rapporteur for eight years in the municipality of Moland before being elected to the Stortinget in 1969. From 1983 to 1989 he was once again rapporteur in Moland. Lund had a broad and strong commitment to his political work. As a municipal politician, he played an important role in the development of regional cooperation in East Agder. At Stortinget, Thor Lund was a loyal member of the Workers' Party's big group and highly respected for his efforts in the Social Committee, where he was from 1971 to 1981, a period marked by major changes in both health and social security systems. Social policy, workers' rights, the economy and fair distribution made a strong commitment to him, alongside the fact that the landfill was also a base for caring for the interests of the home state. For everyone in East-Agder who should have solved a problem or received support in a matter in the capital, he became an important contact person. He was a member of the Nordic Council for eight years from 1973 and was very concerned about developing close Nordic cooperation. He was proud of the results achieved in this area, while he was a driver of further politicisation of Nordic cooperation. Like so many other politicians from the Agder region, Thor Lund was involved in power development, and in 1979 he was elected to the Board of Governors of Norway's watercourse and electricity supply. Personally, Thor Lund was a modest man. He did not run into the pulpit in vain. He was more concerned with results than with personal honor. He was cautious in his form, but unusually strong in substance. For his efforts in municipal and national policy, Thor Lund was awarded the honorary prize of the Municipal Councils and the King's medal in gold. We remember Petter Verner Furberg, Karl Johan Brommeland and Thor Lund with deep respect and gratitude and shines peace over their memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e86	Representatives of Aud Blattmann, Svein Ludvigsen, Harald T. Nesvik, Jorunn Ringstad, Ola Røtvej and Åse Wisløff Nilssen apply for leave from 19 October until 12 November – all to attend the 54th ordinary General Assembly of the United Nations in New York. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first representative of the South Trondelag County, Tore Nordseth, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the representative Ola Røtveis leave from 19 October to 12 November for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the West Agder County: Rolf Terje KlunglandFor the Hedmark County: Olav TeppenFor the Moor and Romesdal County: Gerd FlatsetFor the Sogn and Fjordane counties: Håkon GiilFor the Troms County: Elisabeth AspakerFor the South Tribute County: No Balstad3. Olav Teppen, Elisabeth Aspaker and Inga Balstad are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for representatives Åse Wisløff Nilssen, Svein Ludvigsen and Ola Røtvej.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e151	The representative of Morten Lund will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e154	I will be presented with a proposal to ask the Government to assess clarifications in the Law on People's Registration and the Tax Act, so that people with strong access points to the country are subject to tax liability to the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e159	The representative Anders Anundsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e162	On behalf of the biggest representatives of Thore Aksel Nistad and myself, I have the honour to submit proposals to the Government to make the necessary changes so that breakage cars and call-out vehicles are exempted from charging for heavy duty tyres.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e167	The proposals put forward will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e179	This is the last centenary debate in this millennium. It requires that we put our policies into a longer perspective and outline the challenges we face. It may be too ambitious to wear ‘millennium glasses’. However, even in a shorter time perspective, a switch is made by the social change that Norway has undergone. At the turn of the century, Norway was a poor developing country. Apart from Ireland, Norway sent the largest proportion of the population of immigrants to North America — cause: poverty. Today we are one of the richest countries in the world and experience even immigration from poorer parts of the world. Popular solidarity was a pillar in the building of our national welfare society. Today, our efforts for refugees and poor fellow human beings in developing countries and our efforts in international peace and reconciliation work are being called for. The challenge to newly rich Norway is this: do we choose international solidarity, or do we choose to be ourselves enough in our prosperity? The government selects the solidarity line: The State budget presents a plan to step up development aid to 1 pst. of gross national income, and as a first step, it is increased to 0,89 pst. Next year. The government’s debt plan for the poorest and hardest indebted countries places Norway as a priority country. Other countries are now following similar debt cancellation plans. Norway's role as peace brokers in areas such as the Middle East and Guatemala, our participation in peace operations in the Balkans and our leadership mission in the OSCE are full evidence of Norway's demand for international peace and human rights work. The government’s social vision is a Norway that extends a solidarity hand and does not turn its back on the poverty of other countries, the global environmental problems and the fight for peace and human rights. There is a need for Norway — a solid Norway! The Labour Party leader, Thorbjørn Jagland, highlighted yesterday the work to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons as one of the greatest challenges we face. The government shares his commitment. We put the greatest emphasis on the trial discontinuation agreement, which is one of the most important international instruments to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. As you know, Norway has already signed the agreement. On the Norwegian side, we want to do what we can to contribute to the entry into force of the agreement. American ratification is very important in this regard. I want to talk to President Clinton next Friday to support his efforts to get Congress to ratify the agreement. I will also be able to meet representatives of Congress during the visit to Washington and discuss the matter with them. Over a few generations, Norway has gone its way from a traditional peasant society — via the industrial community — to an internationalised knowledge society. The pace of change is increasing in this society, characterised by the rapid development of information and communication technologies and the globalisation of the world economy. We need the will and ability of innovation to keep pace, otherwise we can be losers – both as a nation and as individuals. The government is taking this big challenge seriously. Both society as a whole, the political system, enterprises, local communities and every human being need to be upgraded with the necessary ‘change competence’. We are betting on an innovative Norway, and several strategies will be followed: The Government has launched a systematic reform programme for ‘Simplifying Norway’. We want to remove or simplify rules that business, municipalities and people most experience as bureaucratic barriers to innovation and innovation. Recently, the Government also challenged civil society to participate. Nearly 300 organisations have been asked to record. Industry innovation, not least in District Norway, is promoted by good conditions for new entrants and by strengthening the role of SND. The ability to innovate and start-up new enterprises must be stimulated already in primary school, as is the case with the experience of students in practical trials. In particular, increased investment in research and education are key elements of the Government’s strategy for a more innovative Norway. The Research Communication announces that research efforts over a five-year period will rise to the OECD average level. Progress is already being made. The proposal for a State budget shows the greatest growth in public research appropriations since 1993, with an increase of approximately 650 million. kr in relation to the adopted budget for 1999. There are also proposals for increased efforts in the education sector, and we would like to give parties like the Right and the Left because they each have put educational policy in focus in their own way. In an increasingly changing world, it is crucial, in the government's view, to provide people with security in everyday life – we want a safer Norway. This is the third big challenge I'd like to raise. A good quality of life and a good society require that we develop security at more levels. Let me show you three areas in particular: Security must be created for the sick and the elderly. We are now implementing a comprehensive plan to develop the provision of services in the care of the elderly. The municipalities are building more and more exclusive and hospitalized places. The government has also implemented comprehensive escalation plans for psychiatry, cancer care and investment in new medical devices in hospitals. Overall, the development plans for the care of the elderly and health care are so demanding that there are limits to the expenditure increases for which there is room within a financially sound framework in other areas. Let me nevertheless highlight some important tasks: Greater security must be created for life, health and property through the active fight against crime. The Government’s Action Plan on Security in the Centre has all contributed to positive results in the fight against urban crime. We see signs of a decline in both violent and winning crimes, but it's a long way to go. In the years to come too, the fight against crime must be strengthened. In a changing age, the need for a secure anchoring of values for identity and social belongings in close and warm communities is also increasing, providing support when we are subjected to special pressures in life. The Value Commission shall contribute to a raising of awareness in this respect. The government’s family reforms – not least the cash support – aim to increase parental freedom of choice and to increase the possibility of spending more time on the children in their first year of life. Working families, together with good childcare and school services and meaningful activities in voluntary organisations, contribute to the creation of healthy attitudes, good communities and a safer Norway. So about the political and parliamentary situation: if we are to master the great challenges we face at the dawn of a new century, it requires a willingness to cooperate; no parties alone can solve these tasks. In a situation of minority government — and where the possible alternatives will also be minority governments — the willingness to cooperate is a prerequisite for success, yes, for Norway to succeed. The government meets the Storting with such a will. This applies to the implementation of the contingency plans in the field of health and elderly care, which relate to the work to secure the future of the public interest, and to the work on the forward-looking management of the State's petroleum resources, including the organisation of Statoil and the EEAS, to mention some matters of long-term impact. But this also applies to the work on unbundling the state budget for the next year in port. As in the previous year, the Government first addresses the largest opposition party. In previous budget rounds, the Workers' Party's view of the cash support reform prevented a negotiated solution that way. With the Workers' Party's change of attitude on this point, a new situation and a new opportunity have been created. It's positive. The government is therefore prepared to try out this possibility of negotiation, but the negotiations may become demanding. Only the concrete discussions will show if we succeed. If they don't show up, we're going to have to look for solutions with the games on the right. A solution depends on whether we can take responsibility for the final result. It must mean a responsible budgetary framework, which provides a basis for continued high employment and further interest rate reductions, as well as for priority areas such as the elderly, health, education, the environment, assistance and district policies. The emphasis on fair distribution is placed on the working party. So does the government. And we've addressed this challenge, among other things. in the dithering message. We would also like to discuss further tax measures in this way, but we must not resort to measures that are a serious threat to businesses and jobs. We have to take care of the high level of employment. When I heard opposition leader Thorbjørn Jagland yesterday, there were trends in a description of misery that did not match reality. We have unsolved problems that we're going to do, but we're not allowed to forget: that the Norwegian economy is solid that we have a high level of employment and a low level of unemployment that the Government has presented and endorsed the main health plans in the decades of the Regeringen, among others. through the Equalisation Communication, the growing differences that developed in the 1990s have been addressed The government is also not passive in relation to the threat of unemployment in the shipbuilding and supply industries, on the contrary, we propose, among other things. up to the construction of new research vessels, coastguard vessels and two fast-hauled vessels, and further – in the light of the supplier industry – the facilitation of production and CO2 charges and an adapted training programme for persons on leave. Nor is the government passive to the need for structural changes in the financial market. In the autumn of this year's credit notification, we will facilitate the necessary changes, not just passively accepting concession requests in connection with foreign institutions' purchases. The Government will continue to seek cooperation on a case-by-case basis and from budget to budget with those parties which open up solutions for which the parties can take responsibility. The central government has already achieved significant results in the first two years. But there is more that we will have done, and we want time and opportunities for it in the work of a solidarity, an innovative and safer Norway. I cannot see that other government options today have better control options. The Government will confirm its commitment to continued responsibility and governance, and to constructive cooperation with the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e284	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e287	I agree with the Prime Minister that there has been a new situation, including: because the central parties now want to cooperate with the Workers' Party on the policy of distribution. It could be tempting to move on to it now, but since there has been a rather dramatic situation with regard to the military coup in Pakistan, I would like to make a few comments about it and ask the Prime Minister about it. First, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Prime Minister said something about the probationary agreement and its ratification. If the agreement is not ratified by the Senate, there is a risk of a new nuclear race. There may also be a different nuclear arms race, where despotic regimes and terrorist groups can hold the world hostage by means of nuclear weapons. This issue has become even more topical since the military coup in Pakistan. Pakistan is one of those countries that will be able to launch a new nuclear arms race with India if the test stop agreement is not ratified. This will mean an extremely dangerous development for the whole world. Note that the charges against the appointed Prime Minister are precisely that he has been too mild or too yielding in relation to India in connection with the conflict in Kashmir. We do not have an overview of the situation in the country, but it seems clear that the legally elected government is set aside by military forces. We need to respond to this with the same strength as we did with the military coup in Greece, Chile and many other places. The movement that I represent, the labour movement, must consider launching the same active solidarity work in relation to this that we did in relation to these other military coups. I would like to ask what kind of attitude the Norwegian Government has at this very moment. I am aware that we do not know the situation, but we need to react.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e298	Of course, I agree with the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party that the situation that arose in Pakistan yesterday afternoon is extremely serious. And unfortunately, it's not the first time we've experienced such coups in Pakistan against legally elected governments. So the government will of course react, and react sharply, to what is happening. For us, it is a fundamental principle that countries should be governed by democratically elected parliaments and governments, and not by military regimes, whatever their colour and whatever their country. So there is reason to react in a similar way here as in relation to other countries that have experienced the military coup and the examples of which the representative, Mr Jagland, mentioned. When it comes to cooperation in the Storting on next year's state budget, I remember that in the previous two years we actually tried negotiations with the Workers' Party first. So that's nothing new. But everyone knows why they stranded. This happened because the Workers' Party saw the cash support as an obstacle to a budget solution. Now the Working Party no longer does that. It's new in the situation, which gives an opening and an opportunity that hasn't existed in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e305	The Prime Minister was concerned about the security of everyday life, and also mentioned special security in the everyday life of the elderly. I assume that the Prime Minister agrees that our responsibility is primarily for the elderly who are in need of care. Fortunately, there are many older people who are doing well and who do not have problems, but it is the needy older people we should show a far greater responsibility for. There are now many dramatic differences between municipalities and municipalities over and over again in the quality and scope of care provision for elderly people in need of care. This difference has been persistent for the last 20 years. It depends on which municipality you live in if nursing elderly people receive necessary care because it is a municipal responsibility. So we see that it doesn't work in terms of what should be a principle, that all the caregivers should have the same right to the same offer regardless of their place of residence, as everyone has paid their contributions to the people's rights system. Now there is also Tove Stagnes, Federal Head of Norwegian Health and Social Associations, "few enough", as it said in the Newspaper yesterday. She believes that municipalities should be deprived of responsibility for the elderly, and she says: ‘When older people don’t get the care they need, it may be time to look at some old chefs. Municipal self-government, for example,...» Will the Government now actively consider transferring financial responsibility for the care of elderly people in Norway to the State, and introduce statutory rights for all caregivers to receive the same care provision irrespective of their place of residence?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e319	The Government agrees with the parliamentary leader of the Advance Party that there is still a lot to be done to expand care provision for the elderly, and especially for those in need of care. This is also the reason why an overall increase has adopted a strong plan for the escalation of care for the elderly, which is primarily to ensure the development of nursing homes and the isolation of those who wish to do so and more nursing homes. I have to say that in the middle of such a stepping-up plan, we are going to throw everything on the system, take responsibility from the municipalities and make it state-owned, I have to say that I am very much in doubt. I am not sure that it would be a better solution that the state, with responsibility for the care of the elderly around all over the country, in many hundreds of municipalities, because the development of the care of the elderly also requires, in my view, the best possible local knowledge and knowledge of the specific situation in the municipality in question, which despite all the municipal authorities that are closest to the elderly in the municipality. We are willing to look at reforms that can make the care of the elderly more effective, but we do not believe that such an approach that simply makes care a state responsibility solves the challenges we face. Nor does it do what the Progress Party has been about in other contexts, about a earmarked grant scheme for the development of nursing homes, because it can easily distort the provision of care in one particular direction and away from other care facilities, including: home-based. When do I think the Stortinget will focus on implementing the escalation plan we've adopted, and then we'll see the results of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e328	It seems that the government parties and the Workers' Party are now quite close to agreeing on next year's budget, and I note that the Prime Minister also sees that it has its price. In Bergen’s Official Journal today, he is asked, ‘Are you prepared to disappoint many of your own voters in this new collaboration?’ And he answers, ‘It is not possible to make all the voters ready.’ I think he is quite right in that. He will disappoint quite a number of bourgeois-minded voters. What's special and special about the way the government puts up the budget negotiations is not, of course, talking to the Labour Party first, as the largest party, but just giving the Labour Party the election and the First Court. If the calls lead to agreement, the Government is not interested in investigating other options. That means they have to evaluate and guess what they couldn't do with other parties. Now, basically, my question is, what is the government really expecting that they can't do in cooperation on the right, which they're planning to do in collaboration with the Workers' Party? Is it e.g. The fact that they can't get taxed people even harder than they're doing now? After all, the Labour Party is demanding NOK 2 billion in increased taxes, which comes up to several of the Government's proposals. It concerns, as far as I understand, if, among other things, the electricity charge, regardless of whether it is a minimum pensioner or an exchange broker. I understand that the Prime Minister is concerned that this is going to go down on business, and that is not all the world the government has done in relation to small businesses. And my final question is: does the Prime Minister really think it is possible to hit the owners of the companies without affecting the companies, the employment and the jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e337	It's probably a little too quick to conclude The Right Leader draws when he says it looks like the Government and the Workers' Party are already nearing a solution. After all, negotiations have not started yet, but we have registered that there is a platform and a basis for negotiation. But we haven't hidden in, as I also said in my post, that there will be demanding negotiations, because there are some areas that we are initially looking at differently. This applies, inter alia, to: how to make tax changes in order not to affect businesses and jobs. I don't ignore the fact that within that framework and that consideration, we can find steps that allow us to take something from a part of those who earn the most and who also take it out in consumption – and some of them demonstrate that consumption to the full – without affecting the companies and the capital that works in the companies. And that's an important difference. When Jan Petersen makes it a big question that the Workers' Party somehow gets the first opportunity, it's actually nothing new. They also had that last year and in the previous year. But then the cash support stood in the way that the Workers' Party would be involved in a solution. And it would be quite amazing and illogical when the Workers' Party for the first time says that now it is no longer going to stand in the way, that we should say for the first time that no, we will not negotiate with you – we will skip the Workers' Party this time. It would be quite incomprehensible, and then everyone with a certain right could say that you have never had any interest in finding a solution to the Workers' Party. We see advantages in it, because we think we can achieve a part in terms of distribution, which is more difficult to achieve with the right parts. We can also achieve that the private sector gets to take some of the tightening that we have to do in our economy. After all, the right-wing parties only want it to happen in the public sector, despite the fact that private consumption is increasing more strongly than public consumption. And we can get a better environmental policy, a combination of electricity taxes and increased investment in alternative energy and energy, and tax relief at the bottom. This is a package from the Government that the Working Party now appears to accept. Unfortunately, the right parties have not.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e349	It was a rather strange day yesterday. It was an extremely peaceful magnification that discussed the nobility of the throne, the nobility of the world. 6,000,000 were born, and about at the same time there was a military coup in Pakistan. The latter means a very worrying situation for the world, for that region and for us, because Pakistan and India are in a serious conflict situation around Kashmir, and both countries have access to and possess nuclear weapons. In this situation, Norway also has a special responsibility, because many Norwegians have close ties with Pakistan and are concerned about grandparents, aunts and uncles and other relatives. This means that the Government must react immediately – Bondevik is Prime Minister for them as well. The first thing to do is to give a strong formal Norwegian response and a strong protest. The second thing that has to be done by the Government is to take an initiative on a common western reaction to Pakistan. And in such an initiative, the government must immediately contact the United States, because the United States was under former military regimes in Pakistan their main supporter. In the situation that has now arisen and is dangerous to many, a new military regime in Pakistan must not have allies anywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e356	I agree, as I also said in my reply to Thorbjørn Jagland, with the seriousness of what happened in Pakistan yesterday by the fact that a military regime seems to take over, and especially because of the danger this represents in terms of the use of nuclear weapons. I can therefore assure you that the Government will clearly and unequivocally express its protest against it. I can also assure you that we will make contact with other countries to assess what we can do jointly in this situation. It's quite correct, as SV's leader says, that the U.S. obviously plays a key role here as in many other contexts. It's natural to discuss this with the United States as well. And I'm actually getting a pretty unique opportunity to do it with the president of the country when I'm going to meet him in Washington on Friday. It would be natural for Pakistan, after what happened yesterday, to come as an additional point on the agenda we have already agreed on for our talks. We consider this to be deeply serious, and we will deal with the matter accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e364	The Prime Minister said that the Government has the same objective as the Workers' Party in terms of fair distribution. Then he warned against increasing taxes on businesses. The Labour Party agrees. We are looking to tax those who have had large capital incomes and who, according to the Government's own report on the policy of equalization, have earned a lot on the rise in the 1990s. But it's the government's own tax policy that affects businesses. Thus, there is no willingness to add any tax – at least not in this state budget – to the increased capital income. On the other hand, one is fully willing to add greater taxes to ordinary employees. But what's a business? Well, a company is mostly employees. So increased taxes on employees are really increased taxes on businesses. That's how the system works. We will say no to that, but we want increased taxes for those who have made a big profit in the rise of the 1990s, and that will not affect businesses. Then I would like to ask the Prime Minister something, because the government parties are willing to negotiate with the Workers' Party on the distribution policy, but then you are willing to go to the Right and the Advance Party if it doesn't. The Prime Minister just said in his reply to Jan Petersen that they want to talk to us because they can get things into the distribution policy that they cannot do with the Right and the Advance Party. In negotiations with the Right and the Advance Party, the result will be the very opposite of what can be done with us. Can you explain this logic, that you're willing to go one line first, and then the protruding opposite direction if the first one wasn't going to show up?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e373	The willingness to cooperate/flexibility is not limited to the centre. I remember the leader of the Workers' Party saying what he said at his party's national meeting last year. He was in a given situation willing to cooperate with the Right, and the Right was in a given situation – as they defined as a crisis – willing to cooperate with the Workers' Party. If the centre has the opportunity to cooperate with the right parties, it should probably surprise even more that the Workers' Party actually opened up to it last year. Then the Workers' Party rejected the Government's proposal for increased capital taxation – since Jagland specifically asked about it. We are aware that they did so on the grounds that increased capital taxation also means an increase in the general tax rate from 28 to 29. But it combined the government last year in its proposal with relief at the bottom, so it would have a social profile. 28 pst. is, of course, the general rate of capital taxation. It proposed that the Government increase. The Workers' Party, in partnership with the right parties, went against it. That is why we have seen no reason to repeat that proposal this year, but we are going to be willing to discuss other proposals that may have some of the same effect. It is also interesting to note that LO's leader, who is a member of the Central Government of the Workers Party, has gone even further than the Government did last year in increasing capital taxes. He proposed to increase it from 28 pst. until 30 p.m., but he has obviously not been put through the Central Government of the Workers' Party. This confirms that it is not just the government parties who are willing to cooperate with different parties in Stortinget. In fact, it has been both the Working Party and the Right – even in between. This illustrates some of the situation in Norwegian policy. The centre parties are at the centre of economic policy and have a greater freedom to cooperate on different sides, and that is probably also some of the reason why the centre per. Today is the most manageable option we have in terms of government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e382	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e385	Unfortunately, we are constantly reminded that the world is not as safe and as predictable as we hope, and to believe. During the last year, Norway has been involved in a military conflict in the Balkans, facing significant reconstruction tasks in the same area. We are faced with situations in which both our international solidarity and our ability to support democratic development will come to great test. We are in a situation where we were told yesterday about a military coup in Pakistan, and where the news media could tell that one of the reasons for the military takeover of the democratic civil regime was that the regime had been too indulgent in the conflict with India about Kashmir. We are also in a situation where unfortunately a lot of talk is said that the US Senate will not accept the negotiated probationary agreement. This makes the world a little bit more insecure. The fact that the United States may not accept the test stop agreement – we hope for the longest time that they do not vote it down – while countries with nuclear potential are not under secure democratic rule, may create the greatest international challenges of our time. I'm not saying this in my post because I think there's some big disagreement about this, for example. between the Government and the opposition in the Storting, but I say it because it is such a serious challenge for all of us, that we must use the political forces, the political wisdom and the political climate of cooperation we must have, in order to solve and get Norway's contribution to solving these serious conflicts in the world society. It's a good thing that our domestic problems and challenges get bigger, because they're the ones that hit us and challenge us pretty much. Likewise, I think it is right, as both the leader of the Labour Party and the Prime Minister did in their speeches, to remind you that we are placed first and foremost somewhere in the world, and that we must take responsibility for the challenges there. It is said that there is a new political situation in Stortinget, a new parliamentary situation. That is, as far as I can judge it, both right and wrong. The size has exactly the same composition that it has now had for well two years. There are, in principle, the same opportunities for different cooperative constellations, and there are in principle the same choices for who wants to cooperate with who. But, of course, our all will probably depend on both our judgment and historiography here, both in terms of what triggers cooperation, and in terms of what prevents it. For the Workers' Party, in the situation we have now in Stortinget, it has been very important to listen to the signals coming from the Government itself, that we want an improved policy of distribution, and that representatives of the Government itself say clearly that a better policy of distribution can only be achieved in cooperation between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party. The statements, this new situation, have taken the Workers' Party seriously. As you know, there has been a preliminary meeting between the Labour Party's management and the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and the signals and messages coming from this meeting are that the demands and views of the Labour Party as a prerequisite for such cooperation are a good starting point for further negotiation. I want to say that distribution issues, i.e. who is going to pay to the community to solve the big problems facing the community, are among the most important issues that society can address. We've been through a lot of huge tax reforms. We see that inequalities are spreading in the Norwegian community, but we also see that tax measures are seeking to correct this, for example. by taking from the medium and higher wage incomes, as the Government’s proposal is, probably does not have a high chance of solving the distribution problem. The big difference in Norway today is between those who have their income from wages and salaries and those who have their income from holding gains, from speculation and from other forms where tax adjustment itself can wrest large wealth and large income. If there is to be cooperation on the budget for the harvest, it will be imperative, on the part of the Workers' Party, that some decisive action be taken in this serious imbalance, while at the same time wanting to strengthen the budget on some crucial points. Let me also mention two other elements that lie in the arrangement the Workers' Party has presented to the Government. In two rather complex areas, we have charging systems in Norway that seek to achieve different objectives, except to provide revenue for the national fund. Charges on energy, on electricity, on the one hand, will provide revenues, but on the other hand, also seek to influence behaviour, so that we get a more sensible use of energy in Norwegian society. There is no large measure in itself that households are to be charged with greatly increased expenditure. The goal is to make sure that households can get a reasonable incentive to housekeepers with the energy, so that the quality does not go beyond what we have to try to solve. From the Labour Party's point of view, we think it's worth looking at whether a two-price system can solve the big challenge in a better way. In another area, namely alcohol policy, we are faced with a tax regime that everyone now sees as creating significant problems. From my geographical point of view, I know it quite strongly in relation to the border trade challenge, where alcohol as a significant bait significantly attracts the turnover we had hoped to keep domestically, across the border. It's a significant challenge in itself. The same is true of the availability of illicitly obtained or produced alcoholic beverages. We agree on our alcohol policy objectives. However, when it comes to legal action in relation to both legitimacy and the tax regime, we believe from the Labour Party that there can be a question mark about the actual proceeds as so much of the turnover is either across the border or along illegal channels, and that it is time to take a decisive step also in terms of the tax regime and the availability of alcoholic beverages. It is important for border trade, it is important for Norwegian legislation to feel legal, it is important to analyse the tax regime based on proceeds, and we expect that this work now needs to start immediately, so that we may have a new system to stick to here within the revised national budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e408	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e411	The representative of Thoresen is talking about Difference Norway, and there are differences in this country that we politicians should take on board. And then I'm going to label it as, at least, the most serious difference: there's the difference in the supply of nursing elderly people in this country, depending on where they live, and depending on the municipal economy. The progress party has claimed for a long time that if we change the system, we can do something about this. If we let the state take over the financial responsibility, the financial responsibility for these services, and the municipalities only get the performing part of the work, then a few equal offers for all caregivers in Norway without regard to where they live, and without regard to their local authorities' finances. This was probably also highlighted in today's VG, where they are. argues that the right way might be to go to the step that the state is given financial responsibility, and that one in this way is given a level playing field. It should be a self-evident thing that all the nursing elderly in this country get a equal offer without regard to where they live, and without regard for the individual municipality's economy. Will the Labour Party in the negotiations with the Government that they are now entering into on the next year's government budget work for such an arrangement?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e420	We have a system of municipal autonomy. We have a system in which we want the local challenges to be met with the knowledge that exists around the country's local government. We know that there are inequalities, we know that there are different standards in primary school, and we know that there are different standards in nursing homes and in nursing care. But if all this were to be centralized, we are far from sure that we had received a local adaptation to the local needs that exist. In my opinion, the seventh and last thing about this is in what economic condition municipalities are to solve the major challenges with the local adaptations that need to be there. Here it is the unbundled resources of the municipalities that determine the municipal priorities, that is, what has not been earmarked in advance for one purpose or another. That is why, among the Labour Party's demands to the Government in the negotiations we are about to enter into, there is a proposal to strengthen the free resources of municipalities by NOK 1 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e425	The representative Thoresen has been one of the best and most capable defenders of the so-called 36.9 strategy. But today, the representative of Thoresen defended a story written by Thorbjørn Jagland both yesterday and today, and also Syliva Brustad last night, for which the centre has changed its strategy, and this needs to be clarified further. I myself explained very well on 24 October 1997 why it was impossible to negotiate with the government parties. He said that: “We cannot participate in anything we are completely against and as we said in the election campaign that we are against. There, the Government must find solutions together with the parties that are in favour of the Government.» ... ‘The Advance Party and the Right agree with the new government’s provision for cash support, which is reserved for some individual families with children.’ The representative of Thoresen can certainly explain in more detail whether it is the Workers' Party or the Centre that has changed its strategy. So we were told yesterday that in the past, the center parties were opposed to equalizing differences between rich and poor, but now we had suddenly signaled that we're too. At the same time, the Prime Minister here recalled that the Workers' Party, together with the Right, voted against changing the tax rate from 28 pst. until 29 pst. I must first ask the representative Thoresen: why did the Workers' Party vote against such a proposal by the Government as late as last autumn? And secondly, I have to ask the representative of Thoresen to document more closely when the centre parties change strategy. When did the centre parties say they were interested in balancing the differences between the rich and the poor, which they should not have been before?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e441	I don't know if this should develop into a competition in history writing, but the Labour Party's government went off after the previous elections, not only because the political composition was such in the Stortinget that there were too poor opportunities to get an impact on the Labour Party's policy, but also because all the other political parties had declared the objectives of bringing an alternative to the Labour Party's policy. So the government cooperates two fiscal years in a row with the Right and the Advance Party. So it's sending out a message of outburst to the Stortinget, and members of the Government and representatives of the government parties themselves say that if we're going to move on in the policy of distribution, in the cohesion policy, there's a cooperation between the centre and the Workers' Party that needs to be done. I perceive it as powerful signals and as new signals. But of course this may be because I have not heard well enough after the accomplices on previous occasions. In any case, I see it as a clear invitation to the Workers' Party to cooperate in an important economic field, perhaps the most important economic field we are facing, as you realize that this problem cannot be solved together with the right forces of politics and mass destruction. This cooperation climate – the fact that the Government is asking the Workers' Party for cooperation, and that the Workers' Party is saying that yes, under certain conditions we can set up – is what is important in the new situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e451	Replica with Labour Party parliamentary vice-president Tom Thoresen often becomes historical manuscripts, bordering on state science. The representative is best at war and peace. I refer here to the first part of the article. The new thesis, on the other hand, that it was something new that opposition parties in elections like to have the ambition to form a government alternative to a sitting party, is not new. But if it's in itself so fear-provoking that it makes the Workers' Party go off, it's probably something new. But I'm registering the thesis, and we're going to take note of it behind the ear. I guess 36.9 is going to be a more permanent thesis than many people had feared or hoped. There was another part of the post I wanted to grab hold of. When the representative, who often holds timeless historical posts, also becomes without time anchor in the mention of current problems, I react. Because when the representative refers to the problems of border trade as if it is time to take a ‘grip’, what time is it when he is talking about? I remember representatives of the same party saying the same thing about the alcohol charges last year. During the examination of the revised national budget, we invited the Labour Party to reduce the fees. Then there was no settlement, and it was possible for the Workers' Party to do so. But then they said it wasn't about time in the middle of the year, but towards the end of the year. Now we're at the end of the year. Now we are facing a new budget. I then record that the Workers' Party's claim to the Government is that they should not reduce these fees in the budget for the year 2000, but come back to it in the revised national budget – that is, just at the time when the Workers' Party said in the current year that it was not possible to do so by means of the revised national budget, because it had to be done when dealing with an ordinary budget. I'm just inviting the representative to elaborate a little bit about the term 'time'.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e460	I have the experience with Per-Kristian Foss' loveliness that the balance between compliment and sarcasm is sometimes so delicate that I sometimes have a little difficulty dealing with it correctly. The new thing in the situation, which maybe Per-Kristian Foss doesn't like, but as I think is interesting, is that the government itself is asking for help to improve the Norwegian distribution policy, and that the government itself clearly sees that it can't happen in cooperation with the two right parties in the Stortinget. I guess it's also quite timeless in the sense that in the distribution policy, where we're going to take the real distribution handles, I don't know either – and Per-Kristian Foss excuses me that I'm falling back on history here too – some examples that the Right has gone ahead. And that's what's our biggest economic challenge in the situation we're facing right now. The Workers' Party chooses to take the Government seriously when the Government itself says it wants a better distribution. The Workers' Party has many good proposals and some important demands. It is on the basis that we are now going to try to get there – this year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e470	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e473	In a throne debate, it's often the way to spend a lot of time talking visionary about the future. A lot of nice words are used about where to go and the challenges facing Norway in the future. I think in such a debate it is quite important also to stop and look at what is actually everyday. Because if we can't solve everyday challenges, how are we going to be able to solve the bigger challenges of the future? There's actually good reason to stay with some of these so-called everyday problems and look at the lack of solutions. What may have upset me most in the last few weeks are these grotesque revelations of what can happen to Norwegian immigrant girls in the context of forced marriage. It is rare that something has gone to those degrees on me as a TV show about it. And when you try to put the spotlight on the problem, and not least how we're going to solve it, I have so far found that the government has said that yes, we've made an action plan – as if it were good enough! And so the government says at the same time that it is very concerned about preserving the culture that lies, for example. within this. I'm not calling this culture. I call it a gross violation of the rights of individuals. That means you have to resort to harder tilt to get a solution to such a serious problem. What has been raised above any doubt is that it is fear—these girls are terrified. If they don't have a certainty not only that the judiciary is handling their affairs well enough, but also that there is a safety net around them that fits and catches them up, these girls won't stand up and help solve this problem, because fear gets too strong. In England, attempts were made to deal with this. One softened up in the case law and really went after and punished parents like the coercive poison away their daughters. But because the safety net for the girls was not done at the same time, the consequence of it became a massive flowering of torpedo activities, which, in turn, left the fear of the girls, and the solutions were lacking. I think this is serious. At the start of yesterday's debate yesterday, the parliamentary leader of the Progressive Party made some proposals in this context, and I hope that they will be accepted. Now we have to make sure that these grips are taken, so that Norwegian immigrant girls can be sure that they avoid the kind of gross overtramp that these people have had to live with. But the consequence of this is once again the prevalence of organised crime. It's also a concern that we have to take seriously into the future. We're so naive. We've lived in a nation that's been so free of these kinds of issues over a very long time, but other countries have a long experience of meeting organized crime. If we do not take a firm stand soon, the use of tools is changing and is so hard on this that it is not allowed to develop, I am afraid that in a few years' time we will be faced with a situation in which we do not have control at all, which in fact also leads to politicians being afraid to take on the facts, because the threats of illegal action can become greater. But there are other things, which are less serious in and of themselves, but which characterize our everyday life all the time. I have listened with interest to part of the debate relating to taxes, taxes and how we should be structured. One can sometimes get the impression, especially when one listens to the Workers' Party, that the concept of 'distribution policy' is an expression on which the left side of Norwegian policy has a monopoly. Not only do they have a monopoly on the concept, but they also have a monopoly on the solutions. In other words, it's kind of the left-hand side and maybe the center that's the parts of this house that think about those who are worse than those who are better off. But it's not like that! The entire size is actually concerned about finding solutions to distribution issues. But the question is, how are we going to do that? I don't think we're going to solve this question through a stronger focus on this so-called envy strategy that you use in the tax debate, i.e. you have so much to contribute more. We must be quite aware that when we discuss aggravations in capital taxation, there will be consequences for the will of the capital owners and the desire to invest in Norwegian jobs, to create greater values for this nation. Yes, it has consequences for all the entrepreneurs around the whole country who want to create new businesses, but who face a public bureaucracy and a tax will from the political system that does not exactly stimulate the desire to start that kind of activity. At the same time, especially when you sit and listen to the Minister of Finance, you can get the impression that this nation is poor, that we don't have money, and that the only solution to finance all our well-being is to increase taxes and taxes. We're one of the richest countries in the world, we've never had more money, but the solutions are always more taxes, more taxes. In fact, you can begin to wonder if the word «tax» will soon become a foreign word. It means making everyday life easier for people. Why don't you talk at a time when it's become so popular to talk about freedom of choice, about the real freedom of choice, that is, the economic freedom of choice, which means that each of us, whether we're individuals or business leaders and business managers, actually have to be able to control and control more of our own income? It should not be such that the State should always control us through an ever-increasing tax burden. Another paradox is that at a time when the government talks a lot about innovative Norway, about the need to bet on growth in jobs in districts, there is also much talk about the need to have a mobile workforce, so that people can move faster, and that they might have to commute more. At the same time, the government says that it is important to maintain housing in the districts, but then they come with a government budget where, as it were, there is no investment in road construction at all, and where the taxes on car use increase even more. This will not lead to the creation of jobs in the districts being profitable, as proximity to markets is foreign words up there. It's long, and they're dependent on good infrastructure connections to get their goods transported to the markets. That means road construction, and that also means if we're going to be able to maintain a scattered settlement, that people are going to afford to drive a car. But this is a nice tax item, where we can't wait to introduce new taxes or increase them already in place to bring in even a little more money! The motivation here is not the environment. The motivation is that we need more money into the treasury, and that is in the context of all the debate on taxes and taxes taking place today. I think it's wrong. So another important question -- retirement. After the last count, I found that there were now 10 investigations related to pension schemes, pension schemes and development. When has someone planned to attach the grip so that we can have a total pension debate and see both the population and the private pension system in the context? Instead, we are on a rather poor path, where there are different committees to deal with the issues, and they are not dealt with collectively, but scattered. But it's the whole connection to the future pension system that will be the real challenge for us, how we're going to finance it, and who's going to be responsible. Should it be just the state, or should it be a mixture of state and private? Where are the limits going? There are a lot of unresolved issues that have not even been investigated in all these ten investigations, because the mandates given have been too narrow. These are actually everyday problems that mean a lot to us into a new century. If we haven't solved them, we don't have to throw around with big and fine words about welfare policy and distribution policy and knowledge-based economy, because no one will believe in us as long as we can't solve the most elementary problems.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e496	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e499	It was in such a way sympathetic by the representative Siv Jensen that she chose to talk about the policy of the Progress Party. She is the first Progress Party representative in this debate to do so. Otherwise it is largely the Labour Party that has been in focus when the Progress Party has spoken in this debate. Siv Jensen talked about that always when we were going to do some grip, we were trying to increase taxes, increase taxes, etc. What I think she's forgetting is that the taxes, the income that the government gets into, basically go to sensible things. They go largely to things that people want more from. If we do a survey out in the municipalities, out there among people, and ask, if you want better or worse school-time arrangements, you'll have better or worse kindergartens, you'll have better or worse schools, they'll answer: we want better, we want more of this. That's what the tax money goes to, that's what we're doing here. The Progress Party also wants to increase some expenditure. Siv Jensen talks about the Progress Party, for example. want to bet more on the road. Yeah, but that money has to come from somewhere, too. They do not get out of the loose air – by themselves – without dragging them in, some through taxes and some through taxes. And then we kind of have the main difference between the Progress Party and us that's on the left hand side: it's not just about tax will here, it's also about tax ability. We have to have a principle that is based on the fact that those who serve the most, those who have the most, have to do something more, so that we can get some balance, and that we can have a guarantee that everyone gets the offers that they're entitled to. Our principle is that those who have the strongest back should carry the heavier weight. My impression is that the Advance Party has completely turned this on its head and wants to put the backpack and the frame over to those who already have it. I think that's unsocial. You can't base a welfare system, whether you spend your money on roads or on schools, that it's those who have the lowest income, those who have the weakest back, who have to bear this burden.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e510	The replicator is completely wrong. If you go out and ask people today what their tax money is spent on, they say, "I don't know! And if it were serious that tax revenue was really going to go for their intended purposes, then they would have been earmarked. Then I think it would have been an interesting debate. Are you willing to pay more taxes, Mrs. Hansen, if you're sure you get a quality old age in a nursing home? Are you willing to pay more taxes if you know that your money is going to strengthen Norwegian hospitals? The point is that we have no guarantee of that, because the taxes come in, and then we sit here and distribute them out again at our discretion. And no one should come and tell me that all our tax revenue goes to sensible things, as the representative claimed. They are spent on a lot of things that it is not a public responsibility to finance at all. There is once again the reason that the public sector is inflated more and more, is growing and is no longer in control of its expenditure. Had it now been possible to have a debate on how we should be able to improve the efficiency of the public sector! How are we going to be able to get it smaller, more efficient and use the tax credits for the benefit of all the inhabitants of this nation? We never have that perspective. We never have a perspective on how to get the most out of the tax dollars, because it's kind of not our money, and then it's good to spend them – fast too. So to this with tax ability and equalization. The word balance is probably good and good, but it can be replaced very quickly by the word emigration. Because at a time when the economy is becoming more and more global, when capital doesn't know national boundaries and where it's being moved where it does the most, it's kind of naive to think that not even Norwegian capital is moving out unless we have a tax regime that makes it attractive to keep the capital here. That's the discussion we need.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e519	As expected, Siv Jensen focused its contribution on fiscal policy and economic policy. First, I want to say that I share her concern with immigrant women. The commitment that she showed, I think most parts. That's a strong impression. What I'm very uncertain about, on the other hand, is whether the Progress Party has the right answers and the right tools for solving such a problem. It said, as far as I could register, Siv Jensen very little about his post. During the election campaign, there was a very strong focus on school and education. Everyone wanted to raise this to a significantly higher level, and the promises were on that occasion very many. The Christian People's Party and the centre parties were the nooks in relation to that issue, but of course agreed that school and education were a field of activity in which we would like to participate, which the budget for the year 2000 also bears the mark. At the same time, we said that we feel a great responsibility for continuing the already adopted reforms and seeing new initiatives in relation to the reforms that have been adopted and the overall budgetary situation that we have. This has been followed up by the Government in areas where the Progress Party is most concerned, namely health, the elderly and also the justice sector. And we have, and it cannot, Siv Jensen running from, a historical commitment in these areas both in the previous budget and in the proposal underpinning the budget for the year 2000. This budget, where the Government has invested so heavily in the main areas of the Progress Party, defines Siv Jensen as a gray and unprofiled budget. My question to Siv Jensen is this: what is it that the budget should lose some of this gray tone and get a color? I'm not going to ask which, it says in a way itself, but what happens when the big bet on the main areas of the Progress Party is unprofiled?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e530	It is not even true that the budget that has been presented has some such strong areas of activity. The reality of this budget is that the decisions taken by the Storting are largely followed up. A number of decisions taken by the Storting have been followed up on older people’s notifications and plans for older people. That means that the government has become to a much greater extent an administrative government that does not itself take any action in relation to where it wants to. The only thing that it does is to come up with nice words that don't lead us anywhere. Then you talk about the Christian People's Party being the nocturnal party in the election campaign and not bringing so many election vows. At least I remember one that the Prime Minister came with me. He promised on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Government that he would now reduce the document fee on housing, especially for young people, so that it would be easier to obtain shelter. There's not a word on it in the budget! On the other hand, a different grip was made. Housing taxes were increased to make it even more difficult. It's a breach of promise. It has nothing to do with being sober in a campaign, it has to do with not keeping words. Ramm was uncertain whether the Progress Party was putting the solutions to the challenges we are facing with regard to these immigrant women. He probably said it almost in a slightly demeaning way, as if we weren't going to have a real and deep concern for this, but we do. The fact of such a case is that this is being deliberately speculated in terms of residence permits, residence and visas to Norway. If we put a restrictive bomb on it by demanding that you actually get on your own to get here, we'll at the same time take the bottom out of very, very much of the speculation that's in it, and help protect these girls from being coerced.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e541	Human vision and values were an important part of our electoral campaign, including the showing of hearts to our new countrymen. That is why I agree with the representative, Siv Jensen, that what we have seen revealed about coercion in recent times is really frightening. There's also Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum going out and taking the sharpest distance from, and there's no coverage for this in religion either. But if you want to achieve something about ending coercion, I think it's necessary to build a bridge, to enter into dialogue, not to separate and not to stigmatise. There's a common problem. Many of us spent quite a lot of time on this in the election campaign, meeting new challenges, among other things. in immigration policy, by building bridges, creating an open and inclusive society. Not everyone contributed to this. Among other things, we had the speakers Hedstrøm and Kleppe. They don't think I was among those who contributed. At that point, Siv Jensen also agreed to the election campaign. She went out to her fatherland friend and said that Kleppe too often characterizes immigrant groups and individuals in a negative direction. ‘His loss ratio should have been exhausted soon,’ said Siv Jensen. Yesterday, Carl I. Hagen said in his reply that Hedstrøm and Kleppe had not said anything wrong in the election campaign. I note that it is Hagen who is speaking on behalf of the party, by the company, but I would like to ask the representative Jensen the following question, and then I hope to get an answer to it: When she pointed out that Hedstrom and Kleppe had used up the loss quota, what was it really she referred to as Hagen has not seen?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e552	One of the most costly things about the political debate on Norwegian immigration and asylum policy is not that all parties stand up in an electoral campaign or on any occasion and present their views on how they want to combat various problems, or what solutions they have to deal with the issues. No, there's been a debate in Norway where there's a Norway Championship to get away from the Progress Party. It's about who's the best at taking a distance, who's the best at remembering quotes or twisting about on quotes, instead of in a way of bringing Right solutions to the problem, which Børge Burnde didn't comment on at all. It was the election campaign, all the way. That's the way it's been in the past, and that's probably how it's going to continue to be. But it does not deserve that debate. In fact, such an important debate as Norwegian immigration and asylum policy deserves all parties to launch their solutions, and the voters can decide on them based on it. In our immigration policy, we have nothing to be ashamed of. We have made it crystal clear for many years what consequences different naïve attitudes from Norwegian authorities can have. Now we actually see some of them already, just in the debate on coercion, because we're too naive. We let things happen, but it has nothing to do with us having a different view of humanity or other values when it comes to immigrants. Of course, we want all immigrants legally residing in Norway to have a good life here. What we have criticised all along is the inability of the authorities to set limits on where this policy is going. I think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e559	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e562	Siv Jensen spent a lot of time in his last post saying that everyone is taking a break from the Advance Party, and that it is happening in all election campaigns. I do not know which election matches Siv Jensen has been present at, but the new thing about this election campaign that we just put behind us was not that everyone took a distance from the Progress Party, but that the Progress Party took a distance from itself. We allowed ourselves to praise a statement by Vice-Chairman Siv Jensen of the Progress Party, where she distanced herself from the party's most prominent, at least most prominent, representatives of immigration policy. That rose was meant to be honest. She would stand up, and I also think there is reason to say that she was brave as after the punishment of Carl I. Hagen maintains her criticism of Kleppe, cf. The Friend of the Fatherland on Monday 9 August. This is a step in the right direction. If more people follow Siv Jensen, the Norwegian immigration debate might get into a slightly better track. I want to return to the main post of Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik, where he uses as a reason that the government parties are now going to the Workers' Party, that it is pure technology. You've always gone first to the Workers' Party. This is an interesting reasoning, because the government has presented itself as a block-independent. But such a government is not block-independent. The Prime Minister's reasoning shows a Labour Party-dependent government, for what is he saying? Well, we always go first to the Labour Party, and if they answer yes, there will be negotiations with them, but because they have so far replied no, we have gone to the Right and the Advance Party. So – you just go to the Right and the Advance Party because the Labour Party answers no, not because it is a political priority. There is no independent government. It is a government that has made itself dependent on the party it set as its prime goal to throw away the government taboos. Get it, whoever wants it. I think many bourgeois voters have trouble understanding such reasoning, because there is no policy in it. In some areas, it is actually natural to want to go to the Right and the Advance Party, because one feels a kind of non-socialistic belonging to these parties. But it's not like that – again, according to the Prime Minister. It seems that the reason why you now go to the Workers' Party is a kind of technical result of an old habit, that is, of habit. Before the budget came, I heard, among other things: The leader of the Left, Minister of Industry Sponheim, then referred to the unpublished budget as a budget that was well adapted to cooperation with the Workers' Party. I have also heard the leader of the Christian People's Party, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, on several occasions, say that this time you want to negotiate with and get solutions with the Workers' Party. Then it becomes more of a habit and a technique. I also hear that on several occasions it has been justified to go to the Workers' Party and that the distribution policy has become so important. There are two things to say about distribution policy: it is very good in the government's own notice of this, especially in the department's part, which deals with statistics and actual conditions. But the story also tells us a lot. Johan J. Jakobsen told a part of the story yesterday. It was correct. He said — and it is also stated in the Cohesion Communication — that differences have evolved most strongly in the 1990s, but that they have decreased slightly in the last two years. It is an interesting political story, because it is precisely in the 1990s that the Workers' Party has ruled with the support of the centre parties. So the party that has been sitting and ruling in those years has evolved most strongly is the party that you're now going to cooperate with to reduce the differences. It's not a glare logical reasoning either. I think many bourgeois voters, who have historical knowledge – at least back to the 1980s – will wonder. For the representative Bondevik, the current Prime Minister, has also on several occasions stood on this pulpit and said that in the 1980s, when he himself was in government under the leadership of Prime Minister Kåre Willoch, the differences in Norway actually became smaller. It shows, among other things: the Agency's living conditions surveys. The representative, Mr. Bondevik, has boasted of this on several occasions. But those parties he then cooperated with on such a successful policy, he now sees it as an impossibility to cooperate with to re-establish such a successful policy. At one point, I think the voters say, "I hear what you're saying, but I don't understand where you're going." So politics becomes a game where cooperation and constellations are independent of the content of politics. Sometimes one goes so far as to say that this leads to political contempt. You could say that there's also an element of electoral contempt in it. But on the part of the voters, this leads to some sort of passivity that I think you have to be very careful with. Then to the substance of the matter. If balancing and differences are found in St.meld. No 50 for 1998-99 ‘they greatly increase the differences in income during the period due to increases in share exchange and realisable gains. If both stock exchanges and realisable gains are excluded, there has been no increase in the income gap from 1991 to 1996.» Then I have to remind you that increased share gains were a lost and wanted result of the 1992 tax reform. The Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party were among the settlement parties behind the tax reform. I put emphasis on what Jens Stoltenberg said in his post yesterday: ‘Without reform, the actual tax on capital would be lower and the inequalities... increased.’ Thus, tax reform is not the cause of this. Tax reform has increased yields. The fact that dividends have increased is a result of two things: the tax reform and — as can be seen from the government’s communication — the economic recovery since 1993. So it's a desired development. Why is increasing dividends a desired result of the tax reform? Well, because unlocking the results of the economic upturn as capital in companies without getting the capital moving – now I'm talking mostly about relationships within the country – doesn't mean there's money to start new businesses. We all agreed in 1992 that we had to have more capital on the move, for the capital that is a gain or dividends does not remain in pockets. It is used in new enterprises, new businesses, and Norway needs more of it. We're a small country, and we also need to move capital within our borders. So I ask the question back: what's in this reasoning that has changed since 1992? Is there anything else you mean? If you do, you should be aware that that means that you're more dependent on foreign capital. It's not in itself a danger, but it can be too much of it. It must be a mixture of foreign and Norwegian capital, but it must not be unilateral. I believe that we now need to stimulate Norwegian ownership, not through rules, restrictions, bans and detailed involvement by politicians, but through incentives. I think a lot can be done to smooth out inequalities, and that we have a lot to do. We have negotiations with the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, for example. tried to reduce taxes on those with the lowest and medium income. We managed to get the zero out of the tax increases, which would increase the differences, but we didn't succeed in getting so far that we could raise the lowest ones. I ask the representatives of these parties the question: why didn't they join this at the time? Why weren't they busy last year doing something for them with the lowest and middle incomes? In fact, I believe that it is possible for a rich country to pursue a good distribution policy without tax increases. When it is possible for Sweden, which has much greater economic problems, to make real tax reliefs — where there are also redistributions within the framework, but in reality and overall, tax relief — it is also possible for several richer Norway. What is social-democratic good and, to put it bluntly, what is social-democraticly accepted in Sweden is that the centre is shooting it in Norway. Here, there is something about the differences in policy that are not entirely correct. We can do more to distribute capital income, but then we would. Norway has a high degree of concentration of capital in few hands. We can do something about this by stimulating widespread ownership, more private pension saving, more private capital formation and stronger incentives for, for example: that employees themselves can go ahead and benefit from the purchase of shares in their own enterprise – just to mention one of several examples.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e595	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e598	First, I would like to commend Right for their real commitment to immigration policy, also in relation to the Progress Party. I think political Norway needs more people on it, so I'm actually going to praise them for that. I don't know how easy it is to get involved in that debate between the Right and the Center Party. I believe that Per-Kristian Foss here feels like a humiliated freer, that he actually wanted to be involved in negotiations with the government party, but feels that they have shown him a cold shoulder – at least to now. But it's quite right what many have been in the debate on the throne, which Per-Cristian Foss also brought up now, that there are great inequalities in our society. From the Labour Party's side, we actually think that we have to take a lift to do something for those who have the least: Those who really have little to live with need more. And that means that those who have a lot have to spend more on the community. It is also true that differences have been greater in the 1980s. And that was one of the reasons why the Labour Party couldn't sit with the government anymore, because in each budget one made it easier for those who had more, and heavier for those who had little. There was no better tax policy. Even if there is a lot of money there, it is not just tax policy that is involved and increases inequality in society. Now we have a situation in the municipalities where one would like to be unable to live up to the promises that one has given in the major reforms, because one gets too little in the free income. Fewer kindergartens are built than ever, the school - leisure system is so expensive that many take their kids out. What will Right do to make it better for those in need of these municipal services when it comes to the kindergarten sector, the school leisure system and the school system? Overall, the distribution policy goes beyond taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e611	The representative thought we were squandered freers. No, I'll say we're totally professional freers. We've been at peace in all directions in this period, and I must say we've done well. On several occasions, we have voted down the Government so that it loses, with the proposal to the Workers' Party when there has been a political basis for it, and no one has achieved as much in this period as we have. It is perhaps more the result of this successful freeing business that gets the government parties on the move, if one were to allow themselves to launch theories that they themselves have not been involved in. So to the question of education policy. Let's stick to what's actually in the message. There is nothing to say that the school leisure system causes differences in society. Should we first go into the field of education, I believe that there is rather a lack of education, a lack of quality and perhaps a lack of capacity that is a cause of differences. There's a reason to take it seriously. That's why we in the Right now focus on a training effort, because we know that we can't invest in education across the whole field, give everyone equal opportunities, good opportunities and follow-up opportunities, yes, we create differences. Many people do believe that these differences in the ability to master knowledge and competence are the major problems of the future, more than the economic differences. The financial differences will also be there, and there are two differences that the notification points to: those who are out of work and those who work. Those who fall out of the labour market are a major problem, the second is capital income. The problem there are many ways to get answers to the following questions: How does the Workers' Party believe that capital should actually be hit by higher taxation, without going beyond the enterprises owned by the capital? It's a mystery. We haven't been close to solving that problem. And in all the countries where social democrats have some degree of government experience in recent times, in Germany, in the United Kingdom and in France, they do not do what the Labour Party in Norway does, they do the opposite: they actually give relief in the tax on capital.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e620	The representative Foss and Right are constantly swinging to large heights in terms of reductions in taxes and taxes. Of course, the Progress Party agrees to reduce the tax on ordinary people and thus increase the purchasing power of ordinary citizens without having to walk the road to normal pay demands. Reducing the level of charges will have the same effect as keeping inflation at a still low level. But there are a lot of ways to charge taxes and taxes, and it's a shame that the Right doesn't always listen to what Per-Kristian Foss says. For example, the Right in Oslo has gone in order to impose a charge on the use of heavy duty tyres, but there are still many people who believe that the safest way of transporting a car in winter is to use heavy duty tyres. Nor does the right have any difficulty in introducing tolls on the E18 through Vestfold, although both the Right and the others in this room know that the drivers already pay between three and four times more to the State in taxes and charges than they get back in terms of road development. In Kristiansand, for a long time, the Right has supported the property tax. For me it may therefore seem as if there is a long way between life and learning in the Right. My question to the representative Foss must therefore be: is what Foss says, which is Right Policy, or is Right Policy expressed in the form that the Right actually does around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e636	It was very shocking to hear this, that the whole Right doesn't always follow me. It's really set track, so I don't know if I'm completely coming. To put it that way, when we don't achieve adequate road allocations, among other things. to Eastfold and Westfold, I think that both the business community in Eastfold and Westfold and most people, ‘common people’, as was said here, prefer to pay for the road through tolls — not for all other purposes, but for the road — rather than waiting for 10 or 20 years for a road. But I disagree – and I think the Progress Party also disagrees – that we should use tolls to finance something other than road purposes. That's where we've been. And that's why I'm actually very disappointed that, during the negotiations last year, when we wanted to bet on roads, we didn't get a bunch of support from the Progress Party. We added a billion more to our alternative budget to the negotiations with the government parties in road investments. The Progress Party failed. So I want the representative Anundsen to be happy now in the autumn and in the future to get the Progress Party in line with us in terms of road investments. Because it's a very sensible thing to think about long-term and think about structure for the country. The representative talks about taxes on ‘common people’. I'm a little scared when the Progress Party uses such a term, because I'm not sure if they know the population well enough. In fact, I believe that the important thing is to bring down the level of taxation overall, including for ordinary people. In fact, in the concept of ordinary people, I also include enterprises, small businesses in particular, where it is important to bring the tax down. So I guess it was a very extended ‘common people’ concept that the Progress Party now used, which might also cover more than they usually talk about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e645	It was the former Prime Minister Jan P. Syse who said that the best sides of the Right come out in cooperation with the Christian People's Party. In fact, I think he also meant the other way around, and perhaps he was thinking in particular about the positive experiences he had with government cooperation, among other things. Christian People's Party. We are also pleased to cooperate with the Right in key budgetary negotiations and matters of family policy, industrial policy, school policy, colleges and the school's value base. So the Right is stated and disappointed that we are applying for cooperation with the Workers' Party, as it has been repeated so many times now, as we did last year, and as we did in the previous year. There's no way that the grass is so much greener on the right-hand side of the fence. And we were sincerely disappointed and stated that the Right prioritises further tax relief at the expense of key policy areas and needs of society, as they did in the consideration of the revised national budget, where they went all over the world with a number of ‘less priority areas’. And if you go into that list there and look at what the Right opinion means is "less priority" problems, it's among other things. the following: cut in aid, cut in allocations to UN organisations, cut in adoption aid, cut in drug prevention and curative measures, cut in allocations to Sameting, in grants for housing, etc. The result of the tax regime with the Right for the current year required us to reverse the distribution profile that provided tax increases for the high income groups and reliefs for the low income groups. It is such that alternating cooperation is not a wing, but an expression that the central policy is placed both to the left and to the right for us. And we're looking for opportunities to achieve both.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e654	The representative gets to excuse me, but I don't know if I took the point completely, that center policy was both- and at all times. I think I think the definition Steensnæs had two years ago of the central profile in the budget was better. He said it's impossible to define and calculate. I kind of think that's more accurate. To see some ideological centre courses in economic policy, there is no one — even scientists — who has been looking for a long time with magnifying glass that has been able to define. I do not know where an economic centre policy is in Europe – perhaps in France, where the socialist government, with communist elements, promised to socialize before the elections, and now privatises more than any previous bourgeois government has done. It's kind of a boat and so is it. It's going well for the government in France, so maybe there's something in it. But that doesn't give you a line and a course, and to say that: I realize that when you're giving priority to public budgets, you have to cut down on areas that are well-founded, but that's not a high priority. And a little bit of the problem with the collaboration with the Christian People's Party – you have to be so sincere – is that everything is highly prioritised at all times. It is probably also a problem for a finance minister, I think, to deal with such priorities, or a lack of priorities. However, if you want to create a society where there is room for a private sector, a society where there is also room for a high-growth business, for small and medium-sized enterprises, for family-run enterprises – and now I describe Western culture, as the Steensnæs representative knows very well – then you have to keep up a little on some spending areas to give room for a private sector in order not to bring in so much taxes and taxes that the big speeches about the way and well and big future of small businesses are just talking. There are many disappointed business leaders and employees in the West who do not recognize Steensnæs compared to what he promised before the 1997 elections to do in relation to these companies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e659	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e662	The hundred-year we're about to leave behind was the hundredth year when the welfare community, as we know it, got its design – from poor help and care for distribution policies through education for everyone and a social security system where everyone has equal rights. We know that this development was primarily speeding up after 1945, when the Joint Programme laid the foundations for a series of reforms to come in the years that followed. Community solutions became the framework for most major reforms, and a strong and redistributive state became a necessary tool for creating fair distribution. When the welfare state, as a social form, gained its penetration after 1945, it was the liberalist belief in self-reliance and mistrust of the public that had to give up. The debate on the future of the welfare society is one of the most important debates we hold around the turn of the century. Good distribution of work and income has always been crucial to achieving the cohesion of living conditions. It'll be as important in the next century as in what we put behind. The economic boom we've experienced in the last decade has undoubtedly led to those who were initially rich becoming even richer. At the same time, those who have the least have become hanging after. The government’s balancing message demonstrates this, and the debate on a fairer distribution has again been updated. This debate is in the process of creating a new situation in Norwegian policy. When the Labour Party was in government, the central parties gave us responsibility for what they called the right turn of the policy, and they thought the country needed a new government. It has been in the country for two years, a central government that has, over the two years, prepared the budgets together with just the Right and the Advance Party. Representatives of the Government have recently stated on repeated occasions that it is only with the Workers' Party that they can manage to implement a more equitable distribution policy. The centre party has been clearer on this point. That's understandable. Cooperation with the Right and the Progressive Party has provided poor conditions for municipalities and for regional and regional policy. Budgetary comparisons over the last two years have not exactly been a sign of the policy on distribution. In today's Newspaper, the head of the Christian People's Party, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, says to the question of future government cooperation, the following: ‘There is nothing on the political agenda that tells us to have the Right. The situation is different from before the previous roll-out.’» This is clear and positive speech, and it confirms the Workers' Party's perception of the situation. There is no doubt, therefore, that in the middle of this great period, we find that the political situation has changed. The working party is pleased that the centre parties are so clear on issues of distribution policy and their relationship with the right parties. This has now led to the political fact that it facilitates cooperation between the Centre and the Workers' Party on the State budget for the first year of the next century. I know very well that the negotiations we are about to enter into will be demanding. But I'm also convinced that both parties will put a lot of effort into reaching an agreement. The distribution policy at the top of the agenda really calls for that. For me, as for others in this debate, it is a mystery how the government parties – after focusing on the importance of a better and fairer distribution – will be able to find budgetary solutions with the right parties in a later round. The country’s willingness to distribute is expressed in a number of policy areas: Equal opportunities for education, access for all to the best healthcare system, good district and industrial policy – all these are important policies for sharing. But one of the strongest instruments in the state is to redistribute taxes. Without the will to use fiscal policy, better cohesion will be difficult to achieve. The right-wing parties have used this debate to promote scares about how the Labour Party's tax policy will be a burden on business. Right there was perhaps some of the most predictable in this whole debate. But that's not going to be right anymore for that reason. It is a fact that favourable rules for the valuation and taxation of shares and assets contribute both to tax adjustment and to the avoidance of income taxation. It undermines an important principle of Norwegian distribution policy, namely that we should deliver in a capacity-based manner. I admit in many ways to the Progress Party that this is not part of their political understanding of history. They're just too young to have been able to be with when that story was designed. The Workers' Party's proposal to close such tax gaps does not represent a threat, either to industries or to jobs. There are pure horrors going on, especially from the Right. On the other hand, such measures may facilitate the provision of tax relief to those who serve at least, as the Workers' Party proposes. It will contribute to a fairer distribution. The Labour Party is committed to creating political alliances that can help bring politics into our direction. It is therefore gratifying that the centre parties have agreed to negotiate with us also on this important issue in the autumn. Strong government governance was needed in many areas when the welfare state was to be built. Major reforms necessarily had to involve a lot of government governance. At the turn of the century, we should be concerned about innovation. In a modern and more individualised society, we are faced with the task of reconciling the values of equal opportunities for all, the Community values, and combining them with greater requirements for individualisation. Most welfare community services are localised. Thus, the municipal sector plays a crucial role in achieving the objectives of fair distribution of welfare services. In order to meet the needs of citizens for adapted services, we need to look for solutions where welfare is produced, i.e. closer to the user. It implies that more power and influence — and responsibility — must be placed where the meeting place between the welfare community and its inhabitants actually takes place; in the municipalities. But if the municipalities are to rule more, the state must dare to rule less. Besides, it's only through real influence that we can recover the population's involvement in and trust in our people's government. The local elections of the harvest were a reminder of the distance between political power and the voters. We can't create more influence by making everyone a lobbyist here in Stortinget. This influence must be given to the population locally and at the expense of the detailed management of the Storting. This will require reforms in the administration, reforms towards more democracy and participation where we live, and not towards a detailed right-holder state where the meeting place between the population and the state is the courtroom. Carl I. Hagen's belief in the fact that we from Stortinget should control the design of the services, I don't share. On the contrary. Then it won't be more equal, but to a lesser extent. It is a big misunderstanding that we from Stortinget can control the design of services – and then achieve equality. The Labour Party raises these debates at the start of a new hundred years. And I'm tempted to say both with the previous and with the current leader of the Center Party: Here are the solutions at the intersection of the Workers' Party and the Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e703	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e707	Both I and the representative Hill-Marta Solberg come from Northland, a district that has problems establishing new jobs and securing the existing ones. The main reason for this is that there are large distance costs from the place of production to the market. The solution of the working party is to strengthen the SND. But what is the logic of attracting businesses to establish themselves in District Norway, when the framework conditions for staying in District Norway are absent? Norway has the world’s highest distance costs, with poor road standards and the highest operating costs in the world. A recent report by the NHO shows that Norway has 50 pst. transport costs higher than comparable EU countries. It's negative for the county and hits District Norway in particular. So what does the Workers' Party do to solve these problems? Well, they cut down on the road appropriations, and then they raise the fuel charge so that distance costs increase. It's been going on in the last few budgets. The central government has now put forward a new state budget which will once again bring about dramatic increases in the fuel tax. We know that the Workers' Party is now in conversation with the Centre Parties. My question to the Minister is: Will the Workers' Party ensure that these tax snipers are removed from the budget submitted?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e716	The President assumes that the question should go to Hill-Marta Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e719	This budgetary cooperation has not come so far that I have been given the title Minister. I'm not going to trouble myself about that, but I'm going to try to deal with what the representative's line was about, transport costs. The representative Svendsen says that the Workers' Party has helped to reduce road appropriations. Then I have to remind you of the following: The last two years of government budgets have been settled in the Grand Duchy with the support of the Progress Party. The Progress Party has negotiated budgets with the Centre Parties. What then has the representative Kenneth Svendsen and the Progress Party achieved? Well, they've achieved that today's road allocations are actually NOK 1.6 billion below the level of the road map that the last working party government presented. It is the result of the budgetary settlement that the Progress Party has been involved in the Storting in the last two years. It is therefore very difficult for me to see that the Progress Party and the representative Svendsen have made a significant contribution to better solving the problems in the road sector, not least in the northern part of the country. But I can assure the representative of the following: One of the requirements of the Workers' Party in negotiations with the Centre Parties is to ensure more resources for the road sector, because we agree that investment in transport is needed in order to create good conditions for the business community, not least the industry that has large transport costs and a long way. We are also going to negotiate all aspects of the budget, including charging pages, without commenting on it from this speaker's chair today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e728	We can see that the Norwegian society is a good society to live in. We have a welfare society that has developed, as Solberg's representative said, from 1945 until now with broad political support in the Stortinget. At the same time, we have to admit that the difference between those who have little to help with, and the richest, has increased, and perhaps the strongest now in the 1990s. This has been done by the Government through the smoothing message that is now being processed here in Storting, where one also points to what should be done to reverse this development. I find that the Labour Party is genuinely concerned with participating in this, and that is positive. The government and government are also concerned about how we will meet the challenges we see in a few years' time when it comes to pensions. In this context, the government party sees it as important that we get more people to work longer, that it should pay off to work, perhaps even after 60-62 years, that greater flexibility is possible to combine work and retirement. But the tools that the Government has pointed to have so far not been specifically joined by the Labour Party, and my question to Hill-Marta Solberg is: What means will the Labour Party use to manage the pension challenges in the years to come? The guarantee of popular security is primarily a political matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e735	When, in the 1950s and 1960s, the Stortinget debated the Norwegian pension system – and in fact, the Norwegian growth took quite a while to arrive at the decision on what became Social Security – the question of how to finance our social security system was central to that debate. To put it simply, the discussion was about financing it through ‘funding’, i.e. provisions through funds and charges paid by individuals or through taxes. The majority of the population chose to land in the past. So we have a social security system that's based on tax revenue, that finances social security on an ongoing basis. It once again assumes that we have a population that is at work. The main challenge facing us in Norwegian policy in the future to finance the large cost of pensions is that we have a well-educated population prepared to meet the challenges of business in the years to come and that can also be at work when they are of working age. There is no doubt that that is what is going to be the crucial point for future financing of social security. The biggest problem we're facing today is not those who are between 60 and 67 years old, who are not at work. The biggest problem is all those who are well under 60 years old and who are out of work, and the strong increase we have, among other things. in unearned retirement. It is a much bigger challenge than the fact that 62-63-year-olds can be allowed to change to a contractual pension. The working party has great respect for the agreements concluded between the social partners, and the contractual pension is such an agreement. We believe that we absolutely have to rely on our standing by those agreements until the parties have reached something else. In this case, this is also the case in the budget for this year, which relates to contractual pensions. There is no doubt that there is the Workers' Party's position on that question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e744	The representative Hill-Marta Solberg stated in his statement that it is only through cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Centre that a better distribution can be achieved, and referred to the Cohesion Communication. I would like to remind you that in the Cohesion Communication it is black in white that it was from 1990 to 1997, when the Labour Party put in government, that the differences in Norway increased. It was in budgetary cooperation with the centre every two years. The point, and what it really shows, is that the differences decrease when more values are created, when businesses go well and people get work. So if we're going to get a new recession, the differences might increase, because then it's just going to get fewer jobs. The working party warned last year against tax cuts and increased electricity charges, especially increased electricity charges. It hits unsocially, and it couldn't accept the Workers' Party. This year the government has proposed to increase the electricity charge by 42 pst, which contributes to the price of the next year increasing by 1⁄4 pst. due to the electricity charge. The Prime Minister here today confirmed that the Workers' Party seems to accept this part of the package. In the financial debate last year, the representative Hill-Marta Solberg said: ‘The working party believes it is right to remove price-driven charging increases’. Does the representative of Solberg continue to believe that it is right to remove all price-driven tax increases in the budget for next year? If the representative Solberg and the Labour Party do not think so, what is the reason? Is there anything in economic development that warrants it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e756	It surprises me if it is such that the representative Børge Burnde does not see any difference in the situation we were facing in the Norwegian economy last autumn, and the one we are facing this autumn. It surprises me greatly if it is not clear to the Right that the situation is quite different. Actually, it is. We are also in a different situation with regard to the effects of the price effects of the economy than that of last year's harvest. The Labour Party stands by everything we proposed in the budget last autumn, and everything we voted against. The representative Brende now appears as another right-wing representative who is trying to create a picture that the Labour Party's policy on taxes and taxes does not harmonize with the challenges, among other things. for business. Then I have to state once again something that the Right really knows: the Workers' Party has helped to reduce the wealth tax. The party has helped to reduce the tax burden on industry. It has been positive, important and necessary. However, it seems as a mystery to me that the Right will not be included, among other things. what the Workers' Party will address in the negotiations with the Centre Parties, namely to close a number of remaining gaps in the tax system. It was an important part of what happened in the context of the tax reform. Nevertheless, we see that there are considerable opportunities for adjustments in our tax system which mean that values can be avoided or valued so low that there is, in reality, also an accidental tax evasion that takes place. It would have been much more positive if the Right had actively gone into it and would have joined a process in Stortinger where you could close some of the holes that are obviously present in the tax system. As regards the electricity charge, I would like to remind you that the Workers' Party is negotiating with the Centre Parties to introduce a progressive system of electricity prices to protect general household consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e765	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e768	Several of the speakers in this throne debate have spent a lot of their time looking forward and facing the challenges we face at the entrance of a new century, with a slightly different starting point. There's of course every reason to do that, not least because such a milestone as a century's turn of events, not to say a millennium, is grounds for reflection. That gives us reason to look a little bit backwards. That gives us reason to think about how we're going to solve the problems today for the people here and now, and how we're going to solve the problems in the future. Most of us sitting here have lived long enough to have experienced the tearing technological development we've had in the last ten years. I, who, in fact, count myself to be a relatively young man, have experienced the time with a wave telephone. We were six households sharing one line, and we had to wait for a walk when we were going to use the phone. I have experienced that the central shut down at 1 p.m. 21, because then the central desk lady went home, and after that we were free from telephones. For the younger ones, this is almost unreal and history from a completely different time. But after all, it's not long ago. At the turn of this century, the head of the U.S. Patent Office said: now we can shut down the Patent Office, because all the inventions that are worth doing are already done. We don't need an American patent office anymore. Today, we can draw the smiley tape of that kind of statement. But I actually think we're quite a lot that sometimes surprises us: Is it now possible to get any further technologically? Is it possible to get further on the track? Is it possible to continue the development we have seen over time, also into the future? One thing is certain: this development will continue. Our first task is to exploit the opportunities offered by technological development, and also to counteract unfortunate aspects of this raging technological development, such as a strong centralisation, such as: that both power, capital and jobs are increasingly centralised. We need to work to ensure national long-term ownership of our business, we need to work to increase knowledge and competence in business, in the population, in all of us, so that we can meet tomorrow's challenges in the areas that I am talking about here. And we must not least work for one of the areas for which I am responsible in the Government; make sure that the districts take advantage of the opportunities offered by new technology. The use of State instruments shall promote the development of a competitive business in the districts, it shall make districts a good location option for business and a good alternative residence, so that people can continue to live and have their work where they wish in the future. This is why the Government is doing some new work in district policy. That's why we are now entering the next century where we want to focus even more on innovation, on empowerment, on creating a competitive business in District Norway, where we can contribute to the transformation of the companies that need to change, which need to meet the new time and challenges in a new way. Another question that has been raised here in the debate on the throne, on which I also want to spend some time, is: How are we going to provide the best possible services to the inhabitants of the municipalities? How are we to ensure that people get as good a school as possible, that they have good kindergartens, that they have good care for the elderly, that they have cultural and cultural activities that make a community good to live in? Unlike the Progress Party, I am absolutely convinced that the only way we can do this is by giving greater local space for action, greater local opportunities to influence our own everyday lives. I am convinced that wit is fairly equally distributed in this country. I am convinced that we are not the ones sitting here in this room, who are best able to care for the interests of the citizens around the municipalities. Actually, I think you can do it locally. That's why we have to make it right. Therefore, we need to facilitate the provision of services to municipalities, not to administer because of state requirements, as the policy of the Progress Party will lead to. We're going to clean up double administration, we're going to clean up unnecessary bureaucracy both in the county and in the municipalities. It is a challenge for our people elected around, but it requires local space for action. That is why I am pleased that it now appears to be a budgetary procedure that goes in a direction where the parties that are now taking part in the negotiations in the future have the same objective: to give greater room for local action, not more governmental governance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e785	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e788	Based on what the Council of State said now, I expect that it will be easy to agree that municipalities need NOK 1 billion more in free income, not least to increase the local maritime administration. But I want to challenge the Council of State on another very important point that calls for action, namely housing policy. We are now in a situation where young people in Oslo and other major cities in Norway have to rely on rich parents or rich grandparents to get a place to live. There is something fundamentally wrong when apartments of 30 m2 in Oslo are sold for 1 million. kr. At the same time, we see that the number of homeless people has increased in the 1990s. We now have over 6,000 people who don't have a place to live, and here's the big numbers of darkness. These differences are unworthy of our welfare state, and as one of the world's richest countries, the most important thing for us is that we make sure that people have a place to live independently of million parent or million parent parents. We have an obligation to make sure that there are fewer people in the situation that the home is the street, as it is for someone today. We had expectations of the budget presented by the Government in this area. It is affordable that 2 billion more have been proposed to the House Bank, but it is a problem that that money is too little targeted compared to those that are the most difficult on the housing market. That's why we need more reasonable, cheap rental homes. The Labour Party proposes to build 1000 student homes next year and several rental homes, just to help those who are the worst in the housing market. My question will then be: Will the government parties be involved in an upliftment for the very worst of us by supporting our proposals for a bet on this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e800	I agree with Mr Brustad that the challenges we face in the housing sector must definitely be taken seriously. Especially the recent increase in prices in big cities, and especially in Oslo, is not acceptable. But I would point out that it is also a municipal responsibility to contribute to solving this. Municipalities have a separate responsibility to facilitate housing in such a way that reasonable, good housing can also be built. The example of an apartment of 30 m2 that costs about 1 million. kr in Oslo, of course, is a gruesome example. But there's actually also reason to remember that one should not be far outside the center of Oslo to find that the housing prices are half of what they are in the most expensive areas of the city. It is also true that you have some choices within Oslo's borders in relation to where you are going to live. So the kind of examples, at the most expensive apartments, the worst examples of prices, I think we should be a little bit careful with drawing out, because it's actually not the government's job to contribute to the most expensive apartments in Oslo Centre necessarily being chosen. Here's the market that rules. Our task is primarily to facilitate the groups that the representative Brustad mentions: the disadvantaged, the young in the start-up phase and those who are going to take education. Through the framework increase of SEK 2 billion to the House Bank, which the Government has now set up at the top of the budget increase of DKK 1 billion that was introduced last year, we have in fact arranged for a rise in housing construction, also in Oslo, also for those who need it the most. Then there are some other instruments that are also necessary. The government has said that it will come back to this and include it in an overall assessment, among other things. in the context of the treatment of the balancing communication, where these issues are widely addressed. We have said that we will also look at this in the context of the presentation of the revised national budget, so that we will be able to get a comprehensive overview of the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e811	Governments are generally concerned about local freedom of action. Now, the government and government parties are happy to have announced measures to create a simpler Norway, and when you look at the legal jungle, the comprehensive legislation and the labour-intensive form field with which both business and municipalities are concerned, most of us realize that there is a need for simplification in many areas of our society. From municipal level, it is increasingly pointed out that there is a significant need for simplification of municipal everyday life, for example: in the case of innumerable State requirements for drawing up plans and for reporting and control systems for the municipal activities. It is, therefore, not only from business circles that simplification is called for, but also from the municipalities – with the rapporteurs, the councillors, the establishment leaders and the local politicians at the head – there is a call for a more simplified municipal everyday life. For more than 25 years, we in the Progress Party have pointed out the need for simplification of the unnecessaryly complex legislative and regulatory framework with which our society is struggling. This seems to have been realised by the government parties only now, 25 years after the Progress Party. But we in the Progress Party are used to the others coming after us. My question to the Council of State is: When can we expect the Government to put action behind the words of a simpler Norway, and concretely propose simplifications like real monks, for example. in the case of the heavy-wine design and building law, which acts both hostile to districts and hostile to small farms, which often seems very costly and which creates a less efficient construction market? Can we expect something to be done to simplify these things and the municipal administration?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e820	Unfortunately, it is quite a long way between life and learning in the Progress Party in this area. It is precisely central government direction that leads to increased reporting requirements and increased requirement to draw up plans. Because it is not the intention of the Progress Party to use designation in absolutely all areas, state money to go to the user without any control over it? The larger the local space for action, the greater the local responsibility, and the greater the local opportunities to design the services for the benefit of the citizens, the lower we can set the requirement for reporting and for drawing up plans for funding. The party of progress is moving in the right direction in a practical policy direction, in the opposite direction, of what they say they should do. It's a problem. All experience shows that it is in relation to the earmarked schemes that administration and bureaucracy are increasing. This is where there is a greater need to promote applications for funds, and there is a greater need to report on the use of these funds. It will also be with the policies of the Progress Party. Then go to the project ‘Simplify Norway’. Yes, that's absolutely right: the government has great ambitions in this area. There is a significant amount of rules and regulations to which it can and must be cleaned up, both in relation to business, municipalities and the public sector in general. But it's a great and difficult job, and it's not done in a short time to achieve good results. For it is often the case that laws and regulations that have come over a long period of time have a connection. It is not possible to take a single rule out of a larger context. We have to look at this in terms of totality – and the results we expect will come in a few years. In my department, we are constantly working to simplify legislation towards municipalities, not least in an area that Andersen's representative mentions, the Planning and Building Act. Here we have already made significant simplifications in the legislation and regulations we have had so far, precisely to ensure small businesses, just to make it easier for those who are going to build meeting municipalities with their applications, and to have applications processed more quickly and to reduce the scope of what is to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e829	Let me first congratulate the Council of State on his new dignity, as No. 2 of the Government. I have no problem joining absolutely everything the Council of State says. I fully agree that there is a need for greater local self-government, fully agreeing that there is a need for active district policy, and not least I agree that we need a knowledge promise for the nation. But there's a couple of hooks at what the council says. It is that the Government does not follow up its own policies in very important areas of this. He himself was involved in the relationship between word and deed. Let me take three examples that show that, unfortunately, this does not go in the direction that the Council of State would like it to go. The current budget now has 45 million. NOK to a so-called IT centre at Fornebu, in addition to the other money we are going to use to establish this centre. This is one of the most centralising knowledge measures facing this nation, where the Government now actually wants a new centre of excellence to centralise knowledge research in Norway into the central eastern region. In the case of the municipal economy, municipalities will also have a very difficult economy until next year. What also turns out is that the free income goes down, while the earmarked revenue goes up. It means less local self-government for municipalities to prioritise differently or to give priority to meeting the challenges of municipalities. Older people, who, with earmarked funds, obviously have to use some of their free income to release government funds for the elderly, which are correct and necessary, make schools suffer. That's the last point where I think the government's policy is also going in the wrong direction. For through these two years that the Government has been sitting, Education Norway has continuously lost. The council itself was the one who went out in the election campaign and said that we can't afford to bet on education for another couple of years because there are other major reforms we have to finish first. Then is the big challenge: does the nation really afford this, and how should the Council of State, which is now even no. 2 in the Government, can you get a little more coherence between words and deeds from the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e842	First, it is a pleasure to register that the representative Djupedal agrees with everything I have said. It is a good promise to join the Government's arrangement. It is a challenge to ensure that an IT centre at Fornebu will become a centre to benefit the whole country, as decided by the Stortinge, which is also the starting point for the government to deal with this. It is quite obvious that a massive concentration of jobs in this area in Oslo is a major challenge in terms of ensuring skills, workers and jobs also in district Norway. For this reason, the regional perspective of the Government’s work on this issue has been highlighted: linking networks to established research institutions, educational institutions and businesses in District Norway in a way that will also have positive effects in rural areas. Because it's an area where I think we have opportunities to exploit new technologies to strengthen districts' business and districts' ability to gather knowledge and information, it's precisely in the field of IT and the type of industries that we're talking about here. There's a lot of opportunities. We need to know how to use this in a wise and sensible way and – I admit it – an IT centre at Fornebu is a challenge in this context. The municipalities have a strenuous economy. I have never hidden the fact that the scheme laid down for the following year, which was adopted by a unanimous increase in spring in connection with the presentation of the municipal economic proposition, is a tight scheme. It puts municipalities on major challenges in order to meet the tasks they are assigned to next year. But I also said that we can't afford to take the big, heavy promises that we need – and I think SV is quite right in its estimates, we're actually talking about an amount of 12-15 billion kroner for upgrading the school buildings over the next few years. That part I think I have to wait. Actually, I think we've seen that now. But on the other hand, the government bets at school. We're strengthening the school budget by almost 8 pst. for the next year and show that we are targeted in this area. We're going to take the right steps, but I think we're going to do things in the right order. Let's finish the seniorization as we've started, and then get to work on the big problems in the school sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e851	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e854	President! Can I get the word to clarify a manifest misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e861	The President has doubts as to whether it is possible to solve a misunderstanding, but is going to take the chance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e864	It must be a manifest misunderstanding when the Council of State now said that the municipal economy that was adopted at Stortinget in spring was adopted unanimously. I assume that there was a delay on the part of the Council of State, because the Workers' Party went in to grant approx. One billion more than the government had put on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e869	It is correct that the Workers' Party in the setting of the municipal economic proposition announced that it would return to the budget with a further allocation of NOK 1 billion, which I now record that the Workers' Party has done. The main features of the municipal economicproposition were unanimously endorsed. It's also the case that the government has invested half a billion dollars in addition to what was announced in the municipal economic proposition that you should grant, so we've fulfilled the promises we made in our municipal economic proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e874	It should probably be almost unnecessary to say that SV has a much more liberal local economy. It's almost like we're at the level that the Center Party was in opposition, so the Center Party in opposition and we have a lot in common in terms of local economy. No wind helps the one who does not know where to sail. For a long time, the center government has let the wind from the right fill the sails on a course away from the Adultås declaration. But I have a hope now that the wind will soon turn. A theme of this debate has been the sins of the past. The Centre and the Workers' Party have recognized that the differences, the distance between those on the sun's side that frown in wealth, and those who have the least, are greater than ever. The working party and the center are blamed on each other. It may be necessary to clarify which sins have been committed in order to correct them. It's tempting to find the sinner before we forgive and look forward to it. But let's at least agree that influence from the Advancement Party and the Right makes worse. Some have been tempted to look even further back, to the good old days – if they were so good – at times when the division of policies was simpler, with the right-left axis. A right-wing representative spoke warmly about John Lyng's brief reigning epoch. The Frps dream back to times when Norway did not have the new countrymen with different cultural and religious backgrounds. But to say it with the words of Halvdan Sivertsen, which initiates «The song about tomorrow»: It happened to you long teabake and dreams about the days when life was lightDas threaten was simple and rightNow life's learned death now you've been relieved, God knows where you land It's important to know where to land. It is important to find out who you need to work with to land in the right place. Because that's not just bright perspectives we're going into the next millennium with. If we're going to do these problems, it's important to park the Progress Party and the Right Sideline in Norwegian politics. In order to bring it down to a regional level at a time when chaotic conditions prevail with all manner of constellations in the formation of local governments and county councils: in my home country, Northern Ireland, parliamentaryism must be established with a county council. I very much appreciate the fact that the Workers' Party, the Centre Parties and the SV have worked towards a common political platform. They didn't need an SV to create a majority, but I think they thought that so: SV had something to contribute. I wish it gave direction to political work in this Chamber too – for what tasks are we facing? For us in SV, an active, targeted, international solidarity effort, with assistance and a fair trading system, stands at the heart. I assume that the Labour Party and the Centre agree that the Progress Party and the Right should not have influence over Norwegian policy in this field. For us in SV, the work on human rights is important. There's nothing for the Progress Party to contribute. SV wants to limit the power of market forces. I will acknowledge that I am not satisfied with the Working Party and the centre of this question. But compared to the Progress Party and the Right, I see opportunities at the Workers' Party and Centre, because in what is our main field of action in national policy, the centre of gravity lies from the centre and to the left. It should also do for the Government. We want to bet on a school that provides opportunities for anyone who does not become an elite school for those who have the resources to get the best options — a school for the future and not for the past. We want a health service where you don't buy space in the queue, but where we all, regardless of social rank and wealth, take care of the price tag of the disease. We want a distribution policy that creates greater social equality, where the wealthy do not become surfers in a tax system full of holes, but have to deliver to the community. We want a district policy where you are willing to put in place tools to make use of the whole country. We want an environmental policy that takes the challenges seriously, whether in terms of collective action, alternative energy or conservation of marine resources and avoiding privatisation of public law. This is an important field where the centre does not come any way by seeking cooperation with the Advance Party and the Right. There is also a conflict between the Labour Party, Centre and SV – very conflicty. But in this constellation, at least the problems are recognized, and then it's possible to find the solutions. I see that we have conflicts in which we cannot easily find common solutions – EU membership with the Labour Party, for example. But there's nothing better in an alliance with the right-hand side. We in SV see enough that our defence policy will not stand strong in such cooperation, but it will be even worse if the Progress Party and the Right had a hand on the rudder. SV and the Workers' Party do not agree with the Centre on cash support. But is it enough to let the Right Party and the Advance Party control the other policy? The answer is no. I have wondered how the Workers' Party has intended to recognise that the way back to power is by establishing a majority as a basis for governance. I have collected the challenges of the central government. In addition to the resistance to the cash support – which I also oppose – that has been stillborn since the central government entered into a four-year contract with the Progress Party and the Right, I have only observed a challenge where the Workers' Party has stood, where they have not given at the doors – a politically bad case in an alliance that the Workers' Party should have kept away from: IT Fornebu. This alliance legitimizes Hedstrom, which the Workers' Party should have held at least one arm's length distance, and gives the Advance Party the opportunity to re-show that it is those who decide where the majority should be. In addition, it is a very bad case. I think the Workers' Party has been a loser, but the centre parties have been politically helpless. It sounds amazing when the Prime Minister justifies contact with the Workers' Party on the State budget purely formalistic that the Workers' Party is the largest opposition party. Centre should turn left, because it is there – and only there – they find answers to important questions such as: international solidarity better distribution forward-looking school solidarity health policy active district policy etc. They only find that alliance if they look to the left. Developing a majority basis for political change will be a stormy sail, but I think that's the only option we have if we're not to crash. We have opportunities. We should do as the northerners when they establish county government. We must create the right alliances. Then we form tomorrow in our image, or as Halvdan Sivertsen says it in the last verse of «The song about this morning»: Come sing a song about in the morning Still lying naked and newborn in the east While the night gives yesterday's tears its consolation If you cried them in grief or anger Do you have the day tomorrow to win?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e951	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e954	I have noticed that the Socialist Left has, on several occasions, affected the various budgetary areas of the Bondevik Government, and usually in critical order, the frequency with which individual cases are maximised. But I think there should be some areas where SV could also be satisfied with the government's work. It's kind of not credible when it's claimed with a wide pen that, for example. Norwegian school is bad. This is a dangerous signal to send out about a school that does a very good job. And what about the government's bet in terms of e.g. health, environment and assistance – and perhaps not least what the representative Myrvoll is concerned about, namely bet on the NSB? Are these also hopeless areas of activity of the Government if it is a prerequisite for tightness in the economy in order to lower interest rates and further increase employment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e964	When you see the enlightened shopping malls, modern, beautiful – I’m not so happy with the architecture all the time, but it’s all huge investments – when you see worn-out schools – I can only take Mo Youth School in my own hometown, it looks something like when I went to primary school – and when you know how little money there is to make the education exciting so that you can go with all the students and give the teachers time to the students, then it’s very hard to say that Norwegian school is good! It's not good for the future we're going to meet, and it's not good when you see the great private wealth, while the school is characterized by public poverty. When I measure this government, it's a little bit of a assumption that we're dealing with areas like the environment, etc. stood partly together in opposition, but I feel that it has been a little different after the parties got in position. I am also measuring this government a little bit from the Adult Declaration – which I have a copy of, which I have soon read infills, so I have to probably get a new one – because there are a lot of goals I share, and which I feel the Government has not tried to achieve. The representative Holten is wondering if I'm not satisfied with the bet on the NSB. I was on the Transport Committee when the Railway Plan was discussed two and a half years ago, when the Centre Parties introduced an annual investment level of NOK 2 billion per year. year to railway. For the year 2000, it is as far as they go over $1 billion. I believe the path in the county of the representative Holten – Østfoldbanen – at such a pace is going to be an eternal site for 30 years to come before the double track is completed, and we are not served with that. I could draw up a lot of other routes and point to the same thing – so I'm not satisfied with the effort. If we are to increase our efforts, we must withdraw some of the private wealth and use it to provide good Community solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e975	The representative Myrvoll mentions that we need to have a district policy where one is willing to put in place a tool to make use of the whole country. Of course, his right answer is yes to that. But then we have to address what we know works – and here is a tool that the representative Myrvoll should know very well about: road construction and road maintenance – both in order to develop high-growth labour market regions, to reduce accident rates and to reduce costs for industry and the population. Then it is a paradox that SV in the budget for the current year was the party that put total effort at least on the road, when it relates to investment and on the operating side. At the same time, we can read in the Nations for approx. a week ago that Myrvoll – and that is the representative Myrvoll – «is moving north Norway... if it does not join the road revolt». If that would mean that we got more of the country in use, I'm not going to bring up here in a line. However, if the representative Myrvoll thinks that North Norway will have a greater share, my answer would be that we would rather have to go in for larger roadways. At the same time, SV has our negative to major strategic projects, including: in my own country, which will bind large regions, e.g. The Eiksund connection, which will provide 20,000 people with continental connections. And my questions to the representative Myrvoll are: Isn't road construction the most important tool? Does the representative Myrvoll not see that increasing frames is the only way to start these issues? And can the representative Myrvoll not think of supporting the important strategic projects that industry and its people are calling for?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e986	When the Right starts talking about district policy, I feel that it's getting a little pathetic – those who are ironing out regional instruments, those who cut public purchases of postal services, etc. in its budgets. If it had been passed, it would have been a very bad district policy. But now the representative wants to talk more about road construction. It is the way that the Right has more money in it than we do. It should be acknowledged, sail if he is wrong when he has gone through the budget for the last year, and says that SV had at least. But the right has a very centralistic way of thinking about it. It is true that we are actually moving road money from central strokes to districts, while we are betting on railway development in central struts – so we have a very large transport budget. We think about the environment in central space, and then we think that where the road is the only option, we get to rust up the standard. If you go through the Right Alternative Budget for 1999, it was added at NOK 1 billion, but there was almost nothing to the part of the country I come from, North Norway. To my county, Nordland, it was NOK 0, so that the Right is a centralizing party, even in road construction. With regard to the Eiksund connection, as he specifically mentioned, I believe it is a mistake priority. So, Møre and Romsdal have a lot of curved, razed roads. They have a number of roads with poor road standards, and I want to give priority to the upgrading over a large, expensive construction project that does not help the county as a whole. What I also think is important when we talk about roads, is that we're not just talking about how much money we spend, but how we spend them. Too much money has been spent on building buildings – on great projects that some people are remembered for – instead of cleaning up the roads, so we get a good standard, and do something with the road between the ferries instead of making tunnels and bridges everywhere. We must live with the fact that we have ferries in this country for a while, because the country is quite fjordish.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e997	Both Inge Myrvoll and I are very concerned that we are going to have a development where we create values and where we create activity in all parts of the country. Increasing the value creation of those parts of non-petroleum-based Norwegian industry is also something that the whole nation relies on. If we're going to do that, we're going to have to reduce the obstacles that have traditionally been a constraint on the districts. The development of transport services, roads and railways is a contribution to this. Another important contribution is to develop the new opportunities offered by information and communication technologies, where the Workers' Party and SV have agreed on the importance of developing a national high-speed network, so that we can ensure that all parts of the country can take advantage of the new opportunities. When dealing with this matter in the Stortinget in our Workers' Party and SV, we put forward proposals that meant that we should use instruments that could ensure this: universality of high-speed services for telecommunications companies and the maximum price that would ensure that there were no excessive price differences. I assume that the representative Myrvoll and I were equally disappointed that we did not get a majority for this, as the government parties and the Right said no to deploy such instruments now. Since that happened, the State Council of Enoxsen has gone out with blizzards and brams and announced a desire to develop a nationwide high-speed network. This may indicate that the situation may be somewhat different now than it was at the time this case was dealt with in Stortinget. I would like to invite SV and Inge Myrvoll to contribute to a new promotion to ensure that all households throughout the country are given the opportunity to take advantage of the new opportunities. I would like to hear the views of the representative Myrvoll on the possibilities he sees in the picture he describes here, for a possible interaction between the Workers' Party, SV and the Government to develop these kinds of instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1006	I would like to start with a few critical remarks on the Labour Party's district policy, because it is important to use the whole country. We don't move the fish, it's off the coast. Moving the forests is a very long-term project. Industry is also largely located in the West and North Norway, where we have an important product production. The infrastructure that goes on the road and on the road is important, and then I would say that the decline in investments for District Norway, and in particular North Norway, began during the Workers' Party government. The fact that the downturn has continued under the center rule is very frightening. It would have been more natural if it had been the Right Party and the Advance Party that had stood for such a policy, than the Workers' Party and the Centre. I encourage like I did in a newspaper a while ago: "Now the Nordic representatives get a little up, if they don't move out. But back to the question: I accept the invitation that we now have to try to establish a majority, so that the value creation that will be important for the future – which goes on knowledge, on competence and on the new technology – will apply to the whole country. I would like to join an alliance with the Workers' Party to try to challenge the Center Party, after the State Council of Enoxen in the election campaign was out with a rather bold proposal. If we don't land on that particular proposal, there's probably a chance to sew together a common solution between the center, the working party and the SV that makes the new technology not centralizing. I agree with the representative of Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen: Mr Enoxen has opened up an opportunity, we are going to seize the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1015	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1018	It is clear from the census that the Government supports efforts to strengthen the European capacity to deal with and prevent crises and conflicts. That position should be a national joint venture to the greatest extent. Two world wars have known their origins in Europe, and Norway was hit by both. The national foreign and security policy line, which meant that Norway would do the best on its own, while others sorted out separately, has played too long. This historical experience has become no less important in the light of the new and far more complex threat picture than what we know from the time of the Cold War. We have no certainty that ongoing and new regional and local conflicts are not spreading. The loss of the block division has paradoxically also lowered the barriers to smaller armed conflicts. Ethnic, religious and social contradictions, both in Europe’s neighbourhoods and globally, have flared up and led to unimaginable human suffering in the last decade. The environmental threats, not least from the legacy of the Cold War, illustrated by the decommissioned nuclear submarines in Norway’s surrounding areas in the north, are extensive. The danger that large and small countries in the Third World do not feel any commitment regarding the arms control, reduction and elimination of weapons of mass destruction by the old powers is significant. If the Senate in the United States refuses to approve the cease-fire agreement in the nuclear tests that the U.S. government has signed for the longest time, it will hurt worse. The possibilities for smaller terrorist groups outside any international or national control to be served by cruel weapons and modern weapon systems represent a new intergovernmental challenge. The UN Security Council has and should continue to have overall responsibility for global peace and security. Despite many positive experiences from the history of the World Organisation, the development of security policy and the more complex threat picture help to clarify the UN's weaknesses: because more and more conflicts and wars are not taking place between countries, but in individual countries, the veto law is being updated through the opposition of China and Russia, above all, to the international community's taking over of power in what is often seen as the internal affairs of the states. Furthermore, the number of conflicts is so large that the world community's lack of willingness and ability to make resources available to the UN often does not allow the organisation to prevent human suffering or to prevent conflicts until it is too late. NATO's role in peace operations was for the first time more widely discussed by NATO's Foreign Ministers in 1992. They decided that NATO forces could be used for peacekeeping actions mandated by the UN Security Council or by the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. NATO's action and presence in Bosnia, outside NATO's territory, is the first great example of this. NATO was given this task only after the UN forces in the former Yugoslavia had failed their mission. Clear mandates and guidelines and uniform command lines, as in NATO, have often proved necessary to achieve results in more demanding peacekeeping and peace-building operations. The Kosovo conflict in ours, as is known, failed to reach agreement in the Security Council on a mandate similar to that of Bosnia, although the Security Council last September found that the situation in the region, with a quarter of a million refugees and internally displaced persons, posed a threat to peace and security throughout the region. Long and numerous rounds of negotiations, where Russia also participated in the final design of the Milosevic offer, and said no, made it clear that the Security Council's demands would not be met. The danger of widespread ethnic war and genocide, with the experience of Bosnia in fresh memory, led the parties of the Great Britain to join the need for NATO to intervene with power in Kosovo, despite the fact that Russia and China prevented an operational mandate in the Security Council. Governments and parliaments in all NATO countries reached the same conclusion. But it wasn't easy in any member country. The danger of regional security and the prospect of an even greater humanitarian disaster, if no one did anything drastic, became decisive. It is true that NATO, in its new strategy paper, adopted retrospectively, opens up the possibility for NATO to operate again in a similar situation. It would be wrong, at my discretion, to completely exclude such an opportunity, if it were to shine as imperative. But first of all, the forces must now be deployed to strengthen the role of the United Nations to intervene effectively in major internal conflicts of the kind that we have seen in the last decade, both in the Balkans and elsewhere in the world. Here, there is a particular responsibility on Russia and China, which has been consistently negative to humanitarian interventions, although these should be highly debated and dealt with on the basis of the values of the United Nations Charter. Should e.g. The murders of East Timor from this summer have continued unhindered, if a major act of the UN Security Council had opposed an international intervention force? The answer is, unfortunately, most likely yes, if a major power had blocked such a decision. Luckily, that didn't happen. The political, economic and military costs of NATO's action in Kosovo are so great that the danger of creating a pattern for NATO in the future is greatly exaggerated. The possibilities of neither NATO nor anyone else, even when there is a strong need for it, are very likely to be much greater. The danger of doing too little, not too much, is, unfortunately, the pattern from a wide range of other areas of conflict in the world. At the same time, it is clear that NATO does not — and should not — have any role as self-appointed world police. Europe’s inability to prevent and prevent human suffering in the Balkans is the main driving force in its desire to seriously strengthen its common foreign and security policy. In the United States, many see it similar as not desirable that there is now hardly any alternative to calling on American forces in the event of serious violent conflicts in Europe. The decisions to integrate defence cooperation into the Western Union in the EU are a milestone. The election of former Secretary-General Solana of NATO, both as EU ‘Mr. Europe’ and the possible Secretary-General for the Resolution of the Western Union illustrate that this process has brought new weight. In the Western Union, as is known to non-EU European NATO countries, Norway, Turkey and Iceland, membership has now been associated with important rights. These rights will fall away with the dissolution of the Western Union, with no associated membership of the EU. It is of major foreign and security policy importance that Norway does not become a B-nation as Europe takes a more independent foreign and security policy responsibility. Although NATO will continue to be the main collective security organisation in Europe, it is beyond doubt that the EU will become increasingly important in crisis management and peace operations. Of course, full rights in this work and equality with the majority of European countries can only be achieved by Norway with membership of the EU. A clarification of this issue can only be linked to a wider European and EU debate, which will, after all, be forced forward in the next decade. With Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Baltic countries, Slovenia, Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia and Cyprus as members of the EU, the EU will become without comparison the most vital organisation for European foreign and security policy coordination and action. It should be a difficult moment for Norway to deal with the new Europe. Of course, this issue should not be linked to the cooperation climate in Stortinget on something quite different, namely the year’s budgetary procedure, which the Prime Minister was well aware of today’s newspaper – whether he is correctly quoted. And that's always an important reservation. In the meantime, it is of great importance that Norway ensures as good cooperation arrangements with the EU as possible. Through their military and financial contributions, Norway is seen as a medium-sized European player with whom good cooperation is useful. However, the increasing dynamism of EU foreign and security policy coordination and the closure of the Western Union can lead to a complete disconnection from decision-making processes that also concern Norway to the greatest extent. That is why there is a lot of work to be done in what is now going on, namely the efforts of the Government to guarantee us the same rights in the European Union as those we now have in the Western European Union. This is a foreign, security and defence policy task of rank for a small nation in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1046	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1050	The representative, Bjørn Tore Godal, took special care of our relationship with the development of the European Security and Defence Policy. It is a very important development, which we have every reason to follow closely, especially in the situation we are in as a member of NATO, but not a member of the EU. From my point of view, I can only agree with the representative Godal in what he presented as important to Norway. If we don't act and follow up the challenges that are coming here on an ongoing basis, we'll be very easy to get into. The fact that we are in the same situation as new NATO members and also some old NATO members, should give us greater scope to work out solutions that bring us as early into the process as possible, and as close to the real decision-making part as possible. It's a very important part. Another part of this situation is the fact that, as we have been, we will still be very dependent on the role of the United States. With the United States as the most important ally to Norway in this very special situation, it is also important that we make the best possible arrangements to have a good and extended dialogue with the United States. Then it might be interesting to ask the representative Bjørn Tore Godal what assessments he thinks should be taken into account in our relationship with the United States. There will be some kinky points related to some previous decisions regarding both the mine agreement, part of what is the United States' thoughts and tasks related to common defence, and not least the National Missile Defence. So I ask the representative, Godal, what is his approach to the United States in such a political balance?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1059	The representative Røsjorde is absolutely best when he talks about what he is most engaged in, defence policy, and not other parts of the Advance Party's policy. But just on this question, I think to the extent that one hits something on the side. It is clear that one always faces challenges in relation to many allies in terms of individual elements of security and defence policy. But none of the examples he mentioned seem to me to represent some challenge or strain in relation to the United States. On the contrary, NATO is an alliance of nations that emphasises something different, not least in the field of landmines, without itself being produced as an impression of cooperation in the alliance at any time. And I'm glad that Secretary of State Vollebæk, for example. has been able to report on very fruitful contacts with his American colleague in the follow-up to what was produced by many here in the Chamber as a very difficult matter, namely that we should think something quite different from the United States in the case of the Landmine Convention. Some of the same thing I feel about the questions related to National Missile Defence. We have to deal with these issues as they come, but I have hurt to see that some of them in total or separately represent some challenge to a good existing relationship over the Atlantic – neither for Norway and the United States, nor for the other European allies and the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1066	First, I will give the representative Godal a tribute for his warm commitment to international peace operations and to security and peace in Europe also in a global context. I also mentioned these global challenges that we face in my speech and that as national politicians, we need to solve the national challenges before addressing the global challenges, to give young people confidence that global challenges can be solved. It's a little typical, it's like the youth who's going to fight to solve the global challenges! If not soon the adult population in Norway, which is overrepresented in government and care, recovers or finds a glow to fight to solve global challenges, we are a materialistically rich but socially poor Norway. The main challenges lie in the environment, they are at conflict, as the representative said, but they are also at a crossroads in the international distribution of resources. And I'll focus a little bit on the last one. The government has presented many assistance measures, good actions: an increase in the assistance budget from 0.88 p.m. to 0.89 pst. by GNI, tolls on individual goods from developing countries, the cancellation of non-resident debt, and the Government also has a leading role with its Minister of Human Rights in pressure on other countries to do the same. But not least, it's important that we also be able to see that, for example. Africa is more than drought, hunger, disaster and war – it is a greater diversity than that, and it is our challenge there as well. My challenge to the representative is: Will the Labour Party find international solidarity outside and beyond the happy social-democratic family? Will the Workers' Party have a warmer commitment to aid – Christian People's Party cannot do this alone? Will the Workers' Party take responsibility, not just the AUF? And will you stand with the Christian People's Party for a national responsibility for this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1077	It is very good to have questions that the representative must know that the answer is yes. But there has also been a very strong alliance here in the Chamber between the Workers' Party and the intermediate parties and SV in many of the questions that the representative here addresses. It is quite clear that the majority of the Storing that is made up of these parties has been a guide to the high level we have on our assistance, and to the commitment we have in other parts of our foreign and aid policy at the points mentioned by the representative. It's not like there's a need here to bring together support for the government's policy -- that's how we see a prolongation of the same lines we've been dealing with on these issues. Is there anything that should be noted in this regard, that the government's assistance profile in relation to its own statements is considerably below that of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party in the Stortinget before they came into government. And I have difficulty seeing the increase in the aid prom from 0.88 pst. to 0.89 pst. as a major breakthrough for anything in this context. It roughly represents a continuation of a solidarity commitment that we all have to have a commitment to increase beyond this. I agree with the representative Eriksen that the global commitment to human security is not a generational challenge; it is a challenge for all of us. In my first big political meeting, which was the 1963 AUF national meeting, it stood all over the wall: the future of the world – our responsibility. Luckily it is that it engages young people that day in many parties, not least our two parties. But I agree that the work should be carried out with weight, it must involve much more and we must explain to the people of Norway that this is a social task that creates security for all of us regardless of age.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1086	The representative, Mr Tore Godal, stressed the development of security in Europe in his speech. There's every reason to do that. We're watered down by being sovereign in the First Division when it comes to dealing with security issues in this part of the world. Now we see that we are entering a development where we are going to sit in the hall, we may be allowed to express ourselves in advance, but when important decisions about security are taken in Europe, we are going to sit in the hall. It's not satisfying for a country with our geographic location and with our ambitions. I totally agree with the situation description that Godal presented, but I think it's a little question in the air, and that's: What does the Labour Party want to do with this? What concrete steps can be taken by the Labour Party to enable our country to participate fully in the fourth division in this area in Europe? That it's serious, I think we can all be a few when we see that Solana goes from a post as Secretary General of NATO to the job he's been given now. Then go to the Defense. One of the main problems for our defense is the lack of consistency between the paintings of the Stortinget and the funds that are being cleared. The ambition for international operations is great, and we all share it. However, it will require resources if the defence is to be able to do what is necessary, including: to get recruited – that we have as many as possible in the first 12 months of service. Last year, the Right, when we negotiated with the Government, set as an absolute requirement that she should stand on saying her own long-term message in the budget. And my question to Bjørn Tore Godal is: Will the Labour Party, when they are about to negotiate with the Government, want the Government to say that it has a long-term message in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1097	What will the Labour Party do to safeguard the Norwegian interests in a situation where the EU becomes more important in foreign, security and defence policy? I have to refer to the post, and am pleased that the representative Ingvald Godal agreed with the main content of it. I understand in the extension of his question that he is waiting for the next EU debate. I think it's a more long-term canvas to bleach than he can count on representatives of the Workers' Party in the pulpit here today saying it's coming on a specified date. I think it will be a result – in all political parties – of a broader development of foreign and security policy in Europe that I tried to explain. And what's the time perspective in such a context, I think it's completely impossible for anyone to take their stand here today. I record that no political parties have put that question to the fore. But that there will be a theme for upcoming party meetings in very many parties and for years to come is raised above any doubt. The most important thing we can do in the meantime is to ensure that the Government does its job to ensure that we come out at least as well with cooperation mechanisms with the EU as with those we have today in the Western Union. And that's in itself a pretty big challenge, but I've gradually become reasonably sure that here the government stands on what it can, given the limitations that the referendum creates. Of course, we cannot demand full rights in decisions that will ultimately be EU's in terms of its own policy. The budget negotiations with the Government will not be conducted from this pulpit today, I think, by some representatives of the Workers' Party, as little as the government's representatives will contribute to it. But, of course, the situation of the defence budget lies in the fact that all parties on the Stortinget, not least the government parties and the Labour Party, must feel an obligation to live up to the framework requirements of the long-term programme for the current period. We have to put a lot of work into that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1108	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1111	I want to address two key political issues that are closely linked, and that were raised by opposition leaders Thorbjørn Jagland and Jan Petersen in yesterday's debate. One is Norway's way into the information and knowledge society; the other is the need for renewal and modernisation in the public sector. These challenges are also addressed by the Left and the Government. And even if we don't have all the answers – who does? – I would like to stress that we have made important contributions. 20 years ago, we had a corner stone company in a community in the East that was big in the production of rubber boots and car tires. In Finland, they had a similar company, which also produced car tyres and rubber boots. Today, the Norwegian company, Viking Ashim, is closed. The Finnish company, Nokia, has had an adventurous growth. Nokia is the world’s largest mobile phone producer and has a research budget larger than all public research appropriations in Norway combined. Of course, we can discuss infinitely why it's been like this. Nevertheless, it must be important to ensure that from now on Norway succeeds in conversion and innovation in a completely different way from what we have done in recent decades. We are simply facing the following brutal choices: either strong commitment to innovation now, or goodbye to the welfare state as we know it, some years in time. If our successors are to have a debate about distribution in this room in 15 years, we who sit here today must be able to have two thoughts in our heads at the same time: distribute the values, but also create new ones. I am very pleased that the government budget has been presented, so clearly designed for innovation, among other things. by vigorously stepping up public research efforts. But let me also stress that we must have a tax system that does not punish those who create values in the small, and get jobs for themselves and someone else. There's something quite different than following the obscene demands of rich business owners and capitalists who are afraid of the wallet, as it sounds in the spells of the left. When the Workers' Party has talked about taking away the rich, they have always hit these active, innovative people in the same sling. I feel that Thorbjørn Jagland is now about to admit that it is a blind trail. The next few weeks will show how deep this recognition is. However, an innovative Norway involves much more than tax and budget spending issues. For it is fully possible to create a knowledge-based society filled with technology and competence, but without humanism. We don't want such a society. The vision must be that each of us experiences that new technological opportunities and societal changes make it easier to reach our own, and at most different, perceptions of the good life. Then we need to focus as much on the social and social aspects of the knowledge society as on the technology itself. Let me give you a very central example. The government wants the country to engage in a national language technology centre at Voss. Language technology is interesting enough in itself as an area with unprecedented nutritional potential, but there is also other reason to go into it with state resources. In a few years' time, computer tools that understand languages will shape developments in a way that we can barely understand. But without public effort now, we probably need to speak English with these computer systems. It is about national identity — ensuring that Norwegian languages become viable even in the digital world. In addition, language technology provides unique opportunities for the modernisation of general government. Think of the resources that can be transferred to provide services and services to those who need it, just by reading doctors' records and police interrogation protocols directly on a computer, and then coming out with finished text seconds later! The use of language technologies in the public sector is a natural follow-up to the ‘Simplifying Norway’ reform programme launched by the Government to convert the public sector into the information society. No one should doubt that the Left and the Government will have a strong public sector. However, it needs to be renewed — by the conversion, simplification and decentralisation of services in order to put users in the centre. And it was like music in my ears when the leader of the Workers' Party yesterday said, ‘Wealth companies — schools, hospitals and older people’s institutions — need to change. Employees must be given more responsibility and customers must be offered services that are more tailor-made precisely for them, for each individual's needs." Just this renewal of the government has started. During the next year, all state establishments shall provide service declarations to their users. We did not see such reforms when the Workers' Party was in power. Norway has every reason to look forward to meeting. It's societies that are just able to raise the broad spectrum of the population, which are best able to change and renew.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1141	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1144	It is well-informed against the forthcoming negotiations that the Sponheim Council to the degrees embraces so much of Thorbjørn Jagland's contribution yesterday. State Council Sponheim said that conversion and renewal are important, and we understand that it is. He also said that it is more than taxes and taxes, and we also agreed on that. But there is also something more than a language laboratory at Voss. We're in a situation where Kværner Oil and Gas today announces the cancellation of 1,500 people in Norway and 1500 in England. This shall be done during the fall and in the New Year. We are also in the situation that more and more offshore companies are announcing cancellations, it is Aker Stord and Aker Verdal. And at the top of the whole, we have the yard industry that's in word-to-word drought. At that time, I had expected the State Council of Sponheim to be more specific about how to meet these challenges. Should it be possible to convert these large, heavy enterprises into something new, there must be a government commitment to. Just sitting and waiting for an order to happen happens to be far from correcting the situation. For it are the orders that are out on offer, too few. My question is: When will the government take an initiative to try to get the offshore projects that they managed to stop quickly and elegantly six and a half years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1155	I have no problem admitting what the representative Opseth here says about my commendation to the head of the Workers' Party for very much of what was said in the post yesterday. I must say that the leader of the Workers' Party is at his best when he draws visions of how he sees the great changes in society, and I share very much of what he expresses in such a context. I was prepared, of course, that this occasion also had to be used to talk about the obvious problems we have in parts of our industry – although we can be happy that this happens at a time when the labour market shows an ability to absorb people who need to change jobs. In fact, the tragic situation with significant redundancies that are coming to light today is not going to be like the Christmas evening of the bitch. Already in the last national budget that Mr Opseth had to present as a member of the government, there was a huge need for capacity reduction in this industry – and at that time without any specific measures being proposed, because it was necessary to have a capacity adjustment of this industry as adventurous levels of investment that we have had for a period in the North Sea could not continue. So it's no surprise that some people – but it's tragic for each of them – will have to change jobs in the next few years. But the crucial thing for us is to ensure that these get an opportunity to find other jobs, and that will be necessary. But neither must we be so low that the market dumping that this industry is experiencing becomes so deep that we have neither capacity nor capable people to take more control of the normal level in the future, and the market outlook that is. That is why the Government has proposed important measures in the budget, including: we are in dialogue with some communities and companies about how we can have tailor-made arrangements for those people who will need to be on leave but who will have to return to do important tasks when the market rises. We are now beginning to see important projects that are emerging, and in addition, the Government has granted money to comprehensive technology programmes to enable these companies to be converted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1163	The council began with an example from my own state, Viking Deck in Ashim, and what is of importance for innovation and further development. A good question will then be: What is it that entrepreneurs and industrialists should create businesses, set up businesses in Norway, expand it, hire more people and stay here in the country? It's a separate debate. However, one element of this is the form field and the legislative follow-up that is specifically imposed on our small and medium-sized enterprises. We have approx. 30 laws and 12 000 regulations to which these many enterprises must relate. This free work is a burden on them in the order of 30 billion kroner every year. I remember that the Council of State on behalf of the Left in the election campaign for the election in 1997 appointed itself as the defender of these companies. Now something really was going to happen. But what has happened in practice? You can ask these thousands of thousands of business leaders if something has happened. Nothing! The central statistical agency shows that the number of forms last year increased from 600 to 640, and so far this year there is about the status quo when you peel off the cosmetics. The government has now launched a programme for a simpler Norway. Coordination of equivalency information from enterprises, coordination and simplification in a number of other areas is required. But the business leaders are skeptical. The screenplay is a ten-headed troll, and if you cut off one head, you have nine left. What will the Council of State be able to guarantee or promise these small business managers? Will we be able to see any change that really matters at the end of this ageing period?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1174	The representative Hedstrøm raises the timely question: what do we need to do to get more innovation and get more new businesses, which we need? The government recently presented a report that shows that over the next 15 years, we need 200,000 new businesses to take care of the development of wealth in this country. It's a formidable task. We need more innovators, and more businesses need to be born than it is now. Obviously, given the new technology that we are now seeing changes so much, public needs to play a more active role in innovation processes than we have seen in the past. Traditional liberalist thinking, for which the Progress Party and Hedstrom stand, that this organizes the market, is wrong with the new technology, where there is so much risk, and where it is necessary that the public and the community actively contribute. So here I invite the Advance Party to think again about how the public can get a different and new role in getting to the innovation that is necessary. Then I agree with the representative Hedstrom that the form field is a ten-headed troll. There must be a war against this troll on very many fronts. That work has been initiated by the Government through the ‘Simplifying Norway’ project. It does not stop reorganising and coordinating forms – although we are now doing so extensively through the Task Register in Brønnøysund. We also have to do something about the reason for the forms. For decades we have had an administrative culture in Norway where we have had an honest, genuine and well-motivated regulatory need, created a regulatory framework to fill it, and this has increased without being critically asked if there is any of the old things we no longer need, so today Norwegian companies have 12,000 rules and regulations to deal with. Here, the Government of the ‘Simplifying Norway’ programme has launched a major effort to simplify it. It's demanding. It is demanding even to get an overview of what exists, even for a large-scale agency, but we are actually doing this, and it has a high priority. This is a hard work that the Government has started, led by the Prime Minister, who will go over two years, and if the representative Hedstrøm makes sure that the government gets on for the next two years, I will promise that we will deliver results in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1183	State council Sponheim had a few descriptions of what he heard yesterday. He talked about that it was like music in his ears to listen to Jagland. Then I came to think that I think it's time for Sponheim to get a couple of new CDs. He said that Jagland is at his best when he's visionary. I assume that Sponheim then compares with when he is not visionary, and then of course I fully agree with Sponheim. I think it might be a little bit more difficult when Sponheim is going to do the details with Opseth. The Norwegian stock market and, to the extent that the entire Norwegian business ownership market has been highly politicised, as can be seen in the Dagbladet today. When the pace of the flow of industrial leaders on the way to Stortinget has become so high that they get into jogging shoes, it indicates that it is time that there might be a change in this. The Swedish Minister of Business probably has a point in what he said not very long ago. One of the major problems that Sponheim has pointed out for two years, which I fully agree with, and to the extent that what is contained in the government budget in this area, offers perhaps a change in attitude across the Government as regards the value of Norwegian ownership, because the draft budget that exists has at least elements that point forward in my view. But I could imagine getting Sponheim's assessment of the fact that the Workers' Party in the presented document, which is the basis for negotiations, points to the need for $2 billion in increased taxes, so that we know what areas it is about. If that's the same option that the Workers' Party had last year, we know exactly what it's about, because it added up to NOK 2 billion. There was increased taxes on wealth, it was the shipping tax, it was the removal of the ceiling on the sharing model, it was the identification rules, etc. Does the Minister of Industry think this will increase the opportunities for entrepreneurs and Norwegian ownership, or will it go the other way?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1194	I can share the experience, observation and participation of the representative Gabrielsen on how we are now being flooded by a rate of change in Norwegian companies, how new structures are being put around in all the boardrooms and director's offices about how to see the future business world. This is going so fast, and the amount of information about what's happening is so great that it's a bit of a demanding job for a Minister of Industry to keep track of everything that's going on, and accept everyone who comes and tells and knows what's going to happen in the future. It tells us that the impact of the globalised economy, which we've been talking about for a long time, is really about to get into our everyday life, so that we experience it and get newspaper headlines about it every day. There's probably no way back. We will experience that ownership is more intertwined across borders. Not only do we experience more foreign owners getting behind Norwegian businesses increasingly. This medal also has another side, that Norwegian companies are increasingly out shopping. They have expectations of being treated properly where they come, just as we have to accept foreign investors coming here. But we can't live with being a nation that comes to the point that big, important businesses, business areas and industrial locomotives no longer have a head office in Norway. I think you can ask the question, is it a nation if you only have branches? That is why it is so important in critical and strategically important areas for a country that we take care of our head offices. There's probably Gabrielsen and I and the big companies have a slightly different view of instruments. Unfortunately, over 10 – 20 – 30 years, many of the heavy private ownership environments have been weakened to such an extent that, among other things. a blocking state ownership may be important for precisely preserving such effects as we see that this government is willing to apply to important enterprises. As far as negotiations are concerned, I would just like to repeat what previous speakers have said today, that it will take place behind closed doors, and not from the pulpit of the Stortinge. But Gabrielsen can be sure that no matter who we negotiate with, the government will be concerned with a good business policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1203	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1206	The government says in the guise that it ‘will invest in the development of new renewable energy sources and work to limit the growth of electricity consumption’. This has also been followed up in the draft State budget, with a huge focus on support measures for investment and the use of renewable energy sources, and, of course, a significant increase in the electricity charge. It is hardly surprising to anyone that the Progress Party is less concerned about energy consumption in Norway than the other parties. All parties outside of us have, over many years, been aiming to limit or reduce the consumption of energy, and the result has been the exact opposite. So why should we limit consumption? Is it so wrong that in this cold country we should use some energy to feel good and warm in winter? Is it so wrong that we nordics use our natural advantages to compensate some of our natural disadvantages? No, it was just supposed to be missing. It's created a myth that we nordics are some great wasters of energy. This isn't right. An overview from the NVE, corrected correctly for climate differences, shows that energy use in Norwegian households is actually less than in Denmark, for example, and also less than the average in EU countries. Is there perhaps a shortage of energy that makes the government think we should reduce consumption? That can't possibly be the reason. Today, Norway appears to be an energy storm power of 30 pst. of the total European hydropower production, we have 45 pst. of the gas reserves and 75 pst. of oil reserves. So to put the whole thing in perspective, we're less than 1 pst. by the population of Europe! For example, the fact that we have had to import large amounts of energy from Denmark in recent years is not because we lack energy, but it is because of a lack of political will and power in this room to exploit the enormous energy resources we have. We have to remember that large parts of our power generation go to the power-intensive industry. It has just been the availability of power at a competitive price that has been the direct cause of our having created valuables that have created many viable industrial communities across the whole country. On the basis of this, the progress party will distance itself from the hysteria that has been created that we are wasting so much energy in Norway. We do not want to spend billions of taxpayers' money on measures designed to change energy consumption, but to stimulate free competition between energy sources, so that the energy market works as best as possible for consumers. Nor will the Progress Party support anti-competitive measures that prevent a free energy market. In view of this, it is not appropriate for us to support the announced increase in the electricity charge, and the Government's proposal to compensate for the increase in the minimum deduction will again affect those who have the least, namely the minimum pensioners, who do not benefit from this deduction. Instead, the Progress Party will contribute to increased energy production by facilitating the conditions for those who want to expand gas power in Norway. It's per. Today, the only realistic response that can meet the increased demand for power that we have had and still have. This is also good environmental policy, as it will push for the import of highly polluting coal power from Denmark. The government's huge commitment to renewable energy, which will give us 3 TWh by 2010, will not even cover today's deficit. Nor will the wind turbines be able to stand on their own economics in the foreseeable future. The same applies to waterborne heating, as in a country such as Norway, with widespread settlement, will require huge infrastructure costs and therefore will never be profitable. This whole bet cannot be characterised as anything but a precious air lock.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1224	Despite the reactions of both the media and the opposition after the census and the budget proposal, the government is actually putting forward the efforts of the families of children in the 2000 budget proposal. The number of the throne included: the extension of family allowances to 18 years of age and the introduction of autonomous entitlements to birth and adoption allowances for fathers, the increase of cash support rates to 1998 levels and incentives for the creation of new kindergartens. The government has a holistic approach to family policy. The best solutions are not in either, but in both. Different families have different needs. And after a few years with a strong focus on the time clamps that many small children's families experience, we are now taking an important step for families with older children. After major post-natal investment in pension schemes that most mothers have benefited from, we also take an important step especially in relation to fathers. Child welfare at the age of 18 has been a strong demand for reform. Today, child abuse stops at a time when most young people go to secondary school and live at home. Lonely caregivers mark the combination of high costs and child-rearing loss particularly well. Therefore, both the political party here at Stortinget, various organisations and, not least, parents have called for the extension of child rights, most of them within a proven neutral framework. The government proposes to include the child-restraint allowance and to extend the child-restraint allowance to 18 years. The care allowance has the same objectives as child benefit: to compensate for additional costs related to child care. The Government’s proposal is therefore a simplification of the transfer arrangements to the families of children. I have not recorded any widespread resistance to the principle of an extension of child rights, but many have had questions related to the model that the Government has presented. I am overconfident that an extension of family allowances is an important family policy measure, although there will be a smaller reduction in annual payments until children are 16 years of age. I am proud that the Government is now making proposals on the self-right to raise birth and adoption money for fathers. For many years this has been a demand from various sources, and there has been a broad political agreement that it is an important and necessary measure to strengthen fathers' participation in the care of their children. In several cases, this has been pointed out in public statements. In dealing with the 1996 welfare report, a majority agreed to ask the Government to make a proposal that fathers should be given the independent right to raise awareness. Previous governments have not found any room in the budget to propose this right, and I'm glad that the center government has now prioritised this. It is an important measure to stimulate more fathers to take more care of their own children, and is at the same time an important policy on gender equality. I can also state that we are honouring our promise and the agreement between the Government Party, the Right and the Progress Party to raise the cash support rates again to 1998 levels. This is a major challenge to give children's families greater choice. Optionality also implies that there are nursery places for those who want it. The extension of kindergarten is therefore necessary. Kindergarten policy is a central part of the government's family policy, and we'll be able to discuss it when we present the kindergarten message in the fall. Over time, a central government agenda will not coincide entirely with the agenda of its top-right or left-hand sides. It's in a central government's nature and it's an expression of the intermediate position we have in Norwegian politics. That is why we also have two years behind us, with the support of various parties to the Government's proposals. The fact that real negotiations have now been organised between the Centre Party and the Labour Party on the state budget for 2000, gives us the chance to highlight important issues that have not been at the top of their priorities on the right. The distribution policy has focused on us. I would like to stress that it is also a question of a distribution policy in an international perspective. The most important thing we politicians can do at the entrance of the next millennium is take care of our children and the next generation. The Government and the Christian People's Party will do so, including through a change in family policy, where children and parents get more time together. An offensive policy in this area must be combined with better organisation to ensure that fathers also spend more time with their children. I hope we can have a debate on this which could be somewhat more nuanced into the future than it has been when we look back. There will be ideological distinctions in family policy, but so much for example. cash support cannot be an obstacle to our taking joint radical action in the field of equality policy, among other things. through changes in equality laws. Taking care of the next generation also applies to our new countrymen and women. Respect for different cultures is important, but when culture collides with clear human rights, we must call for caution. Forced marriage is unculture, and here we have to join with the young people who are forced or trained in something they don't want to do. I expect that we have a mass mass behind us in relation to fighting this unculture, which is actually more widespread than everyone wants to see.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1247	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1250	The Trontal signals a shift in Norwegian politics. After two years of right-wing and progressive party policy, we can now have a budget towards a more social democratic policy, a policy where we can see that fair distribution is central, and not least a better policy for families with children. It is positive that the centre parties have learned that in many areas the development is being carried out incorrectly with the Right and the Advance Party. The central government has wanted to give small children's families more freedom of choice. But I want to ask the Council of State if the vast majority of the grandchildren have actually got it. Freedom of choice only exists when there are several choices. Many young children’s parents do not feel that they have any choice because there is no nursery space, or because the price is often too high. The school leisure system has also become more expensive. Therefore, it is not acceptable for the Government to cut the care allowance — yes, to contribute to a deterioration in the situation of many families with young children. According to the department's own figures in the budget is actually 14 pst. by private kindergartens in a sustained economic imbalance. That means that as many as 11,000 places are at risk of closure. I want to challenge the Council of State on this: what will the Council of State actually do for the private kindergartens? How does the Government propose that the parental payment in kindergartens can go down? And does the Council of State think that freedom of choice for the families of young children is real today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1261	I would first like to stress that there is no social-democratic policy this government is promoting, neither in the throne nor in the budget we have presented. It's center policy. And when it comes to family politics, it is not the social democrats who have been with and supported under this government. It is the right side of Norwegian policy, for they have also been concerned with the freedom of choice. Today we don't have full freedom of choice yet, because we don't have enough kindergartens. That's why the government is also making an offensive effort to get more kindergartens, and we've put incentives in this budget just to get it out. But when it comes to the full freedom of choice, it's the social democrats who brake, while the other parties, with the exception of SV, want to assert that one has freedom of choice. Therefore, it is important that we introduce a cash support before we have fully developed kindergartens, so that we do not have an overcapacity. So the representative, Bekkemelm Orheim, said that we cut out the parental deduction and thus make the economic situation difficult for the families with children. That's not what we're doing. We're doing a tax haven that makes things easier in the tax system, while at the same time the total sum, just over $2 billion, goes back to the families of children through cash withdrawals in the family allowance. So there's no way that we're going to make the situation worse for families with children, but if we're going to bring child welfare to 18 years without spending more money on child welfare today than we did last year, it's actually going to be a little less per. Family to children is 16 years old, so they get full coverage when children are 16 years old. I believe that the vast majority of families with children in Norway today tolerate the slight drop to the age of 16 when they have two full years of child-rearing when their children cost the most. When it comes to private kindergartens...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1271	Time's up!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1274	State councils shall be given a new opportunity in the case of private kindergartens. My line is essentially in that direction. But first I'm allowed to say that I'm also happy that the government is now proposing to extend child welfare to 18 years, which the Progress Party proposed for the first time 15 years ago. The Council of State also expresses its satisfaction that she is now following up the cash support agreement to extend the cash support to the amounts that we initially agreed on. However, I am a little disappointed that the Council of State also angles the cash support agreement in terms of the relationship we agreed on when we were to rectify the competitive conditions between private and public kindergartens. I see that the Council of State indicates that there will be a pediatric report. Nevertheless, I think that is a defensive position in relation to the 2000 budget. I see that the Council of State indicates that there has been an increase in operating grants for both private and public kindergartens, which, of course, does not reduce discrimination. It also refers to the incentive subsidy for the construction of new kindergartens, which also does not reduce discrimination but may reinforce. I also see that the Workers' Party is very concerned about this with new kindergartens and at the same time is concerned about the private kindergartens that are now in danger of being closed down. This is a paradox. If it is the case that 11,000 kindergartens are at risk in private kindergartens, it is strange to me that we are going to add new funds to new kindergartens in that situation. My question to the Council of State is simply: is it the case that the Council of State and the Government have a hidden strategy in relation to kindergarten and family policies that has a content that suggests that, once a majority has been obtained together with the Right and the Advance Party in terms of cash support, a person should turn to the Workers' Party in order to achieve a kindergarten policy that is moving towards compulsory kindergarten, and go away from previous positive signals to the private kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1283	No, the government has no hidden kindergarten strategy. We have a pretty open strategy when it comes to kindergartens and further development, and it's obvious that if we're going to have full kindergarten coverage here in Norway, that all the parents who want the children of their children to have a place in kindergarten, will have to build one more places. What we've seen is that in the years it's been proposed and adopted incentives for the construction of new kindergartens, there's been a lot more kindergartens than one has had in the years that you haven't had such incentives. That's what we from the Government would give priority to in the budget that we presented this time, because we need new places to get full coverage. When it comes to the situation of private kindergartens, the problem is not primarily the state initiative, but the problem is that municipalities do not equally support private kindergartens. That's what we're going to do in the kindergarten message before Christmas. Private support is not provided by the state. One can do so on a case-by-case basis, as we proposed in the revised national budget, but one must not adopt such a policy where the state takes responsibility for the private sector, while the municipality takes responsibility for the public sector. It's a signal to the municipality that one doesn't need to build kindergartens, because if we don't, the state takes responsibility for everything. That's why we have to look at that problem in a larger context where we look at the overall situation, where we look at what the municipality should be obliged to do, and where we also look at what the state should be obliged to do. In the kindergarten message, we will make concrete suggestions on how to strengthen private kindergartens. I have to honestly admit that I'm pleased with the commitment that the Workers' Party is also starting to show to the private kindergartens. The commitment has been stronger in this election fight than ever before. So I'm going to believe that when the kindergarten messages come, there'll be quite a deal in this room to have a common strategy, common policies, both for private and municipal kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1290	I am not surprised at the reasoning that is being read in the Government's message. It says that we have many vacant kindergartens, so we should build more and stimulate them. So, what's bad is going to be worse. The government also writes in the notice that it has now had very high housing prices for a long time, so it will increase the housing tax. It's the same reasoning that goes back, so at least it's something that's going on in the Government's message. If it makes sense, you can discuss it, but at least it's a reasoning in it: what's bad is going to get worse. I had a post this morning addressed something to the Prime Minister, where I pointed out that the cooperative constellation or reasoning on block independence is now obviously abandoned since the Prime Minister argues that you must first go to the Workers' Party, and if the Workers' Party says no, and only if the Workers' Party says no, you can go to other parties. At this time in the morning I had unfortunately not read the newspaper. It's a neglect. The leader of the Christian People's Party confirms that she is now closing the door for cooperation with the Right in and outside government until 2001, and for an unlimited duration beyond 2001. With an unlimited duration beyond 2001! It also states that the leader of the Christian People's Party will not respond to «if it is for the Christian People's Party as a centre party that can now be as natural to cooperate in government with the Workers' Party as with the Right». I just want to ask the leader of the Christian People's Party if she now has an answer to this question as far as the day we've come. Because I think there are some Christian People's Party voters, if not others, who wonder a little about the answer – whether it is in the pact with the national meeting decision the party voted on in 1997. There are always voters who are interested in such things in relation to the lot. It has something to do with trust, I can use an expression like ‘trust policy’. It was a time when the Christian People's Party also recognized itself in that concept of Sjur Lindebräck's time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1297	I must honestly admit that I am pleased that Per-Kristian Foss had not read the daily newspaper before taking a line on the Prime Minister, so that the Prime Minister wouldn't answer an interview that was done with me. It's much easier for me to do it myself. I also reacted to a part of what was in the newspaper, but I didn't think we should pay so much attention to it, because I don't remember much of what was said there. What I said to the Newspaper was that when the Christian People's Party is now in government with two other parties, it's not so interesting to discuss new parties into that government. I stand for that. When it comes to future cooperative constellations, it is obvious that in the same way as the national meeting of the Christian People's Party in 1997 adopted a cooperative statement, it will also be added in 2001 to a discussion on who is naturally to cooperate with during the next enlargement period. But it would have been crazy of me as a party leader to start locking up a pattern today when it comes to that discussion. It's not always what you can read in the papers, it's an equally good statement of what you've said. I think that maybe Per-Kristian Foss has also experienced sometimes. Otherwise, I would like to stress that the block independence of this government is actually at stake. In the previous two budgetary proposals we have received here in the Stortinget, one, which I think is quite a lot of people have said in this Chamber both today and yesterday, first went to the Labour Party. The Labour Party said yes two times before you started discussing the content, this time they don't. Therefore, it is also natural for the Government to start negotiations with the Labour Party. So you get a look, which I've also heard others say here before, what's going on. If one comes to a result that both the Labour Party and the Government are satisfied with, we have a solution. Of course, if you do not get a result, you go to the other block to find a solution with them. It has something to do with the block independence's dynamics, which the government has said it wants to stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1306	It is not the President's job to correct any errors that a council member might have to say, but she believes that the council was injured to say that the Workers' Party had twice said yes to cooperation, while she thought no.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1309	Then I said wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1314	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1317	With regard to the last line change, perhaps the Council of State was more concerned with its dreams than what was the reality. The government's census mentions nothing of Nordic cooperation. On the other hand, what is stated in the census is: ‘The emphasis is on further developing cooperation with Russia’. The relationship with Russia is obviously important for Norway. Involvement of Russia in a committed European cooperation must be maintained as an overall objective despite or precisely because of the uncertainty we are experiencing today. Baltic Sea cooperation is valuable because it involves all reform countries around the Baltic Sea, including Russia. Barents cooperation is a special Norwegian but also a Nordic contribution to creating new networks and cooperation projects across the old East-West divide. Life years are developing unevenly, and there is a deep prosperity gap between North-West Russia on one side of the border and the Nordic countries on the other. The forthcoming enlargement of the EU involves more changes than most of us are aware of today. A successful enlargement process will benefit stability in Europe and hopefully strengthen Europe's contribution to the world society. An EU made up of a twenty member state in the future needs to rely on more extensive decentralisation and delegation. Some questions will be too big for the nation states, nor will they hear at home at a transnational level. Rather, they will belong to the natural field of action of regional cooperation organisations. The Nordic Council is such a forum. There are great expectations for the budget negotiations between the Labour Party and the centre parties that will begin tomorrow. There are two main areas that are important for the Workers' Party. One is that the tax system seeks to balance the differences between people and that those who are the richest in this country should contribute more to the community than they do today. There is also a need for tight tax gaps that provide opportunities for tax adjustments. The Labour Party will have a tax reform for them with the lowest incomes, so that their freedom of action increases. It means tax relief for the lowest income. The second is to make public services so good that they meet the individual’s needs and thus do not have to be bought out of Community solutions. I think most people know what the tax revenue goes to. They go, as we all know, to schools, roads, kindergartens, health services, hospital operations, etc. But it's in the design of the welfare services we have two choices. One way, which the right parties like best, is through great tax relief to buy out of the community, where each one is successful. Then we have the other way, not the third way, but the other way – freedom within the community, which the Workers' Party wants, and which I think the Centre parties will also feel most comfortable with. Budgetary negotiations must result in an improved economy for municipalities. The municipalities are the foremost producers of the services we all want. But there are differences in welfare that we must aim to change. I'll take an example in the care of the elderly. In some municipalities, very needy elderly people living at home, down to 10 hours of help a week. In other municipalities, over 100 hours are given. The proportion also varies greatly. For an income of around NOK 100000, the excess varies from NOK 50 to NOK 1000 per person. months. We can't have it that way. Services must be tailored to the individual’s needs, but the services provided may not vary so much in price. The battle in Stortinget in the harvest will be about how the taxes are to be distributed – who will get more tax, who will get less. The fight will focus on the direction in which we need to further develop public service provision. The working party shall do its own and hopefully the rest of the centre parties. But we all have a responsibility for what we do, also for what we leave to do. But even in a encyclopedia, work comes before success. That's the way it is in politics, too. If there is a budgetary agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre Parties, it will be a victory – a victory for justice and a victory for well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1343	The persuasion debate tends to be called the opposition's debate. The most irreverent characteristic I have ever heard of this year's debate on the throne came from a representative of the fourth state power this morning. He noted that on the door of the staging hall there was the sign “Minnetale” and suggested that there had to be an announcement of the second day’s throne debate, namely a memorial of the opposition. It is also the case that we currently have a prime minister who is particularly well qualified to give such speeches. In fact, the alarming thing at the debate on the throne is that the Labour Party and the government parties insist that a completely new situation has arisen in Norwegian policy. At the same time, both parties insist that none of them have changed the least. The Prime Minister explains the Government's shift in line with the fact that only «same procedure as last year» has been followed. To make the point even clearer, he adds the same procedure as every year. So there's nothing new from the government, politically well to notice. The head of the Workers' Party says that there has been a whole new situation, because the new head of the Centre Party has declared that the Centre Party wants to cooperate with the Workers' Party. In fact, the Center Party has declared this inconceivable times. If it's not new, it's that statement. The new is, in fact, in that we have held the last election this millennium a few weeks ago. In that election, the interesting new situation occurred that the three government parties and the Workers' Party together have less than half of the voters behind them. At the 1997 rollover election, which led to a government change from the magic number 36.9, the same batches had 61 pst. of the voters behind them. Now it was claimed not only by the government parties and the Workers' Party, but also by many see-seekers in the political environment, that the natural centre of gravity of Norwegian policy should lie in what is called the point of intersection – it is an interesting geometric image – between the centre and the Workers' Party. In the last election of this millennium, we had a lower turnout than we've had since the 1920s. It was only so far that more than half of the voters found reason to make use of their voting rights. Now most people have agreed that it must be interpreted as a feedback from the voters to the political system that there are problems in seeing the differences between the political parties. There is an increasing number of voters who have problems seeing it do something from or to whether they use their voting rights or let it be used. The most worrying thing about the figures is that the preliminary polls indicate that of those who are under 30 years of age, there is much more than half that this time voted with the home page party. If the problem is that it is difficult to see the alternatives, you have to wonder about the reasoning both from the Government and from the main opposition party when they use the persuasion debate to race with each other in being embraced. It should be borne in mind that, if there is a continuing situation — and some suggest that there may yet be something in the direction of a majority government, even if the Labour Party and the Centre parties do not have a majority of voters behind them — it will help to increase interest in the elections in two years’ time. Rather, it will be a clear signal back that you are not really very interested in what the voters mean at all. In fact, there is much in the formation of county councils and local authorities in this country that suggests that the political system is becoming less and less interested in what the voters think. For all you need soon for the voters is to increase the batch support as long as it is related to the number of votes. The actual picture in Norway after the last municipal elections – and here I also refer to all polls that now ask how voters would have voted if it was a big shot – confirms the picture and reinforces it further. While, through their vote, the voters clearly state that they want to move Norwegian policy to the right on the political scale, the central government is concerned about how to move it to the left. If the Centre and the Workers' Party were to agree – and now they have sold so many both skins and bodies that it must be done well that they do not have to agree – what is the situation that has really been created in terms of the interaction between the voters and the political parties? Many years ago, Torolf Elster, who was then a kind of chieftain of the Norwegian Workers' Party, when one had a discussion about what socialism is, said that socialism is the policy of the Norwegian Workers' Party at all times. The central parties have long since been on a similar line: the central policy is the policy that the central parties always administer. It will then certainly be produced afterwards so that any budgetary agreement is a victory for both parties. Now, the concept of socialism has not been so high in the course of the past, hardly enough social democracy, so it will, in the end, simply be called: Labour Party politics is the policy that the central government, with the support of the Workers' Party, is pursuing. There is reason to be concerned about the legitimacy of our democratic system and our people's rule. It should occupy us in this hall at the millennial turn. I think the progress that the Right had in the last election is a pretty clear feedback from the voters that you appreciate that some political parties are trying to talk about politics and not about cooperative constellations, that some parties are trying to chime out a profiled political message. The profiled political message from the Right is that into the next millennium, there is one challenge that overshadows everyone else for the Kingdom of Norway, and that is to take care of human resources. We are in a situation where we are in the process of experiencing a dramatic deficit in skilled labour in more and more areas. So far, this has been met by a peculiar alliance between the Progress Party and the Labour Party/LO, which at least will not know of any labour immigration. Think about it! The reason why education policy is the key to future Norway – and I think that the voters have given the Right clearly in this election – is precisely that it is where the challenge has to be solved. This challenge cannot wait until we have completed the care and psychiatry plans and what it must now be of good purpose. This challenge cannot wait for the reason that we have a clear feedback from those who are going to support the skills and qualifications system in this country, namely the teachers, that the school is no longer an attractive and interesting job. Two thirds of teachers in today’s Norwegian secondary school will have fallen below the age limit over the next 10–15 years. If we continue to stimulate people to park themselves as early as possible through favourable pension schemes, it's going to go even faster. We're in a situation where even half of those who take the cand.mag. exam in historical-philosophical subjects go in completely different directions than the school. This is a ambiguity message. Those who say that the problem is that someone blackpaints the situation in school, don't know what they're talking about. It is the school itself that gives a clear feedback to the political system: if you do not now reverse the trend, it will be too late. This is what Norwegian policy should be about – not who will cooperate with who.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1369	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1373	The representative's salary kept as usual an article with a bit of rhetoric. He demanded that we talk more about politics, but I didn't hear so much about the Right Policy in the Post on Wage. But he'll have the opportunity now. I'd like to challenge him on school policy, because the Right strongly focused on school in the election campaign. It is the municipality that grants money to the school, so if you are going to have a bet at the school, you have to give money to the municipalities. In particular, money must be allocated to the municipalities when you have so strongly called for teachers to be paid more, and that is what the Right profile has been on. According to the Central Association of Municipalities, which is the organisation of municipalities in Norway, 1999 was the year of the 1990s when the municipalities had the worst economy. That is why one of the demands of the Labour Party in the budget negotiations is that we should get about. One billion more to the municipalities. We proposed the same thing last year, but we did not get a pass. What did the Right last year? Yes, they proposed a billion dollars less to the municipalities than the government proposed. So, in total, there is a difference of approximately NOK 2 billion for the municipalities between Right's policy and the Labour Party's policy. So my question to the representative's pay must then be: Will there be more money or will there be less money for the school if you give less money to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1382	The Labour Party went to the elections this time on the slogan: ‘Work and education should pay off.’ It was true that they forgot the slogan at the moment they had adopted it, because no one heard anything more about it through the election campaign, and at least there was no attempt at concreteising it. It is quite misleading to draw a line between the general appropriations for the municipal sector and the challenges facing the school and all the other sectors. 1 billion kroner from or to general appropriations for the local government sector will make a microscopic difference in ensuring a targeted bet on, for example: education. Of course, the outcome of wage negotiations between the social partners is not taken into account by means of provisions for general local economy. The right-hand manager said clearly what the Right has undertaken with commitments in that context in his statement yesterday. He said that we have clearly stated how the State, as an employer, should behave if one wants to solve the government's tasks in view of the future in terms of education policy. And we're prepared to take the necessary consequences of it when the time comes that we know how the consequences are. The discussion about whether the Workers' Party refers to DKK 1 billion more than others to the local economy may be interesting for philatelists who collect on budget, but it's a completely uninteresting discussion in relation to the challenges we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1393	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1396	As mentioned in the debate yesterday, the content of having a rich life was described. It was here, among other things. stressed the importance of being able to move safely in their surroundings without fear of abuse. No big news, but for the Workers' Party, this is central to fighting violence and crime. Fortunately, most people are not exposed to criminal acts. But for those who become it, it is a tragedy, and it creates insecurity for many more. We're going to take seriously the fear many have, justified or not, of becoming victims of crime. All work and action directed against violence and crime must be done in depth to protect and support the victims or to avoid victims of abuse against their own person or property. It is the Workers' Party's wish for a criminal policy into a new century: the victim in the centre. It can contribute to a turnaround, where the fight against crime is not only put on the agenda when serious criminal acts take place and it is only focused on the criminal and the punishment. Not to be misunderstood – the starting point of the Labour Party is that violence and crime are unacceptable and must be responded to. And here's a lot of mess. Both police, courts and criminal services must be secured and contribute to a faster criminal procedure. It is not sustainable that cases remain without police investigation, and it is not sustainable that convictions go free for a long time because they are associated with the execution of the settlement. I am convinced that this is not just about more means, but about efficiency and new procedures. However, my point with the victim in focus, or avoiding anyone becoming a victim, requires that we focus on relationships that contribute to the development of crime. Good reproductive conditions for children and young people are also good criminal policies. Fair distribution creates a society with less living conditions, prevents social tensions and exclusion with a risk of violence and crime. Bad living conditions should never be an excuse for harming others, but a society that includes equal opportunities, social protection and small differences between people provides a better basis for preventing crime. It is this whole of criminal policy that I am calling for, and where I believe that the Workers' Party and the Government's parties share common interests. All crime has to be settled. Putting the victim in the center also means focusing where the problem is greatest. I want to bring forth here violence against women and sexualized violence, forms of assault that, unfortunately, have been more or less taboo and neglected for too long. Police figures show that violence in private homes is the largest group of reported violence cases. We know that there are great numbers of darkness. This can also be linked to the issue of assault against women with different ethnic backgrounds. Crisis centres are experiencing alarming increases in the number of immigrant women seeking shelter and help. Both sexual assault and other domestic violence can be difficult to document, investigate and lead to justice. As rape reports increase, the number of cases resulting in prosecution and correction decreases. It seems difficult to reach the legal system with reports of rape. This is a threat to legal certainty. In view of the nature of the rape cases, the Workers' Party considers that it should be particularly relevant to consider time limits in this area for the time between notification of the case before the courts, corresponding to an appeal procedure in Sweden. On the steps of a new century, we are facing a society characterised by an increasing degree of internationalisation. Borders are being erased, and people and knowledge are becoming increasingly mobile. In this society, we also find a new form of crime. Crime is becoming increasingly international, more organised and, in part, more brutal. Land borders are no longer a barrier to criminals. Rather, it is a barrier to apprehension and investigation. The new crime scene we are facing requires a transformation and modernisation of our instruments. The Judicial Committee is examining these days issues relating to increased possibilities for the police to launch new investigation methods in the fight against organised crime. It's a step in the right direction. However, internationalisation also creates opportunities for increased cooperation between countries. We achieve more by engaging in commitments with others. This is a good example of police and judicial cooperation in the EU, with the Schengen and Europol cooperation. Europol is the key to more effective police cooperation in the fight against organised crime. I am pleased that the government now finally seems to have realised the same thing. We know most about crime and its causes. We also know a lot about what's going on to meet it. Now we have to take the consequences of this knowledge. We must react quickly when criminal acts are committed, and we must prevent people from becoming victims of violence and crime.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1417	‘An innovative Norway shall contribute to high value creation and well-being and facilitate work for all.’ Innovation must take place from the inside, both at school and at the individual level. More emphasis must be placed on creative activities and creativity. This is particularly important at a time when the strong information flow not only seems confusing but also accomplices many. TV watching and computer games are taking more and more of the children's time. The inherent curiosity and creativity of children must be given the best possible growth potential. This requires that adapted and differentiated training be implemented. Promoting innovation and development is an important objective of the Government. Similarly, it is important to better adapt content, forms of work and assessment in schools to the development of working and social life. The workplaces of the future have not yet seen the light of day, it is called, and information and communication technologies will be the central tool. The church, education and research committee's visit to Silicon Valley earlier this fall gave us a good insight into how innovation and business start-ups are being put on. Norway has something to learn from this, even though we can't directly transfer what the Americans have experienced, until it's our societies for different. But one thing we can absolutely learn: we need to be able to develop a culture where it is allowed to succeed and not to succeed in business start-ups. If this is transferred to school, it can easily feel like a taper stamp for students who do not get to their project in the first place. Then creativity can be killed – we can't afford that. The saying that no one dares to win, must be valid when assessing whether a project deserves to see the light of day. There are many positive measures and results in the cold water of the district package for which the Government was able to make a pass last year. But at the same time, there's a code that's pretty square. Public funds shall be used sensibly, but it shall not be such that the good will be the enemy. The central party is therefore pleased that the Government has launched a review to facilitate Norway’s clearing up the form field and other bureaucratic errors. Entrepreneurship in school will be an important contribution to making children see the value of creating their own jobs. It requires good cooperation with local businesses. The local scope for action for which curricula are available must be used much more than is the case today. Good learning requires commitment, motivation and interaction. This applies at all levels of the education chain. Getting more out of the population's talent is at least as topical today as it was when it was launched a few years ago. This permeates the notification of the reform of continuing education and training. I am very pleased that this is followed up in the throne and in the state budget. It is particularly important that adults who have not completed secondary education and are born before 1978 are now entitled to such education. This is an important prerequisite for further skills building, which is absolutely necessary for Norway to associate as a knowledge nation. Here, valuation and evidence of real competence are an important contribution. A system for this is under development. Similarly, it is important that training is well supported for adults, so that motivation for learning is stimulated. An innovative Norway is also dependent on a stronger commitment to research. The languages of the throne, the communication of research and the draft budget give clear priorities in this area. This has given very good feedback from professionals and businesses. Norway is a typical commodity nation with a high wage level. Therefore, we lose competition with other countries in the production of a number of goods. In this situation, it is important that we better facilitate the development of design. Norway is located in this area for miles away from our neighbour Finland. Why does it have to be like this? Is it oil wealth that's dulling us? Fortunately, the search for design and aesthetic subjects in higher education is on the increase. Many people say this is regrettable, as there are no jobs to get in this area. Instead, let's focus on this opportunity to create new jobs within, among other things. industrial design. This must happen at the same time as the old crafts get their cleanness, so that we can take care of our building heritage. Indeed, these subjects have suffered an unbelief in Reform 94. The awareness of Norway as a cultural nation in the broadest sense must be central to the transition to a new century and millennium. We owe this to our ancestors and descendants.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13.ana.ud1081e1438	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is immediately running. The president proposed that the meeting should now be suspended and that a new meeting be set at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
