ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e26	The background for today's case is special. We have a regulation that prohibits advertising of political messages and views of life, but we have no law prohibiting the same advertising. But the majority now want to do something about this and will legislate a ban on the advertising of life views and political messages on television, and some will also legislate against the same on radio. Following a consultation round which clearly shows that the acceptance of the view of granting access to this type of advertising is increasing, the Government has made its proposal: Yes to advertising on radio and no to advertising on television. A little less in principle you should look for a long time! For the Right, this is a simple matter. We don't see any reason to discriminate between printed media, ether mediums, electronic media or other media that exist or will appear. We also believe that the Stortinget could have waited until the Freedom of Speech Commission presented its position, and it is similar around the corner. The relationship with the Basic Law § 100, on freedom of expression, is highlighted by many hearing bodies. A recently published dissertation, Jussen’s friends 2/1999, concludes that a general prohibition would be contrary to the Basic Law. In addition, the same thesis highlights that such a prohibition would be contrary to Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Under this provision, the prohibition must be prescribed by law, the prohibition must promote a legitimate purpose and the prohibition must be necessary in a democratic society. How the courts might look at a prohibition that applies only to one of the ether mediums, television, while advertising may be broadcast on radio, over the Internet, is shown in newspapers, in advertising posters, in brochures and in all conceivable forms, becomes interesting to see. I do not feel convinced that this discrimination will survive a trial, but it remains to be seen. The right has consistently opposed a ban on advertising of life views and political messages. The right's position has not been justified by any particular desire to receive such advertising, but in a fundamental assessment of the justification of a ban in one medium against advertising for certain types of legal activity for which advertising can without difficulty be advertised in other media. The government's arguments against the advertising of life's views and policies on television are such that they should logically lead to proposals for the prohibition of any advertising of life's views and policies. It is difficult to see any reason for the reasons put forward by the Government, such as: ‘to develop an unfortunate political debate’, ‘to create a distorted picture of the political and life-seeking reality’, and to give capitalist groupings greater opportunities than others to promote their views. These arguments must also apply to most other forms of marketing policy or outlook on life. It is difficult to find factual reasons for putting television in a special position as regards the advertising of life's views and political messages, as long as such advertising is fully legitimate in all other media. Therefore, the right will vote primarily against the Government’s proposal and reject Ot.prp. No 58. However, we realize that there is no majority for this view, and find it strange that the government is making such a strong graduation of the media's pervasiveness. The arguments used by the government parties in their comments make the Government's proposal to open up political advertising in radio in a strange light. The government parties are involved in almost all the comments from the Workers' Party and SV, which distance themselves from advertising for life's views and policies in broadcasting. One first distinguishes layers at the end of the remarks, where the government parties point out that, after an overall assessment, the government opens up advertising on radio, and then that the conditions that apply to television do not apply equally to radio. One of the issues the government has been concerned with is price. Television advertising is said to be so expensive that only the richest can afford to use it. This is demonstrably wrong. In relation to how many people reach their advertising messages, it is cheaper to advertise, for example. TV2 than in many newspapers. The so-called contact price is lower for TV than in many newspapers. Even more sought is this argument in relation to local television. At the 22 local TV stations in Norway, the price of a promotional fee ranged from 500 kroner to 3000 kroner. In other words, the price level will be well below an advertisement in the locality or the price of advertising on nationwide commercial radio, for which access is open. The cost argument does not last! What about the argument that TV has so much impact? If so, why not all commercial advertisers use television — and exclusively television — in their advertising campaigns? The reason is, of course, that the actors in the advertising market know that there should be a variety of advertising channels. Newspapers, brochures, boards, etc. are all relevant media to deliver a message. There is no research supporting the claim that television advertising is so much stronger than other advertising. It is and remains a claim. Right, if our primary proposal is voted down, want to go in order for local television to also be given the opportunity to send advertisements for life's views and political messages. If this also falls, we must further reduce the requirement for a vote in principle and support the Government's proposals. And we'll make sure that this is a first step in the right direction. If you put this option on the radio now, it will probably not be long before you open it on TV for the same reason. A paradox in this matter is that the old media – the newspapers – have never been subject to this kind of regulation. It's not new media, like the Internet, but it's now a law ban on advertising on TV. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e56	SV has a principle approach to political advertising in the ether media. We are, like the Working Party, opposed to political advertising being allowed in the ether media. Some try to flag the freedom of expression as the very reason why advertising of life's views and political messages should be allowed in the ether media. But when one sees who has fronted the debate, a few have to wonder if there is not the wrong flag to lift. It's mainly advertising-funded broadcasters that have been on the front line, and we have to wonder if it's not the commercial motives that are the strong ones, because it's clear that the advertising market will increase if political advertising is allowed. The aim of freedom of expression is to ensure information and freedom of expression as a pillar of democracy. Is it, then, an attack on freedom of expression when advertising of political messages and views of life in broadcasting can still be banned? I recognize that there are shared opinions in the legal and press environment, but I just want to remind you that no one will ban the opinions, we just don't want one to have to pay to get the opinions out. If such a question of democracy is enriched and freedom of expression is strengthened by the fact that political advertising is allowed, I am sure that many agree with us. I am quite convinced that advertising in the ether media in this area will be the focus of the political debate. It will be clear to politicians who slowly walk into the sunset, while the advertising does not say anything about the party's policy. The result is a strengthening of personal focus and a simplification of the message. "Placate language", called Ola T. Loan it. Grethe Fossum is quite right when she says that the ether media are powerful media. It's just to look at how television advertising goes all the way into children's homes. And there's a difference between advertising in newspapers and on radio and TV. In the newspapers I can choose to turn on, choose not to read advertising; in front of the television I am sitting waiting for the next program and don't mind if there's an advertisement. In the newspapers, I also have a chance to protest at a reading post if I want to respond to the message in the political advertising. Editors in particular: advertising-funded broadcasters have such concern for the small parties, and have interesting political opinions in their arguments to allow political advertising – we have heard that. Yes, if this concern is an important driver, we must expect the small parties and the interesting comments to be released in normal transmission time. How a person turns around and turns around, it will allow political advertising in the ether media to favor the capitalists and resource-powers who can buy space. There is no argument that Per Roar Bredvold used, that the resource forces win in all other areas anyway. The bigger reason why they won't be winners in this game, too. The ban on political advertising in broadcasters is a political issue. Here SV is consistent, we don't want to take a first step that leads to an inevitable next step, as the government party does. We therefore vote in favour of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e73	The Left supports the Government's position on saying yes to advertising on radio politics and life views and no to advertising on the same television issues. You can then ask the question whether you can give a perfectly logical explanation of the distinction between newspapers and corresponding media on the one hand, and radio and television on the other, or, for that matter, the distinction between radio and television. The answer to that question might as well be said to be a no. It is not possible to draw up a heavy, principled distinction between ether mediums on the one hand and publications on the other, or between TV and radio. However, looking at the situation in other countries, and at different legislations in different contexts, one will at the same time discover that there is a somewhat different situation for publications on the one hand and TV and radio on the other. However, it will also be found that in some contexts radio is treated differently from television, so that there is no lack of coherence between the different assessments when considering the difference between the ether mediums — the difference between radio and television. Even if you can't give the very heavy, logical reason for it, it's in itself consistent with how it's handled in different contexts. So you're saying that there can easily be a question of the weight of different, more pragmatic arguments that have a certain element of principle. Costs and prevalence will be elements of such an assessment. When the Left believes that it may be right to discriminate between radio and television, it has, for example: the context of having a much stronger feature of local radios than of local television. I understand the point of asking questions about the relationship between P4 on one side and local TV on the other. On the other hand, radio is a much larger feature of local radios, and a good part of these local radios at least have a life-oriented justification for their activities and a character that promotes specific types of life-view. We therefore believe that it may be right to say yes to radio and no to TV. But I would also like to stress that this is a position that it might be right to characterize as a for-time point of view. These are questions that we in the Left have under assessment and consideration, and we are enough in the situation that we believe that the position of the Committee on Freedom of Speech could be an input into a debate on these issues, even though the Committee on the Rules of Procedure should not assess this directly. In this context, at least three solutions can be considered. One is that after having had radio advertising for a period of time and having received an assessment of the position of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, one would be able to say no to both. And you can also imagine the result that you're going to be at the position you're now taking, and you can imagine that you're going to say yes to both of them. In this context, radio advertising will also be a test that will enable you to gain more knowledge and broader experience before taking a final stand. There could then be questions as to why not wait until after the freedom of expression Commission gave its opinion. The answer to this is that until the 1997 elections, it was assumed that there was a ban, which was then tried and found insufficiently justified, and it may then be reasonable to have a clear situation in relation to the autumn elections and not to have it as a slightly unexplained period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e91	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e94	I was so pleased with the post held by the Hove, for he stressed that there was no principle defence or logical explanation for this assessment the Government has made, but that it has chosen to do so anyway, and then has shone a little to and re land where there is a distinction between radio and TV advertising in relation to political messages. But what I can't do anyway is the relationship to local television. It is not the case that advertising is now being put on the radio primarily to improve the economy of the radio companies, but in order to make the freedom of expression valid for at least one of the ether media. Of course, there are some economic arguments in relation to this, too, but, as I said in my post, the price of an advertising spot on local TV is between 500 kroner and 3000 kroner, so it is difficult to say that it is economic arguments that are burdensome in relation to this. But Hoves' argument was that there were so few local TV stations around the country, and it may be because of something the Storting has done in terms of facilitating local television in this country, in relation to advertising rules and a number of other things. Wouldn't it be good to give these poor 22 local TV stations – as Hove said was too few – the opportunity to have the kind of advertising we're talking about here? Otherwise I'm very happy that Hove says that this is a for-time point of view. I don't get the exact same impression when I read the notes that the other two centers have been on. But I understand that these are a little different attitudes in the government, and I'm glad that the left has at least got a partial impact on introducing advertising on the radio.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e105	What I've done is explain the Left's position on this, and it's fortunate to coincide with the Government's position. What I can say to this is essentially or logical distinction, is that there are questions about where to put the level so that something deserves such a characteristic. And it's a point that the ether media – both radio and, at least, local TV – are in the situation that they are subject to concessional provisions, permission to operate, as opposed to newspapers and magazines. And that can in itself be an argument that these media, which are subject to authorisation, are treated somewhat differently in this context than newspapers and prints otherwise. It is probably also a point that the prevalence of radio licenses, in particular in the case of local radio, is considerably more extensive than television, and I also repeat the point that some of the local radio stations have just a life-seeking purpose, so that there is a stronger element of argument at least for specific life-views, based on the radio channel's own basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e112	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e115	Until now, Norway has prohibited advertising to political parties and to life-see organisations in aether media. The ban on life-vision and political advertising is not a strange construction. Similar prohibitions exist in a number of countries with which we often choose to compare, for example, with other countries. Sweden, the United Kingdom, Ireland and Denmark. The ban on advertising of life vision and political messages on radio and television restricts freedom of expression. The restriction applies to key areas of freedom of expression, life views and political opinions, but the prohibition has limited scope on the other hand. The nature of the opinions to be sent is limited, but the prohibition is not general. This applies only to the right to place such views on the market in a specific way and in a particular medium. It distinguishes the ban on advertising of life’s views and political messages from — and makes it significantly less invasive than — e.g. the ban on tobacco and alcohol advertising, which prohibits all such advertising. Moreover, experience does not suggest that this form of advertising has a value of information that makes it an enrichment for the debate on society, rather on the contrary. Of course, others will be able to take a different view of the advertising of life’s views and political messages. I have a relaxed relationship that there are different assessments of this issue. It's a natural thing. It can be argued for advertising without resorting to the kind of high-level principles and moral reasons for allowing political advertising in the ether media that some people now do. Of course, the advertising channels see this as an opportunity both to make money and to get attention to themselves. They are fully entitled to take care of their commercial interests. But it is not credible when commercial interests are rejected as motives, and a person invokes legal interest, editorial rights, and consideration for weak groups as his prime motives. There must be something in contrast to a failure statement in relation to many of the most important tasks of the press when editors say that many weak groups do not speak in their media and in the social debate, and the most important thing that can be done to correct that relationship is to offer them paid advertising space in the ether media. There are not weak groups that fill the advertising pages in the newspapers, and I can't believe that the reason they're saving on their funds is because they're waiting for broadcasting advertising opportunities. If the media itself is very well aware of groups and views which are not reflected in the public debate and which should be given the opportunity to do so, I look forward to a wide-ranging debate on that within the press. I will promise to follow it with great interest. – This was a very good speech by the Council of State on 20 February 1999 in the Newspaper, and I can sign on to every word – which I support. It is often said by editors and perhaps especially TV 2, who have fronted this in this context, that there is only consideration for freedom of expression, and not money, which is their motive. Yes, the best way for these to document it would have been to offer plenty of free time to parties and others to come up with their messages, as we also see in the code they have in England. Until that happens, we can probably assume that the three main arguments for political advertising on radio and television are money, money and money. I will end by pointing out that it will never be relevant for the Workers' Party to do as a number of media and editors themselves have done, namely to equate journalistic work with advertising and to treat this equally in relation to freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e132	I am pleased with the outcome of the committee's consideration of the Government's proposals on advertising of life's views and political messages. In the proposal, the Government proposes a ban on the advertising of life views and political messages on television. Such a proposal is based on an in-depth assessment of several conflicting considerations, not least freedom of expression and our political and democratic processes. Today's advertising debate is important, because advertising for, among other things, political parties will address precisely the political processes, i.e. the rules governing the struggle and debate of the parties and other political organisations. The prohibition of political advertising for political parties is therefore a regulation of the instruments of political debate, without the very opinions being banned. It should then be up to the elected representatives to decide on the limits of such advertising. When the Government proposes that the ban apply only to television, it is because we believe that television has great impact and impact. Everyone knows that advertising is intended to capture viewers' attention in order to promote the sale of different goods and services. The government doesn't think such advertising will be a good way to get political messages and life views out to the television viewers. We believe that television advertising for life's views and political messages could give a simplified and distorted picture of complex and partly personal issues. Television advertising for political messages will also be able to develop an unfortunate form of political debate. I have also noticed that representatives of the advertising industry are very critical of television advertising for political messages. The Government has also come to the conclusion that the grounds for prohibiting such advertising on radio are not as strong as those relating to television. Therefore, radio advertising would not be as objectionable as similar advertising on television. In that case, we believe that the need for freedom of expression should be more weighty. Radio advertising for life's views and political messages shall also be sober and factual, and shall not violate anyone's political or religious convictions. The proposition discusses in detail the relationship with the Constitution § 100 and the European Convention on Human Rights Article 10. The Government believes that the proposal is within the framework of the Constitution, and also within the discretionary margin of the State under the Convention on Human Rights, which is now made into Norwegian law. Several have suggested that the Government should have waited until the position of the Freedom of Speech Commission existed. However, the situation is this: we have a prohibition in regulation that cannot really be enforced. There are elections for the autumn, and it may take some time, perhaps several years, before the Committee on the Rules of Procedure's investigation has been assessed and finalised. So we have to get this law in place now in good time before the 1999 elections. In addition, the majority of the population have asked the Government to return to Stortinget with a ban on life-view and political advertising. I cannot therefore see that the Government had any real opportunity to wait for the work of the Freedom of Speech Commission. I assume that the majority agrees that it is important to put in place a ban on television advertising for life's views and political messages before the election campaign starts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e149	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e153	Yes, it is quite right that the bulk of the population three years ago after the decisions that were then taken by the Market Council asked to get back this case and get a proposal that would ensure that we got a proper and proper basis for a law ban on advertising in the broadcasting sector, which was, in so far as the Senter party was very strong supporters of that time. That was not what came back from the government, it was just a proposal for a ban in relation to TV and not in relation to radio. But I have so far understood from the other debate here that there is a slightly different view within the government parties as to whether this is a principle position, or whether it is a non-princest position, i.e. a practical organisation of the political debate. It was said earlier by the representative from the Right that this is done to prevent a dam from bursting, but it is precisely the Central Party and the Christian People's Party that this time are involved in ensuring that this dam breaks down. How long has the Council of State thought that this ban now being introduced, which will only apply to TV, will last? How long will it be until we feel that it will be free from political advertising in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e162	We have promoted this bill in order to keep it. And in fact, I think the fact that we've separated television from radio makes this bill and the law more robust than if we hadn't made such a distinction. There is reason to distinguish between the power of what comes on television and what comes on the radio. I don't often quote the Business of the Day, but today I brought the editorial to Kåre Valebrokk, because I think it's particularly interesting to see what he's writing right now. And what he writes about political advertising on 3 June is, among other things,\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘It is not difficult to understand the reluctance towards television advertising. Anyone who has been in the United States in election times can be attacked by ideological constipation and chronic politician contempt after a couple of nights of paid dirty throwout of the screen. ‘... It is quite obvious that there is a big difference between advertising on television and advertising on radio, and I believe that the bill we are now promoting is more robust than if we had been in favour of a ban on both radio and TV. I can admit that it is not easy to argue in principle for that distinction, but there is a balance between different considerations. I also refer to the European Court of Human Rights, which has established that audiovisual media often have a much more immediate and powerful effect than printed media, the 1994 Jersild judgment. I think that is very well justified, and that this is a law – that was the question – that is going to be standing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e178	The more I listen to the debate, the more thorough I go into the proposition, the more I am left with a big question. What is the real principle of imposing such a ban? It seems to me that all those who are in favour of this ban are very concerned about what they call powerful influence, strong forces and price. It is a little strange to me that the Council of State and the Government, which – at least in my eyes – have been positive in relation to local TV, put in a ban on local TV broadcasting. When we know that the price of a 30-second advertising spot among the 22 local TV stations in Norway varies from 500 kroner and up to 3000 kroner, I wonder, in relation to the prices at which the Council of State is concerned when referring to other European countries that spend a lot of resources on this, and the danger that the smaller ones will not be allowed to speak in democracy, whether it is not an opposite principle that works here. It is clear that if we maintain that local TVs should at least be allowed to receive this advertising, we will also maintain the basis for the local TV stations. Especially when we see that you want commercial national channels on radio to be allowed to do political advertising, but not the small local TV stations, I get a little confused. Finally, reference is made to the fact that other countries in Europe have introduced similar restrictions. Does the Council really believe that when other countries restrict their freedom of expression, Norway should also do the same?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e185	When it comes to, as Sandberg is doing here, restricting freedom of expression, I would say that there is absolute freedom to speak in this country, but in terms of political advertising and life-vision advertising, we have now promoted a ban in the law against it on TV. I think that's easy to argue for, and as I said instead: the experience you have, for example. from the United States of America, with political advertising, would suggest that we would prevent such conditions from occurring in Norway, also in the interests of democracy and political debate. The fact that it's expensive, and that one of them is shutting out a part of participating in that type of activity, is one side of it. On the other hand – and that may be the most important – this is a form that is very strong and that is fast in the sense that the political debates will have an impact that we do not want. Then Sandberg takes up the question of local TV. The party of progress wants absolute freedom for television advertising, I understand. And I do not agree with that. I see that the relationship between local radio and local TV can be discussed, but there are the same points that come in, namely that the television picture – the audiovisual instrument – is much stronger than what is on radio, namely sound. And that is why we have also said that local television should not be given the opportunity to promote politics.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e192	When you listen to the debate and the statements of the Council of State, you are well aware that this government chose to send value questions to a commission and do as it pleases, because this debate is completely out of value anchoring. I believe that it is possible to have two views, valuablely speaking, on the question of that type of opinion, but to justify it in terms of price, that it is too expensive, has nothing to do with that kind of justification. And I wonder, where does the Council of State have the professional evidence to say that TV has such a special influence? Can she specify the reports the department has made as a basis for this? I read, among other things, with an interest in the fact that the head, as the department itself has appointed, for what is called the General Broadcasting Council, just justifies that he is unable to see this fundamental difference and that he does not think that there is any reason, in doubt, to prohibit political and life-see statements on TV. I also want to ask the Council of State directly whether she agrees with the justification given by the representative of the Left Party, namely that the reason why political advertising has to be banned in television channels is that they are concessional. Technology offers unlimited possibilities for such concession to be released. And then it is – to say it as the Left's representative so eloquently expressed it – an over-time position that technology will certainly eliminate. I would like the Council of State to comment on this comment from the representative of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e207	I listened with interest to Foss’ starting point, which I understood was based on the valuable anchoring on which we have laid the foundation for this attitude. And he rallied – of course, I kept saying – that price should have something to do with values at all. For many of us, having almost equivalent opportunities to speak is a value – a democratic value. That is also the case, I think, when it comes to rules – and you have to, and I assume that Per-Kristian Foss also believes that some rules need to be in place – for this to convey messages, it is important for me that in a democracy we can say that we do not want political advertising on TV in the form that we have seen political advertising on TV, and that I think will be in such an opportunity. So I was a little disappointed that Per-Kristian Foss did not elaborate on what was Right's value anchoring to say yes to absolutely all advertising also on TV. With regard to the views of the Head of the Danish Research Council, there is a balance between different interests and different interests, and I also said that in my contribution. When it comes to the question of advertising on radio, we have actually seen that questions related to freedom of expression will come in such a position that we are in favour of opening up advertising on radio. But it's based on a balance and based on different considerations, and not on a crystal-clear, principled point of view. And that's how I think political processes very often will be. With regard to the position of the Left, the representative of the Left Sea must be told. I don't think it's natural for me to go into what the Left's representative meant by his post. But I can see that the government stands united behind what we are now asking for, namely the ban on advertising on television for political parties and life's views, and so we open it on radio, local radio, and then it becomes P4 for the time being.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e216	In a previous post today, the representative Lånker said that he had major problems with giving some basic reason that we should have a ban on political advertising and life-vision advertising on TV and permission to do so on radio. Now I want to give the Council of State a chance to tell if there is any fundamental reason for such a distinction at all. I expect the various representatives of the government parties to be in some way in agreement with what they are presenting. Now we have seen that the Council of State does not take to heart what the Left Representative has said. And then I will challenge the Council of State to say if she stands behind that representative of the Christian People's Party has said. Because what Lånkne says is that he is very afraid that political advertising will lead to a startling debate, and if it does, he will have intervened. Then I ask the Council of State, Does she agree with Lånke? And if it turns out that radio advertising leads to a deterioration in the political debate, what means does she have to intervene, and she will then turn around to get a similar ban on TV and radio. And then to the last. I am so fascinated by this word 'robust'. What does it really mean that this bill is so robust, when both the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that it is a step in the right direction, that is. in their direction? Then my third question to the Council of State: what is this robust all over the world?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e223	On the question of principle, I have said in my post and afterwards – this is the fourth line – that there is a balance between different considerations. So you can't say it's a crystal clear principle. But it's an attempt to find a solution that's manageable, which I think is well-founded, and which is a balance between different important principles. I fully agree with Mr Lånke that this could be a danger to the continuation of the political debate. It's a main argument that you don't want this on TV, because it's even stronger there than on radio. I would also like to say that if one sees a trend towards radio advertising possibly leading to the start of the political debate, and that we get results that we do not like, we must be able to look at them again. It is in a response from me to the Committee that you can look at the regulation in the Broadcasting Act on how this can be designed. We're open to that, of course. If we believe that this was a mistake, we have to be able to change the law again, if that is necessary. I'm completely open to considering that. If there is a need to reintroduce a ban on advertising on radio, it is well up to this room to do so whenever you wish. With regard to this 'robust' term, I agree that that term is used a lot. When I use it like that, it's simply because I think the pressure to have a ban on political advertising and life-vision advertising both on TV and on radio would be so big that it would be harder to keep it than if we do what we do now. So time will show if I'm wrong. I don't think I'm wrong. I think this is a law that will stay standing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e232	Earlier today, the representative Hove from the Left came with a heart attack on the Committee on Freedom of Speech. The Contracting Party promoted in the Committee a proposal for a postponement and an open consultation pending the opinion of the Committee. Howe replied a little unclearly, and I would also like the Council of State to give me an answer to that. Could we perhaps have waited for this discussion until the opinion of the Committee on Freedom of Speech is available? Or did the government parties and the Workers' Party in some way panic that during the fall campaign it would not be political advertising? On behalf of the Committee, I sent some questions to the Council of State, which I got rather unclear answers to. Once again, I want to ask a question that is about defining political advertising: where does the Council of State think the border between advertising for a political party and, for example, the border between advertising for a political party? a trade union? After all, we experienced at the hearings in the committee that the trade unions themselves were unclear in this way. They even went so far as to say that some trade unions could be considered political, while other trade unions could be excluded from it. Can the Council of State give a clearer answer to how we can separate this? I also asked a question about this with the purchase of advertising – advertising space and capital groups. Is it now only for political television advertising to exclude capital forces? Or do you have to use the same argument in the future as regards advertising for others, where capital groups are to be excluded? And does the Council of State not see that it is at least a violation of democracy that capitalist groups should not be allowed to speak?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e241	In the case of capital groups, there is probably no danger that they will not be heard. And in the case of capitalist parties, we all know which parties are the most capitalist. These include: The party of progress. I do not doubt that it is the Progress Party, the Labour Party and the Right that have the greatest donors, and that – that is, the Labour Party and the Right, I do not know what the Advance Party has of donors – will be able to enjoy this. I don't like it very well, of course, but that's the way it is. It's purchases and sales, and then it's those who have capital that get used the offer. Some of the reasons for scepticism have been that those who have little money are not going to use this tool to reach people. When it comes to the distinction between different organisations, it can be a difficult balance and a difficult terrain to go into, so of course we have to follow this up. I mentioned the regulations instead, and there will always be rules that make you follow up a regime to see that you stay within the limits and limits that are set. With regard to the Freedom of Speech Commission, we did not have time to wait for it, simply because the Market Council had come up with two complaints, and we were told that there was too little authority to maintain the ban that we had. It was a test case where, among other things, the Advancement Party. had an ad on TV 2. That is why I thought it was very important to come to Stortinget with this matter in ours, so that we could clarify the legal basis for banning political advertising on TV before the 1999 elections. Moreover, I have no doubt that the ban we are proposing here, which goes specifically on television, will not conflict with what comes from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. It is so well-founded, both by legal experts and from what we see from human rights commissions, that I am absolutely sure that the Freedom of Speech Commission will not change the point of view of political advertising on TV.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e250	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e254	I begin where I left off in my previous line. I guess we haven't forgotten in any areas that we wanted a postponement of this matter. I will honestly admit that it is for various reasons. But first of all, it was because we think it's going a little too fast. After the Market Council decided that political advertising cannot be banned on TV, it looks like it has broken out panic both in the Government and the Workers' Party. Here one would immediately come up with a bill that one did not know the consequences of, even if one had the opportunity to get a thorough evaluation of the proposal in the context of the Progress Party's proposal for open consultation, at the request of the Chairman of the Committee on the Freedom of Speech, Francis Sejersted, to await their investigation, which is soon to come. Of course, one should have waited for their assessment. I can't understand why someone put down such a commission if we weren't going to wait for the statement from it. That the Council of State is in a way in agreement with what will be in those opinions is possible. But anyway, we in the other parties don't understand what's going to happen in them. There I think the council could have let us have a chance. Victory also says that political advertising in the ether media is one of the most important issues in the freedom of speech debate, and he is the head of the Commission. For my part, I have no doubt that this is the greatest intervention in freedom of expression in modern times in Norway. Therefore, political advertising should not be a matter of urgency for us now. Or, as Ivar Granaasen said in the evening post: Storting politicians should take time to read Mr. Arne Fliflet's thorough statements of December 1995 before using energy to formulate urgent decisions. There should have been time to discuss freedom of expression not only in relation to this matter but also on a more fundamental basis, particularly in relation to the Constitution § 100 and the European Convention on Human Rights Article 10. It becomes too easy to sweep the freedom of expression under the carpet by concluding with limitations and the laws of and re countries. It's too crazy to point out that a person has a certain degree of access to restrictions on freedom of expression. Or what are we going to conclude when the Department, and also the Council of State today, says: According to the Department's assessment, the ban on advertising life views or political messages does not conflict with the protection of freedom of expression. Then we see later that the Kyrre Egg, who is an expert on freedom of speech, determines that it is illegal to keep political advertising away from TV. There are no real reasons to distinguish between radio and television, and political opinions are at the heart of freedom of expression. So that's what you're saying, "Clean Egg," which is an expert. There is no argument to prohibit television advertising, in particular the argument that this advertising is much stronger. One of the points of freedom of expression is that you have the right and the right to influence. Therefore, as a society, we cannot say no to the media because of the magnitude of the impact. Furthermore, when the Ministry considers that it can be argued that a limited ban actually contributes to the promotion of freedom of expression, including: by the fact that resource-intensive groups do not take advantage of the opportunity to promote their views on the broadcast, I myself believe this is a confirmation that the department is willing – and so do the Council of State – to restrict the freedom of expression of certain groups in society. The potential resources, of course, will, regardless of today's decision, dominate just as much, perhaps not in the areas that we prohibit, but in all the other areas that are available. I also made clear in the committee when I requested a postponement of the case that we were given clear messages from various media that, if we took this decision, they would go to the Human Rights Court with the case. Then we might get a clarification through it. But I really don't think it's necessary that we first make a law order, and then later we're going to take a lot of lawsuits. I really think we could have had a proper hearing and been told whether this is legal or not.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e273	The Government has put forward proposals to allow the advertising of life views and political messages on radio, but prohibit it on television. This will be the beginning of the end of the ban also on TV. As you know, the background to the legislative changes is, among other things: Decision of the Consumer Ombudsman of 27 August 1997 prohibiting TV 2 viewing of advertising spots for the Advance Party. The Market Council repealed this Decision on 17 March 1998 in the light of the unclear situation at home. The current ban has not been effectively enforced. In the consultation round, the main argument has been that a person wants to advertise on radio and TV, and that a person wants a minimum restriction on freedom of expression. A few hearing bodies, such as TV 2, Norsk Editors' Association and Norsk Pressebund, have asked for the position of the Committee to be awaited before a legislative proposal is proposed. Today, a number of European countries prohibit or restrict the use of advertising for the purpose of life or political advertising. This applies, inter alia, to: Sweden, Denmark, France, Ireland and Switzerland — to name a few. Although the rules in the different countries differ in design, the intention has been that the political debate should be free and inclusive, and that freedom of expression should not be restricted by the economic possibilities of buying advertising for life's views or for a political message. It will be a question of how real freedom of expression becomes, if it is that it is only the richest parties that are given the opportunity to purchase advertising for their political message. The Progress Party has stated in its comments that it is not a good enough argument that resource-intensive individuals or groups and lots will have a better opportunity to profile themselves or their positions. They take again the party of the strongest, and have the defensive attitude to it that so “has always been and will be”, and therefore there can be no lasting argument in this case. A majority of the Committee would stress that the prohibition of the law is not a ban on political opinions but a ban on the purchase of a product in order to use it politically. This restriction of the prohibition is essential in relation to the third sentence of Paragraph 100 of the Constitution. This is not about putting freedom of expression in Norway at risk or in any way preventing the public debate on politics or life views.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e291	I'm recording that the government has a relationship with commissions that are going to say that we know what they're going to conclude with, and our opinions are not in conflict with what they're going to conclude with. Then I understand that many commissions are safely appointed. But here, the chairman of the Committee on Freedom of Speech has himself asked for the matter to be brought to the Committee on the basis of a principle, and that he believes that the question is important. The Minister of Culture ignores that. It's also interesting to hear the Minister of Culture's reasons. The reason goes into exactly what people fear, that here is a political majority in the process of adopting a ban on advertising because you don't like opinions, because you want quality assurance statements. There have been use of reasons such as – a quote from a principal advertising supporter, a present editor, even in the media – that you don't like that kind of "shit-throat" as it was called. Another representative used the term 'flattering the political debate', or 'placating languages'. It is also used the reason that they have a lot of money that will be able to use this access. That's not right, because it costs a lot more to advertise in the and re media. If you want to meet people, you have to see what the price is per. receiver, and not in total. Because it is allowed to have short advertising and long advertising, it is allowed to have a half-page advertising and a quarter-page advertising. So that's a completely irrelevant argument. And when I ask the Council of State what principal reasons she has for her position, that is, value, she is not able to provide any evidence of the claim of special influence. Secondly, she performs the following as a principle: we must have equal opportunities to be heard. I totally agree with that. And you also want to have equivalent opportunities with TV advertising. Everyone has the opportunity to buy when you have enough money. But it also applies in relation to the Times of the World or the Nations. It is very expensive to advertise in small newspapers in relation to how many people reach, and it is not all given. So there aren't equal possibilities, but there are equivalent possibilities. So here, the Council of States is completely without any principle justification. The only thing that's left at the end is: I don't like this type of statement, I don't want it, and I don't want people with money to be able to buy it. That's the argument. It's in the middle of the freedom of expression discussion, that someone uses an access to prohibit others from making statements because you don't like the content or you don't like their access to it. And I have to be allowed to add that there aren't really other political parties you're talking about here that might have the greatest economic potential. The accounts are public, and we know that for example. associations in LO are far richer than the richest parties, yes, even those parties that are rich because many support them. That's how batches get rich today – it's about state aid, not private collection. It shows the accounts, which are public, to the full. So it's a population figure that's so afraid, and I think that's a very interesting opinion from a Minister of Culture. In the end, you might want to say, like a heart attack, that there's not a lot of people who think that there's a little spooky about the cultural debate in this country when it's contributed in many ways – that's not a basic reason, but a reason that you don't like it and you don't want more of it. But it remains the fact that the most expensive ways to reach people through advertising are still allowed, while the ways that are not so expensive will be prohibited. In the end, I also want to just say the following: I agree with those who say that this prohibition will not remain very, very long. The term 'robust' for the bill has been used because it is not done in principle, but so advertising on radio only allows it to be local and expensive enough, while advertising on local television is not allowed because it is cheaper. Such a principle cannot stand still. In fact, in a free, open and democratic country, debate is at least allowed in some media, and such positions cannot be overdue. There I think that the Left's representative was in line with the Left's traditions when he discussed in many ways both performances and counter-representations and found that this was a 'time-to-time position'. That, I think, is the best characteristic given by the Government's view of this matter - a 'time-on-time position'. It's not very long. I had almost wanted the Left also to use the centre party tactics when one disagrees with proposals promoted by its own government, namely to send them back to the Government along with another large number. It has now been used by the Center Party in another matter, and it is a technique that at least produces results.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e318	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e321	The background to the proposal is inter alia: that a multiple on Stortinget has stated several times that this type of advertising should be prohibited, while the Stortinget's ombudsman has stated that this should have a clear legal basis. The Consumer Ombudsman also decided on 27 August 1997 to prohibit TV 2’s view of the advertising spots for the Progress Party. The Market Council repealed this Decision in March 1998 in the light of the unclear situation. Therefore, it is now possible to see your foot down in good time before the fall. A number of European countries prohibit or restrict the use of both radio and television to broadcast advertising of life views or political outrages. This applies, inter alia, to: Our neighbouring countries, Denmark and Sweden, while Finland and Iceland do not have such limitations. The reason for allowing advertising on radio and prohibiting it on television is that the impact of television advertising is so much stronger. That's what we've been saying before. Here you can see an impression of both word and image. The centre party is restrictive to advertising in the ether media and thinks it is decisive to curb TV advertising. This is also a more resilient proposal. We now expect to keep this dam against TV advertising much longer. It is also clear that a ban on advertising TV life’s vision is well founded on the fact that religious questions and life’s visions touch deep personal feelings. Broadcasting advertising in this area would seem noisy to many people. In addition, there is every reason to believe that political advertising in the media will help to develop an unfortunate form of political debate. A ban on the advertising of political parties will not apply to the democratic process in Norway, for as long as the opinions themselves are not banned, it must be up to each country to set the rules for the social debate. Some critical comments have come about sending political advertising, it would only be dirty to others and claims that would be untrustworthy. The state's media administration must ensure that this does not happen, so I expect this to be in safe hands. Another factor that speaks of sending this on radio is the number of local nearby radios that often wear out financially. However, this is not the main reason why radios should be sent. In addition, the near-radios are likely to be active on the local level where the upcoming election campaign will be held. Using the options available here will allow you to make the choice as local as he was actually going to be. Too often we have seen local election campaigns become national politics, with television and radio signals at national level.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e340	First of all, a little bit closer to the formal side of the matter today. It is said by several speakers that a ban is being adopted today. Formally, it's probably correct, in the sense that the prohibition you've had in a regulation has been found uninhabitable and thus legally inadequate. But in fact, the situation has been that we have had a ban on this until today, or at least until the autumn of 1997. So, in fact, the reality is that you ease a ban, in the sense that you limit it to radio. Secondly, I can say that in all material terms I agree with the Government's position, with the sole reservation that the Left, for its part, gives a clear signal that we perceive the Committee on Freedom of Speech as a Commission which is to make important contributions to the debate on freedom of expression in Norway – what status is, and what is perceived as important issues in one direction or another. And let me make it clear: I perceive that there are clear arguments in the context of freedom of expression that draw in both directions. There are arguments in relation to the question of freedom of expression that clearly draw towards allowing advertising also on radio and television. We'll let that extend to the radio in this round. But it is also clear that there are arguments in the same field that actually speak against advertising. Therefore, when I have characterised it as a ‘for-time position’, it is because we want to take the Freedom of Speech Commission very seriously and so far, in relation to a number of individual questions, be open to be able to correct or change positions in the light of the outcome of the Freedom of Speech Commission. But I also underlined in my post that a fully possible result of such an assessment would just be that we were going to stick to the legal position that we are now agreeing to adopt. Otherwise, I'd like to end up saying that I think we just have to admit that technological development is a point in this context. Technological development makes things change and can ask some questions in a new light. And finally, unlike Per Sandberg, I wouldn't be so sorry if we were going to get a trial on these questions. Judicial proceedings on questions of principle related, inter alia, to: to freedom of expression is not in itself to complain.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e355	I understood from the representative Foss’ posts that he thought we had a slightly special relationship with commissions in this government. I can only confirm that in the case of the Freedom of Speech Commission, we take it very seriously. The idea had been to wait for all the commissions that are at work, but the reason we chose to present this now was simply what I understood had come from Stortinget, in order to clarify the legal basis for the advertising ban before the 1999 elections. Otherwise, I might be perceived as knowing what the conclusions of the Freedom of Speech Commission were at this point. Of course, I don't know. What I want to say is that I believe the bill that we have come up with is so well-founded that it will also stand out after the opinion of the Committee on Freedom of Speech has come up with. In relation to the Constitution § 100 and in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights Article 10, the proposal is so well-founded and thoughtful that I believe it will be true even after the suspension of the Commission on Freedom of Speech has arrived. But, of course, I take the position of the Freedom of Speech Commission, when it comes, very seriously and will go through all aspects of it, so that we can keep the freedom of expression high in our country. But here we are in a situation where we have to balance a little different interests, and we have come up with the proposal that is now on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e362	I record taking commissions seriously, except for the contents of them. That's what commissions are supposed to be, I thought, giving inspiration to rethinking politics. It is not useful to say that they are taken seriously, but the conclusion is that the Commission should come to something else. But I'm sure the Council of State is right at one point. I know, sir. Place of victory so well that his conclusions are not given, and that the Council of State does not know them, I can rely entirely on, even from the assurances of the Council of State. That's the principle I'm responding to in the articles of the Council of State. I agree that freedom of expression is also a balancing issue. We in our society are facing a number of areas where we have provided criminal provisions for particularly insulting opinions. It goes on the quality of the opinions, which have to be weighed against other values in a society, for example. religion, race, etc. But this goes on another kind of constraint. It will be limited by the amount of the opinion, the strength of the statement or the channel in which it is to be made. It's a completely different qualitative type of debate, and I'm responding to the fact that here the reasons are used, like that, for the debate. It was not said A4 character, but poster language, or – as was said with reference to the United States – that there will be talk, a simplification, flattery, of the debate. But you don't have to watch TV in the United States in order to experience the perfunctories of the debates, in order to experience vulgar debates. You don't even have to travel to the United States to experience it. You can go to Norway to experience it without any paid media. It's very dependent on the eyes that see. I must say that I am undermining every right to any debate, whether it should never be so presumptuous, and I am undermining my opponent's right to speak about anything. There's a little bit of the principle in the debate, that you shouldn't restrict the rights of your opponent or the ability to speak. That's really the principle. Now I hear the new Left definition. In the past it was like this, as was said for jokes, but with a lot of seriousness, that there were two left-wing people present, at least there were always three opinions represented. It was in the old days, of course. Now it's like, when the Left is talking about principle questions like this, you use the term that it's a for-time point of view. It could be hoped, but I will take it seriously on one point, and I think it serves the Left to the Honourable, that at least they say that they are open to assess what the Committee on the Freedom of Speech comes to, as opposed to the Minister for Culture. Here I had actually hoped that the Minister of Culture would agree on the Left's position. At least there would have been something to discuss from.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e377	When I hear Per-Kristian Foss' last post, I'm a little surprised at the form his post takes: as if we, who are opponents of political advertising on television, will prevent anyone from expressing their opinions. That's not what this is about. I disagree with many, even here in this room, but it's of course that I want everyone who has something to look at to come up with their opinions. What we're talking about here is the question of whether you're going to have the right to pay for the transmission time on television and thus get your opinion out via television advertising. It is actually part of us – perhaps a majority, I believe and hope – who want to, that kind of advertising we have to be able to put an end to and not have in our country. It doesn't apply to anyone's right to have opinions. It depends on the form in which this statement is to be expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e384	Per-Christian Foss has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e388	It is very clear here that form governs content, because the Councils and representatives of the Government Parties have, in their arguments, used references to the content to prohibit this form of expression. Then you move into a dangerous terrain. Perhaps the most dangerous thing was the representative of the Left – I hope it was inconspicuous – who said that the reason why they wanted to refuse TV channels, private ideas or commercial TV channels that have access to advertising was that they were concessional, that is, that they sent by permission from the authorities. Then you're really in a very dangerous terrain, because what you're saying is that if you just break the rules that apply, and send from abroad to Norway, which technologically of course is fully possible, and for the future maybe the most likely and most common, yes, you do what you want. It's a kind of argument that I have to say at least does not belong to the primal sphere.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e395	Harald Hove has spoken twice and is therefore given the floor to a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e398	First of all, I agree with the representative Foss that it must of course be the form that advertising takes in television, which is the argument for refusing advertising on television – precisely the fact that it becomes a special form in terms of content. When it comes to the concessional matter, I feel that the representative Foss is withdrawing my argument a little from his context. What I argued in relation to was that in different contexts there are differences between newspapers, radio and television, and mentioned among other things. as an example of television broadcasts being and being concessional. Finally, when I have said that we have a for-time point of view, I have just referred to the freedom of speech commission that Per-Christian Foss thought should be taken seriously. Just taking a debate on freedom of expression in many contexts of its extension is something we will do seriously and with transparency in relation to the positions we have taken earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e407	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 686]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e421	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e430	The proposed amendment to the Cash Support Act means a greater freedom of choice for parents. The cash support is extended from four to five steps and allows for more options for young children’s parents. This is in line with the agreement entered into by the Government Parties, the Advance Party and the Right in connection with the introduction of cash support. The Committee is divided on this issue and the Working Party and the SV are opposed to the proposed amendments. The majority of the Committee would like to see a flexible model of cash support, a model that combines cash support and kindergarten. For example, with a fifth of the cash support, it would: be able to choose four days of kindergarten and one day of cash support, an opportunity that may be dear to many. The majority of the Committee also supports the harmonisation of the rates of cash support and child care allowance based on the child’s agreed residence in kindergarten proposed by the Government. It is important to stress that this harmonisation takes place over the number of hours spent in kindergarten and that the rates of the nursery allowance are adjusted accordingly. With regard to the amendments to the Law on Social Security proposed by the Government, these are a follow-up to the changes made to the Law of 11 December 1998 No. 70. The Committee notes that the proposed legislative changes are of a technical nature in order to improve regulatory coherence. The Committee endorses the proposed legislative changes. It is now important that the cash support scheme be calmed down. With the amendment of the law we are making today, the arrangement has become the way the majority went into the cash support agreement. The fact that the opponents of the cash support continue to run is not surprising, but these parties should also think that parents who use the cash support should be able to plan for a few months to come. There is therefore little responsibility on the part of the Workers' Party when they propose in their draft revised budget to cut cash support from 1 August 1999. What about those who have received leave from work, who have not applied for kindergarten for the next year? What kind of answer will the Workers' Party give these? The truth is that the Workers' Party has signed up and for the nth time the cash support money is made available for other good purposes. The small children’s parents should be aware of the signals the Workers’ Party sends out: If you are so stupid that you have chosen to prioritize more time with the child by withdrawing cash support, you can have it as well – we will remove the scheme from August 1. Babies' parents can relax. The cash support is secured by an agreement, and amendments cannot be made to this agreement without the agreement of all the five parties behind it. Now the five-fifths of the cash support are also in place, and thus the model that was agreed in the cash support negotiations is completed. The next challenge now will be the government's kindergarten message, but we'll have to wait for it for the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e449	The working party will demonstrate that the introduction of a five-part cash support from 1 August 1999 will result in a real savings in the cash support payment. The Labour Party will also show that parents who do not receive cash support for their children do not have the same degree of freedom of choice and flexibility as the representative Trond Helleland was now concerned about receiving cash support from their parents. These parents do not have the same flexible model for residence time as the Government has provided in terms of the possibility of combining cash support with kindergarten. The working party will refer to our general comments regarding the cash support in Innst. S. No 200 for 1997-98. The right cannot let the Workers' Party take responsibility for a cash support scheme that we have been against, and believe that at this point we are going to add money to an arrangement that we are against. We want, by alternative use, to show what we can get out of the nearly 3 billion dollars to to young children's parents, in a completely different way than the Right and Government add up. We are not responsible, although it may seem that the representative of Greece would have wanted it. But if it is the case that the Workers' Party is again in the government offices at some point in time, then of course we have to get back to the transitional regime.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e456	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 687]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e470	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e481	The new law on opening hours for outlets was too much. a year ago adopted by the Storting. This was done because the practice of opening hours at that time was contrary to the law. A revision of the law was therefore necessary. The revision mainly confirmed the current opening time pattern. The amendments which have been submitted by the Committee take account of some of the exceptions to the general rule. The proposals for the changes we are handling today are as follows: The exemption for outlets related to communication hubs is lifted.A special derogation is introduced for outlets at airports.The exemption for campsites is limited to the camping season.The county is granted a permit to limit the exemption for typical tourist resorts to specific times of the year. It is important to note that the changes will not lead to changes in the law's scope of action or the general rule of general opening hours. The proposed amendments should remove the basis for misinterpretations contrary to the intentions of the legislator. The Government proposal is in line with the hearing proposal of 12 February 1999. The hearing round gave broad support to the repeal of the exemption for traffic noodles and the introduction of specific exemptions for aerodrome outlets. The lifting of the traffic novation exemption means that the general opening times will also apply here. During the hearing, there was considerable argument against lifting the exemption for camping sites. The government is therefore in favour of retaining the exemption, but with a clarification designed to counteract accidental interpretation and distortion of competition. The clarification also implies that the exemption from the general opening time decisions for campsite outlets only applies during the camping season. In addition, the county council will be able to determine what can be seen as a typical tourist destination, becoming more flexible after the proposed change. The new thing is that the county can decide by regulation that places can be regarded as typical tourist resorts only in specified periods of the year. There is a solid plurality on the Stortinget to limit Sunday trade, but a slightly different view of how to do it. But it's a plurality to keep up a limited trading activity on Sundays and weekends, while consumers are supposed to be able to buy individual types of goods on those days, and in the evening after normal hours. The majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposal for the proposed amendments, which aim to remove the basis for misinterpretation contrary to the legislative intentions. The Christian People's Party has always focused on Sunday being a different day. We need a distinction between work and sleep, everyday and Sunday. The Christian People's Party still wants Sunday to be a different day with limited commercial activity. Therefore, we would like to welcome a clean-up in the code that can close again the dirtthola. The critics of the changes in this law, and like the law at all, think that the government should be aware of the possible smutthola when the laws were changed last year. To say that the paragraphs in question were in the original laws, and were not considered when the changes in question were made. a year ago. But with the focus that was then on the law, many more people have challenged the law in such a way that there was a need for a clean-up. The changes the committee has now handled and received in a number of ways do not imply major changes in the laws. They want to significantly clarify the content and intentions, as the Storting used earlier. I am therefore pleased that the majority in the committee joins the Government's proposal on changes to the opening time law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e522	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e525	I am pleased that the Christian People's Party at least adheres to its arguments and principles, because I believe now on three occasions in this post from the case rapporteur that the Christian People's Party wants to keep Sunday differently. It was also one of the strong arguments that the Christian People's Party used a year ago when we had some rounds of opening time law. And the way they're going to get to a different Sunday is by delimiting commercial trade. So Molvær Grimstad says a little later in the post that the changes proposed here have de minimis effects. So we should think, based on what was said here, that it wouldn't touch Sunday as it is today. But what I am interested in is: Does the representative of Molvær Grimstad believe that during the course of the year that has now passed since we made the previous changes to the opening time law – the so-called Brustad-bua and the 100m2 – have changed? I have kept her wish for a different Sunday through the 100 m2 when we look at what has happened in the last year, with great activity in rebuilding and getting several small shops down to 100 m2 etc.? The point is that trade has increased on Sundays since that decision was taken a year ago. I understand that Molvær Grimstad and the majority think about the big shopping centers etc., but they do not register that it has become a lot of new small businesses. Does Molvær Grimstad think that they have now succeeded in getting a different Sunday from the decision made last year?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e536	The reality of a year ago was that the practice that had developed was contrary to the law. One had to have a cleanup. So as it had developed, it was contrary to the law. So we got a revision of the law, and we figured out that delimiting with the area was one way to do this. Then ask the representative Sandberg if we've got the desired development in relation to the new Brustad arcs that have come. What has happened is that some have challenged the law and actually indirectly asked for a tightening of the law, because they have interpreted it with a traffic node something like just having a bus sign nearby, they may be open on Sundays. Thus, there has been an accidental effect. The same thing was said in the law before we got this with delimitation through the area, but it wasn't exploited in such a way as it has been this year. I think that when we get a clean-up in the law, as we get now, it will limit the creative activity compared to many trying to stay open on Sundays that weren't supposed to be open. I think one gets the desired development in relation to the fact that there will be less trade on Sundays. And by having received the promise we have, we also prevent the malls and other large malls from staying open every day almost 24 hours a day. So having a law that regulates this is according to the intention of what we've wanted, and I also believe that we're getting the developments we want in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e545	The representative of Molvær Grimstad is pleased that the Government is taking effect on the changes in the opening time law that are now proposed, and points out that there have been attempts to circumvent the law, and that it is necessary to clarify the law. Now it is true that exceptions to the traffic nook have been there for years since the Act of Opening Time was adopted. When some shops chose to have an open door, not attached to a bus sign, but to railway stations or major bus stations, they actually got the court's agreement that this was within the law, and then the government found it necessary to tighten it up. The question is: what is the reason why the Government then opens up to be allowed to operate in aerodrome terminals? What is it that makes passengers by air to be compensated for rather than those using other collective means of travel such as buses or trains? One would like to say that this is a haress over the law. It is often produced this way by those who are followers of this law. There aren't so many of them left, but there are some. The problem is that it's the law that invites harelas. When a serious newspaper such as the Address Paper can write an article under the heading ‘From Doubt to Worse’ about the proposals that have now been promoted, I find it in many ways good at what many people feel. Then there are questions about campsites, which have suddenly become an important moment for the Government to tighten up. The emphasis is then to add two words to the law: ‘in the camping season’. Can Molvær Grimstad explain a little how to define this camping season? And can Molvær Grimstad say anything about how this law is to be enforced? Should the police move out when there are three guests at the campsite? For the Council of State has said that there should be a certain coating on the campsite. Or should one just sit and watch that this is also going to be a sleeping provision?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e554	The representative of Greece refers to the Address Paper. Yes, this opening time law has been passed in the media, but it is precisely that some have exploited the openings that have been, which have meant that one must have a cleaning up, because it has become a hopeless practice when one has entered the law and been looking for a loophole to exploit, just to provoke the change in opening time laws. In this way, the industry that has asked for it, including the answers, will be more restrictive in order to achieve the best possible management of the opening time laws. When it applies to airports, we know that whether there are shops there, they are often a little more limited in relation to cities. When you have shops in Oslo Central Station, they're pretty close up there, and if we had said that it's okay for them to stay open there, because it's a traffic hub, Trond Helleland would probably have come up with a follow-up and said it's a distortion of competition. Why, then, should the shop which has happened to be located in the Oslo railway station be allowed to have the competitive advantage of having it open, but the neighbour lying on the other side of the street is not allowed to do so? One sees that here it will be easy a hopeless practice ahead, and the most neat thing is to do what the government has proposed, to say yes to aerodromes, and to remove the exception for traffic noodles. When it applies to the camping season, I also believe it will be handled properly. One has taken some clarifications precisely because one knows that there are some creative businessmen who will also try to challenge the law and the law, if they can, and then it becomes that one has to come up with a little more detailed descriptions to avoid it, in order to preserve the intention of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e565	I will be a little short – I have received inside information that there are people who are busy. There was one thing I reacted to, and it was that the representative Molvær Grimstad here says that the actors are looking for loopholes to provoke changes in the opening time law. Does Molvær Grimstad really think that those who run these industries are interested in getting their frames tightened? Because that's what Molvær Grimstad says. Don't Molvær Grimstad think that what happens in relation to the evolution that they're looking for openings can be a process to satisfy the needs of people, that they're facilitating it, and that people actually want to act at the times and in the places for which it's being arranged? I don't think any kind of businessman wants to set up a business where there are no people, even if there is a bus sign there. So my question is, doesn't she think there's a need for the population that makes one get such a development?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e574	I'm talking to people in the commercial industry who are happy to get a code that gives a little more similar practice and also limits the opening time, because there's a part that doesn't want to keep open. But there are also some actors who don't want to have the opening time laws that we have, and who want to be able to stay open when they want to. I think that's the intention of provoking the law, and I think they're provoking it for a change. It's in the hope that the Storting might change its point of view and say that we're lifting the entire opening time promise. But then they misjudged those who have stood by this law. What the politicians are responding to here today is that when a person exploits or tries to challenge smutthola, we're going to close them up again. Because the intention to get an opening time permit is fixed. One wants to limit trading on Sundays, but not in such a way that people are not allowed to do supplementary trade, as they have before this law came into force, but as the practice has become, it now has more in the form of law. I think that a lot of people want us to screen Sunday as a different day, so the cashier won't grumble and go in day and day. A wish to preserve Sunday as a holy day with limited commercial activity.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e583	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e587	It is only one year since we discussed a bill on restrictions in the opening time law in this store. During this period, businesses have shown great creativity and ingenuity to avoid following the law. I wish they had used as much force to follow the law as they have used to avoid following it. What was the purpose of the bill has been to try to limit Sunday trade, so that Sunday becomes a different day with limited commercial activity. The workers' chances of protection against night work and holidays have been very important for the Workers' Party. At the same time, consumers have been wanted to be guaranteed the possibility of complementary trade in groceries beyond normal opening hours. We all have a notion that weekend, and especially Sunday, is something other than the busy working days of the week, and it's quite rooted in the Norwegian people. It's good to know that there may be time for recreation, the family is kind of together and it's predictable if other groups have freedom or not. These desires for more common leisure time and individual desires to act when one wants to collide in a debate on where the boundaries will go, so that both views can be dealt with as best as possible. It is then important to ask whether individual freedom and so-called development should be the only guide to how we should feel on a Sunday, or whether the use of public time and public space should be subject to social debate and constraints. It is self-contradictory when people want a more open society with more accessibility for goods and services than the old closing laws and regulations, while 75 pst. wishes for Sundays and holidays to be something other than the daily kav and mass. Then there are some border zones where balances have to be made. Those weighings must be carried out collectively and not only on an individual basis. We can compare with many countries in the world, and it turns out that our availability is above the countries we usually compare with. If we are to go further on the liberalisation line, it means that development must be seen in the light of society, and not just in terms of the individual's right. The question cannot be simplified in the way that the Right Party and the Advance Party do it, by allowing anyone to do as you like. The country’s workers have been on guard against pulverising the working hours at weekends, and friends and family working at all times of the day without the possibility of having a core time together. Many people probably find it pointless to problem this development and that it is scarce to solve the problems that arise. Among other things, the Progress Party thinks it's pretty good to talk about the guardian state. Nevertheless, it is enough that, in individual border areas, the extension of freedom for some leads to a restriction of freedom for others. Such a conflict of interest must be resolved no matter how difficult the Progress Party and the Right consider it to be. The Labour Party considers the legislative proposal we have today to be an attempt to clarify a grey zone problem, and therefore supports the proposals for change made by the Government, both in terms of traffic hubs, campsites and the county council's right of destination in relation to tourist locations. It is always such that laws can be interpreted, and my appeal to business is: Use the interpretation and intentions of the lawmakers in the matter, instead of trying to undermine the law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e610	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e613	I registered that the representative Fossum in his post almost did not affect the relevant legislative changes, but gave a so far ideological defence of the collective's right to decide for a possible minority. She developed the problem that a majority wants a more open society, and at the same time wants 75 pst. Sunday shall be a different day. I'm at least among the 75 pst. who want Sunday to be a different day, and so is it. But I don't want to restrict the possibility of shops to choose whether they should be open, and the argument that this will affect family life, this will affect employees, etc. is at best doubtful, because we know – we saw it when the new Brustadbu law was introduced – that many part-time workers, many students lost their jobs at different shops, for example. in my town, Drammen. They had an opening time until 1:00 p.m. 23 on weekdays, it was tightened until 7 p.m. 21st Last@item: inlistbox They had a long opening time in the evening on Saturdays, it was tightened until noon. 18th@item: inlistbox This meant that there was a need for less labour, and fewer students and school students were given the opportunity to work at the store. But the question of Grethe Fossum is: what defence does the representative Fossum have for that clarification, such as that? in the case of campsites? Is it suitable to clarify the law? Does the Workers' Party really believe that the two words ‘in the camping season’ are clarifying, and can it be expected that business will relate to a law that is so unclear on the part of lawmakers? What is the intention of the law regarding the camping season? I would like an answer from the representative Fossum.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e620	The representative of Greece is probably right that I did not touch the legislative changes. I figured that all of the seven people who were sitting in this room had actually read the changes in the law, that they knew them. In addition, the case rapporteur went through it in a glittering way, so I found that it was not worth it. It is absolutely right that I affected the individual right in relation to the collective, which we also need to look at the laws. I have also noticed that some students have lost their job, but I have also noticed that unemployment has actually gone down since the law came into force. So there can be no argument from the representative on the Right that the students have lost the job when there are more people working. Then it's the individual constraint relative to what's in the law. It's actually like there's a loophole in every law, and lawyers are actually paid to find the loopholes. And it's been like the business community for 20 years has been treating the law as it was supposed to, according to the intentions you had just in terms of camping sites and traffic hubs. It was not until last year that they began to think differently, and therefore my call is made by law, namely that I am asking that business look at the intentions of the lawmakers and not follow the obstruction policy that I see as both the Progress Party and the Right leads in relation to this law. I think they should be more on the majority side and ask that business follow the law as it was intended.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e629	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e632	It could have been nice to go one year back and look at the arguments used in the debate at the time, the arguments behind the changes at the time. What was the majority last year doing to get to their 100 m2? One doesn't have to go that far, because it's shown in the setting of the year as well. Let me quote: ‘The majority in the Committee considered it an overarching objective to limit the daily trade and to wish to keep on Sundays as a different day of limited commercial activity. ‘... The consideration of employee leisure time and the limitation of inappropriate working time for them was another argument. At the same time, the majority, at the time desirable, continued to maintain a reasonable level of availability for the supply of groceries in addition to normal working hours. That's what they said last year, and it's repeated in the setting this year. What happened, however, is the opposite. Sunday trade is at least equal; workers work at least as much and as uncomfortable; the availability of supplementary trade is at least equal. I have to ask: what drives these detailed rulers from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left? And what is it, or who is it that governs the Workers' Party into such a hopeless game? There is no doubt about the Workers' Party's power, and there is no strong desire from the Workers' Party's Group for these hopeless detailed controls. What, then, underlies the position of the Workers' Party? We also know that when the law was to be revised in 1996, it was against the law being removed in its entirety. At that time Gro Harlem Brundtland was the prime minister, and Grete Berget was the responsible minister. I have to ask: was it Iland, who entered the Prime Minister's chair, who wanted this regulation, or was it simply the Brustad-bua's mother, Sylvia? So to this year's proposal for changes: outlets on campsites during the camping season. I do not know what camping practices the majority or the Council of State have, nor does it matter in relation to the proposal. The point is that it is people who decide where and when to camp. There are numerous year-round campsites in this country. The coating varies of course. It can be empty, it can be medium, it can be full – simply because people decide it themselves from time to time, weather, vacations, hunting, etc. In a response to the committee, the Council of State states that it is aware that the wording of the requirement in the law is discretionary. She further says that she does not believe that there will be in practice significant problems related to where the limit of a certain coating goes. My claim is that the Council of State knows that this amendment of the law is hopeless. If one uses the same response to the legislative changes concerning the county, the county may decide, upon application by the municipality, that an area should be regarded as a typical tourist destination. What do the statesmen say about this? That's something that's obviously relevant and will be the result. In an article in the Address Paper, the county officials fear that the government’s proposal for a simpler law on opening hours ‘is lacking in clear guidelines and therefore opens up for arbitrary treatment’. In addition, Sissel E. Slapgård of the County of southern Trundelag states: «The threshold to consider an area as a typical tourist site is changed must be found in a completely different and clearer way to that set out in the Ministry’s amendment proposal. This is very important in the practice of the legislation. ‘... Again: A hopeless amendment. It involves more bureaucracy, perhaps legal cases and different treatment. The proposal is also directly hostile to districts, I would say. Today there are countless farmers and fishermen in the districts who have camping tourism as a secondary activity through trade, and other services to, the campers. These will of course be affected by this. What does the majority add to the amendment to discriminate, for example: airports in front of railway stations, bus terminals, etc.? Does it mean that when you're out flying, people do the supplemental shopping of groceries? Or are you going to say that people are going to election to Gardermoen's planned giant mall on Sundays? Finally, I just want to say: these amendments will create even greater confusion and are simply hopeless. I would like to promote the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right, which has been included in the vote, and in addition to that, of the Progress Party, which is distributed in the Chamber, where we equate petrol stations and grocery stores of 100 m2 and 150 m2 respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e664	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e667	According to the Government, the intention of the amendments to the opening time law that we now have to deal with is to simplify the law and eliminate the ambiguity around the interpretation of the exemption provisions. In the opinion of the Right, the present ones create new ambiguity than the ring proposals. The government and the majority replace one ambiguity with another. The exemption for traffic hubs is lifted, while new uncertainty is created about the exemption for campsites by now applying only to ‘in the camping season’. The debate will no longer focus on what should be considered a traffic noodle, but on how long the camping season really is. With the majority's starting point, that one will allow Sunday trade, but at the same time limit its scope, the law must necessarily be marked by exceptions, ambiguity and inconsistency. The right of air passengers to trade in liberal shops must now be established, while rail passengers are pushed into narrow Brustad arches as a result of the removal of the general exemption for the communication node. I can't see that there are factual or principal arguments for such discrimination against people, depending on the means of transport they choose to use. The right further promotes the proposal to repeal the full opening time law. Opening hours should be regulated by people’s practices and the wishes of traders, regardless of what some politicians consider to be worthy or unworthy of Sunday trade. The majority of attempts to grade weekend peace by the number of square metres in the shops, whether the merchants are flight or train passengers, or whether the trade takes place at a typical tourist destination while the tourists are in majority, or at a campsite during the camping season, are pointless from any assessment, whether it is the pastor's, the merchant's or the consumer's. The exemption for campsites shall now apply only during the camping season. And it can be long – caravan and caravan often also use winter time. The note to this provision states that the majority agree with the Government that the term ‘camping season’ must be understood to mean that the campsite is open and has a certain coating of camping tourists. It wasn't that very clarifying. For what is a ‘certain coating’ of camping tourists? Should the owner of a campsite close the store for their guests if they are not enough? I wrote a letter asking about this to the Council of State, but didn't get much wiser from the answer. The Council of State answers that she is aware that the formulated requirement in the law is discretionary, but does not believe that in practice there will be significant problems related to defining the limits of a ‘certain coating’. I have noticed that the Council of State would not engage in dialogue with the VG on this, but would nevertheless allow me to hope for some clarifications here tonight. I guess a lot might suggest that this would be a paper determination. Or will we really experience that the department asks a campsite close the store because the coating is not big enough to keep you open? That's what time will show. In its reply, the Council of State wrote that the intensification had been introduced in order to prevent the exemption from being exploited contrary to the intentions of the law and in a way that gives rise to undesirable distortions of competition. Here we are at the main problem of the law. The law distorts competition, for the benefit of international oil companies and shops such as the 7-Eleven chain, which deliberately challenges the provisions of the old opening time law – and was rewarded for it with a law tailored to their needs. But this may be a desire for distortion of competition on the part of the majority. Breaking the opening time law does not solve the problems. It's the law itself that's the problem. It should therefore be repealed. The right repeats its proposal on that today, and I can only regret that it does not get a majority. That means we've hardly seen the end of the farce of the opening time law yet. Of course, with regard to the proposal from the Progress Party to treat petrol stations and shops by setting a limit of 100 m2 and 150 m2 respectively, the Right will support this if our proposal to repeal the law is not adopted. Otherwise, it is a pleasure to record that SV is now jumping off and will not vote for the new tightening ups proposed by the Government. It goes slowly, but surely, in the right direction. Then we get to hope that the next time we debate the opening time law, it is based on liberalising the provisions, so that we can once again start moving towards a more open, unbureaucratic society – a society where individuals make a choice, and politicians do not choose what is good for each one.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e699	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e702	I record that the Right takes SV to income for his view of repealing the law. I expect that the representative has read the setting a lot better than that. But if the representative from the Right thinks that last year's alternative opening time law proposal is better than what is available, that's an interesting point of view. I also note that the Right in this matter to this day has not argued politically, but only on the basis of technique. And that's easy to understand. Most studies have concluded that a majority of the people – a great majority – will have Sunday as a different day. There is the Right in favour of people who do not accept Right Liberalism. But the technique in the law has, among other things, It is clear to the right to focus so that there has been a great debate – including outside this house – on what is the technique of the law, not on what is the policy of the law. But that's not what I was supposed to ask. What I record, and which amazes me time and time again, is that the Right defends parts of the business, the business that always makes laws and rules, and that works to undermine the law that the majority has opted for. I know that the Right is a member of a society that has laws and regulations. How, then, can the Right use individual companies' border crossings, which in turn go beyond the other companies, to legitimize the changes? Has the Right made any fundamental clarification of its view of this, or is it situational in this law?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e711	I understand that the changes in the opening time law, which the Workers' Party is now involved in defending, right after they have had to have a long break in thinking, are difficult to explain. When the representative, Alstad, claims that I have not read the setting, and says that I am taking SV to income for my vision, I just want to repeat what I said: it is a pleasure to register that SV is now jumping off and not voting for the new tightenings proposed by the Government. I assume that the representative from SV will explain this afterwards, but it is clear in a note that SV does so. Then the claim of the representative Alstad is that the Right defends a business that deliberately tries to do the law. But that's exactly where the problem lies. The law is so unclear that it provides the basis for interpretation. And when it comes to the issue of business related to a traffic hub, the Hakon chain actually has the right to have them open on Sundays. The government ran out and said this was illegal, this must be stopped. So the courts said something else. We do not defend the right of industry to make rules, but we defend people's right to choose. We defend people's right to choose freely if they want to trade in a store over 150 m2 on Sundays, and we actually believe that that must be a legitimate claim. Why should people be pushed into the narrow arcs? Why is it that business needs to spend hundreds of millions on conversions to adapt to a law that no one understands? It's true that people want Sunday to be a special day. I think most families will make the choice to use Sunday for Sunday trips, excursions, church visits or anything. But if it is that some people work late one night and need to go to a store and shop, then there must also be a legitimate choice that the individual makes, if the shops choose to have it open. I think the representative Alstad should be looking at Sweden where the social democrats have for the longest time lifted the opening time law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e725	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e728	I might want to start with a quote from Øystein Sunde: "What did I say? ‘I’m thinking about the result of the plural proposal last year to regulate the opening time laws by using the area. I'm still going to save myself and others now for further comments to that very thing, because done is done. This area has been regulated since 1897, so nothing new. But the centre party still disagrees with the fact that the area was some good way to limit the trade in Sundays. We still believe that product selection would have been a better way to do it, which was also addressed by the majority of the hearing statements received. Without securing consumers the ability to purchase certain necessary goods, it would also have prevented disproportionate differences in the treatment of different outlets that are now competing in the market. We have also seen this year, which has passed since the laws were adopted, that shops and gas stations have planned to exploit the possibilities that exist, and the health trade has not diminished. Now it has e.g. Hakon Group and the ICA chain made an agreement with Statoil to get more square meters to sell groceries on. Otherwise, I understand that shops are still thickening there was a distortion of competition in relation to the service stations, which would probably have been on the verge of Norwegian law for a long time. The change in the law now does not do this much better, but it is also clear that the intention was that the petrol stations should have a parking lot of 50 of their 150 m2. Here, the plurality behind this proposal could have arranged. This would also be completely different with another model of delimitation. Otherwise, some people have tried grey areas in the new law. Kjøpmann Trond Lycke in Trondheim opened the dance in January and found the loophole in the law that gave sunday open shops at the communication junction. This point had been regulated for many years, but no one had seen any reason to do anything about it until now it wasn't the head of the bounds of square meters. So let's see what's going to be the next attempt. I have heard that a lot of goods outdoors are the next move to try out the promise. This again shows that this law is a little bit perfect. In the Center Party, we wouldn't have the Sunday as a normal day of action. I believe that the welfare or prosperity of society would increase if the health trip was traded, if the family's Sunday excursion went to the warehouse instead of going into nature or on family visits. Nor was there any doubt that extended opening hours in themselves would lead to concentration in the trade in goods, and that the commercial leakage from the buildings to the large trading centres would speed up. Furthermore, this will easily become an intermediate station towards full sunday opening in all fields, for all kinds of shops. There is no doubt either that until longer shops have open daily and over the week, until the goods are more expensive for those who might be interested in it. Otherwise, it's a little strange that those who cry out most about expensive food in Norway, are the ones who want most shops on Sundays and open 24 hours a day. Besides, there's something called security for tens of thousands of adders. We see that shops that have been open on their evenings and nights are being exposed. Right here, there's often only one added at this time. I know that Trade and Office Oslo – Akershus are very concerned about this, and I want there to be a minimum of two on duty all the time. At the same time, there is an increasing tendency for them to occur during an illegal working period with one individual on their own at work. Because it wasn't supposed to be the extras in the night shop being the police? I'm afraid that's how it feels to many of them added. I have to say that the proposed changes to the opening time laws could have been unnecessary if the centre party model of an opening time law had received multiples last year. Nevertheless, this law has now worked for well five months and has a multiple on the Stortinget. There would be total confusion among the shops if we had changed this to a new model. Therefore, the Center Party will not propose that if we are never so disunityd in the laws themselves. These changes will hopefully lead to greater consistency with the intentions of the plural with the opening time promise. In addition, Trade and Office are now involved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e754	SV believes that there is a link between the necessity of these changes made in the opening time law and the fact that the majority of the caverns chose square metres as the basis for exemptions from the general opening time regulations. That is where we actually agree with the Center Party. When we dealt with the matter last year, SV was committed to ensuring that the workers in the goods trade had a general right to working time within the normal working day and thus protection from night and Sunday work. We were also concerned that we would have Sunday as a different day. We agreed that it was desirable to provide consumers with a reasonable opportunity for supplementary trading outside normal opening hours, even on Sundays. SV agreed that the exceptions had to be unbureaucratic and easy to understand. We would therefore have a trading cap as the basis for exemption, and the turnover rate would have to be at a level that excludes the large commodity stores from the exemption provisions. And we still do. We agree that the practice established at outlets at airports should be enshrined in the law. We will vote in favour of Section 3 of the new fifth paragraph, but against the other amendments. We do that precisely because we want exceptions that are unbureaucratic and easy to understand. We do not want liberalisation, and I do not want any revenue for the Right View. We are not going to vote in favour of a lifting of the opening time law at all, but if the Right believes that our position is a step in the right direction, we can – if the Right gives us that signal – be very happy to re-promote the proposal we had last year. Otherwise, we will vote against the proposals from the Right and from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e763	When I take the floor in this debate, it is too short to account for the Left's vote on this matter, not to take up the time of the Storting later with an explanation of vote. When the opening time law was under discussion in Odelstinget last year, the Left promoted an alternative proposal for what was the final decision and to which today’s legislative amendments relate. The left's intention was to get an unbureaucratic law that gave people the opportunity to shop groceries on Sundays, but that did not open up to general Sunday trade. We didn't get a majority for our proposal, and I'm not going to promote it again today. But when we were opposed to what has been referred to as 'Brustad-bua', it was precisely because we saw that such a detailed square metre of regulation of trade could lead to ambiguities in terms of the law and strange adaptations of the kind we have witnessed in winter. The left is still against this model to regulate the opening hours, and we cannot see that the adjustments that are to be voted on today will lead to the law becoming more in line with Left's intentions for an opening time law, namely that it should be easy to understand and unbureaucratic to handle. On this basis, the Left will vote against the amendments to the law, except in the case of the fifth paragraph of Section 3, with the same justification as the SV has given.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e774	There are many different ways to be remembered as a politician. One of them is that today we can be involved in inculcating even more of a law that was initially very few, according to the view of the Progress Party, agreed or understood the purpose of, namely the opening time law. This one has its history with many different proposal variants and their names. The result was a law that led to our getting a so-called 'Brustad-bu', which, after a while, turned out not to be the law that the majority wanted, as the result was more Sunday trade than less. It also favoured some types of business and location, and this is what we do when treating Ot.prp. No 72 for 1998-99 should be corrected. The progress party's view of the law is the same today as last year, but we see even more clearly now, when we see the result, that this is a law that is very unnecessary and that creates frustration in people who because of their work situation, by unexpected visits etc. does not have the opportunity to trade what you would like from legally marketable goods when this is necessary. The case has a ridiculous aspect and may also be able to create – as mentioned earlier – political contempt. If you buy milk and bread at a store of 99 or 101 m2, and if this happens either on a Saturday or on a Sunday, it should not be so different. The followers of the Opening Time Act say it is important that a solution is now found that is understood and that has reasonable outbursts. That's when the Progress Party wants to say a little humorous: Good luck – without us believing this will help mentionably. This is and will be a bill that very few really want. The starting point was to get a bill that could make Sunday a different day. This is probably none of us disagree with, but we have to realize that today's way of life is different from some years ago. We have become, and must also be, a people of different living and style. What's right for someone isn't necessarily what's best for others. This means that society's service institutions, such as shops and service stations, also targeting the market and the demand for services. So to today's case about the treatment of Ot. pp. No 72 for 1998-99. Nearly a year after the original law was passed, we will be able to remove most of the dirtholes that the former law had. This can work for some – but is that what we want? In addition, travelling by air or rail on the basis of the exemption from the general rule in Section 2 will continue to differ from the service provision. The point of progress seems to be to discriminate between travellers. We all have our different purchase needs that we want to meet when we are travelling. So to the traffic nodal point. Here the Ministry considers that the exemption for outlets of less than 100 m2 in Section 3, first paragraph, No. 1 must be sufficient to take account of passengers. The party of progress disagrees with this. The lot also disagrees with an area limit for some types of service institutions and other outlets of 100 m2 and 150 m2 respectively. The conclusion is that it is better to remove the whole law, as it seems unreasonable to those who need and want to act when they want to. Having Sunday as a different day is a good wish, but is difficult in today's situation. We are also somewhat sceptical about the proposed changes concerning the state's jurisdiction and believe that this could lead to a different practice, which could therefore break with some of the intentions of the 1998 legislative decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e795	It is unusual for a proposal to change a law to be made less than half a year after the previous amendment to the law entered into force. However, I cannot agree with the representatives of the minority who claim that this is critical. When formulations – or interpretations – of a legal text create problems, it must be in everyone's interest to clear up what is unclear and find better solutions as quickly as possible. I would also like to point out that the problems that arose just after the law came into force in the new year came first and foremost as a result of the fact that parts of the trading community begin to interpret others in the laws in an unknown way – in relation to both their own practices and the Storting's clear intentions behind the regulations. The exception for the traffic nook, which was contested, was not a new rule, but a continuation of previous exemptions. The proposal for changes that has now been presented is important in order to clarify the regulatory framework and clarify the circumstances surrounding opening hours. A particular concern is that business through questionable interpretations should not be given a competitive advantage over business that is clearly on the right side of the law. The changes and additions that have been proposed hardly alter the reality of the laws. Essentially, the contents are clarified in the light of the intentions of Stortinget. As pointed out also at the previous handling, the promise is to express a political compromise and a balance between different considerations. It is an overarching goal for the Government to limit the commercial activity on Sundays. In an increasingly commercialised society, it is important to have days where other activities can play the leading role, and where there is room to take care of other activities in a leisure time that is not influenced by commercialisation. The importance of those added to the trade and their rights to leisure is another important element. The general opening times in the laws would generally provide satisfactory prospects for making purchases, and the exemptions provide reasonable access to the necessary supplementary purchases at other times. The Right Party and the Forward Party argue for user reasons when they want to remove all restrictions. I mean the price of having a daily society becomes too high based on general social interests, from the employee's point of view and from the employer's point of view, and can also be seen from a consumer's point of view. If we try to see the role as a consumer in isolation, I don't think we're lit with an additional reinforcement of the consumption and purchasing pressure that a release of opening hours will mean. 74 pst. by Norwegian teenage girls, “shopping” as their main hobby is a diploma project from Norway’s Marketshögskole. I think we need a law that can slow down the purchasing pressure, and I am happy that a number on Stortinget is also combined in it. Then go to the concrete suggestions in the proposition. I've happily marked the connection from a multiple in the committee at all points to the Government's suggestions, and just like the foundation of the individual circumstances. So I would like to comment on the objections of the minority travelling. The Ministry has made suggestions to remove the exemption for the sale of goods to travellers at no-traffic points. This is an exception that would be unnecessary with the previous changes to the laws that were made. I refer to the distribution and the rationale of the proposition. As a follow-up to this, a suggestion is also made for a home to exempt the traditional sale at Airports for the limitations of opening hours. The minority does not comment directly on the lifting of the exemption for communication nodes. On the other hand, both the Right and the Progress Party point to a different approach to exemptions for airports and not for railway stations, and disagree that different rules should apply. I'm also referring here to the basis of the proposition. As the plural number emphasizes, the hall from business in the many and mainly centrally located railway stations will be directed towards the ordinary purchasing audience to a very different degree than the sale at Airports. This will both undermine its intentions and create unintended and groundless competitive advantages for ordinary outbuildings that are located in station buildings. The general exemption for outlets up to 100 m2 should at all times be more than sufficient to cover the needs of trains passengers on their journey. The exception in the current law for campsites can be understood in such a way that the location of an outsal on the campsite itself gives a complete exemption from opening hours, irrespective of season and capacity. I expect this to be recorded in the line change, so I can get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e818	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e821	If the Council of State is psychic or not, I don't know, but that's exactly what I thought I would ask the Council of State. There's been a lot of talk about camping sites here, and it might be that the vacation is coming soon, so we'll see. The first question I want to get answers from the Council of State is: How long is a camping season? This seems to be strange, as the length of such a season depends very much on the location of the campsite in Norway — from a relatively short period in North Norway to the year round, for example. South Norway. What is a sustainable campsite for someone is not necessarily for others. This also depends on who the owners are, and how they operate the campsite. In addition, I would like to ask the Council of State about the following: How many nights does it take to really be a campsite with permission to sell groceries? The Ministry says it must have ‘a certain coating’ of camping guests. Can the Councils respond to this? And if the Council of State has thought about a number, what is this? Is this also thinking that it depends on where the campsite is? Can this not be a very district hostile policy – from a government that just has the way of the districts and well as one of its fanatics?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e830	It is often the case that when you remove one point that was unclear after a law was passed here in Stortinget, you move on to another point to draw the fuzzy one in it. When it comes to camping sites, it has doctors in the exceptions of law all the time. But we're now making a change to make it apply during the camping season. And how long does a camping season last? I agree with Bredvold that it's actually different, from north to south and from east to west. Some campsites are open all year round and have full covering — or at least as good as full covering throughout the year. Others don't. So the camping season lasts as long as the campsite is open and it has a lot of guests. Now, of course, I have not intended to tell you how many guests there are, but the point of saying that there should be a ‘certain coating’ is that you should not keep a store open to say that the campsite is open, when you may not have guests at all. I expect those who receive this law to understand what is in it, and what is the intention of the laws. This is by no means a district enemy. We have campsites around the districts that are open for shorter or longer periods of the year. Most of the smallest campsites are likely to have shops of less than 100 m2 and those which may not have one must have a ‘certain coating’. It may be a big problem, but I honestly don't think it's going to happen in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e839	It's always lower than the majority's base tone, which is in favour of these changes in law, that we, who are in a minority, are trying to argue against the law. It's kind of strange that we keep doing this, but it's probably not that strange when we get the kind of formulation that's now incorporated into the legal text. In the Address Paper, there was a leading article that stated that the State Council of Svarstad Haugland ‘trying to sell the proposal by claiming that ‘our concern is to prevent the creation of small campsites in order to keep Sunday open’. Here we're looking at a clarification of a provision that has actually not been a particular dispute before. It's been there the whole time. The councils now see the need to tighten up, although the tightening may seem a bit puzzling compared to what she just said, that the camping season may be all year round. In fact, it is in many parts of the country, for example. in winter sports sites. But are there any major problems that the Council of State has seen, which the Committee has not been made aware of when it comes to camping sites? Does the Council of State have any examples that it could be wrong to leave if this tightening was not now done? In the previous round of the treatment of the opening time law, the Christian People's Party actually went in primarily to let the shops stay open on weekdays by allowing the municipalities themselves to decide the opening time. Has the Christian People's Party and the Council of State abandoned this position? Would they consider that possibility again, because there are actually quite a number of people who have now discovered that the shops are closing at noon. 21 a.m. and 21 a.m. 18 on Saturdays? It does not concern the sanctity, and thus the Christian People's Party should perhaps think about re-promoting its primary proposal. Maybe they would have had a majority for that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e855	The representative of Greece spoke of him as sounding a basic tone from the plural. I don't think we need to say so much, because the minority actually talks to themselves. And when a person uses a leader's article in the Address Paper, as I have also read – one of the very many ironic, hesitant leaders of the articles in the Address Paper – as a basis of truth for his reply, I'm a little in doubt how serious I am actually going to be when I reply. I've read that editorial, and I flirted even though the irony actually went out on myself. It is also a little important for those who are going to propose changes in their laws to look forward. Is there a new point that can be exploited and chattered over? It was then with campsites that one of the areas we saw could be exploited. I have not expressed myself – even though the renter’s article in the Address Paper says it – as I was afraid of small camping sites. But I have said that camping without guests should not be a good enough basis for Sunday sleep. There we have defined it, so we might avoid a new problem that could have been raised if we hadn't. So we weren't foresight when we didn't remove the traffic node in the previous round. That exception had also worked for many years without anyone having taken advantage of it. But we know that some politicians want to point out and tip about what can be exploited, and that some within the commercial industry are exploiting the law. Here we have tried to be in advance this time so that these problems should not arise, and so that we might drop another round here in the Storting with the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e867	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e870	The representative of Aarrestad stated that this law is not perfect. It must be possible to characterize it as the understatement of the year – perhaps even of the century! There is hardly any law that craftsmanship law is so prepared and so little meets what is the majority's intention with the law, like this one. The amendments we are dealing with today probably also confirm – if you can use a picture from the sports world – that once you get out of the hope, it tends to become crooks and crooks in the sleep. What is the problem with this law is that there is no connection whatsoever between the intentions behind it, which is always declared to be two, namely that there should be a difference between weekend and day-to-day and that you should take care of the interests of the employees, and the means by which you use it. The majority have already had plenty of time and opportunity to find that the instrument is hopeless! It is and will be condemned to fail to try to regulate in detail by law people's behaviour in this area. It's actually -- if you put it into a historical perspective -- the last spasm of state pieticism from the 1700s, in a secularized version, we see in this law. At that time it was possible to regulate people's behaviour by means of detailed provisions on what you are allowed to do on public holidays and what you are not allowed to do on public holidays. To believe that it is possible to regulate people's behavior in that way by the end of the 20th century is at best naive. The only way to achieve this is to undermine the general respect both for legislation and for the legislator. There is no reason to point moral pointers at trade or others because they exploit the uncertainties present in a law. That index finger must be directed at the legislator who has created the ambiguity and invites to tactical behaviour. The problem is that this whole law invites you to act. The law is, in its form, distorting competition because, through the criteria it uses, it confers advantages on certain established commercial interests. An opinion poll some time back showed a pretty interesting result. It showed that there is a large majority of the Norwegian people who agree with the intention of wanting to differ on weekends and weekdays. And it was an even greater majority who declared that they didn't have the slightest faith in the opening time law we've been given, the so-called Brustadbua. I have to say this in favour of opinion, because there is really a very good agreement between the two positions. You want the intention, but you have no faith in this instrument. And the reason why you don't have faith in it is so far I can understand that the criteria that the law itself uses are purely arbitrary. Floor square meters, loose wordings about the size of campsites and camping season length without precision are a form of legislation that is apprehended directly out of the air. It is not justified by reason, nor is it likely that this is a law that will succeed in regulating people's behaviour. When maps and terrain do not match, the answer to that is usually not to insist on doing anything about the terrain. The reasonable thing is to assume that there is something wrong with the map. And the map doesn't get any better by trying to do it even more in detail, as this proposal does. From today's debate it can be seen that only one of the three governmental parties believes in this law with the clarifications, and then it is a halfhearted agreement on the part of the Workers' Party. The reality is that there is no majority in this Chamber who have the slightest belief that this law will exist for many years. I have to say, I meet with pleasure the day you surrender and instead leave to people's common sense to choose how you want to behave.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e890	The debate on substance is closed. 11 is over. [[See page 689]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e903	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-11.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e943	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e950	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e956	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Finn Kristian Marthinsen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right and Center Party proposal No. 2, by Ane Sofie Tmærås on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 3, by Jørn L. Stang, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 4, from Jørn L. Stang on behalf of the Progress Party The President will first refer to proposal No. 2, which reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to return quickly to the Storting with proposals to give the borrower the right of pre-emption when the claim is transferred. ‘... The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e979	President!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e986	Would you like an explanation of vote? The President hopes that he can guide the various parties during the voting, and if there is a point of leaping, Ågot Valle can ask for the word – this to save time. Mr Valle still has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e991	I have a great deal of understanding of that, but both in this case and in another case, we must be allowed to make an explanation of vote, because we have not taken part in the debate. I would ask the SV Group to vote in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Center Party, and against the proposals No. 3 and 4 from the Party of Advancement and the Right and the Party of Advancement respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e998	Yes, then the SV's group has received that guidance, and the president expects it to be sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e1612	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e1680	Here the Christian People's Party, the Right Party, and the Center Party have announced their opposition. It is also accepted by SV.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e1708	The Progress Party has announced that it will go against the first sentence of the fifth paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e1721	The other paragraphs and sentences of Section 48 are addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e1768	To the second sentence of the third subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: « Paragraph 50, third paragraph, second sentence, shall be replaced by the following:A shorter period may be used when interest rate changes occur as a result of changes in money market interest rates, bond interest rates or the general level of interest on the deposits of institutions. ‘... Alternatively, the second sentence of the third paragraph of the adjustment shall be replaced by the proposal of the Party of Progress.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e1786	The other paragraphs and sentences of Section 50 are taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e1930	The President here would like to vote alternately between the vote and proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: « Paragraph 59, second paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: If the lender, prior to the conclusion of a suretyship agreement or before the loan is paid, must understand that there is a significant risk that the borrower will not be able to meet his obligations under the loan agreement, the lender shall notify the cashier in writing. [[2]] If the lender fails to do so, the guarantor's liability may be reduced to the extent that relaxation is reasonable. The second term is going to be the third term. ‘... This proposal concerns Section 59, second paragraph, but is an alternative to what has now become the suspension proposal for a decision under Section 60. Therefore, there is an alternative between Section 60 of the adjustment and Proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e2477	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e2484	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e2490	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Ane Sofie Tömrås on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 2, by Jørn L. Stang, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right-wing Proposal No. 3 and 4, by Finn Kristian Marthinsen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party proposal No 5, by Jørn L. Stang on behalf of the Progress Party The President will first refer to the proposals No. 1 and 2. Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, says: ‘The decision asked the Government to determine different ways in which there are sufficient values in bankruptcies to enable it to operate properly. ‘... Proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The cancellation asks the Government to assess the amount of the payment for the provision of guarantees for the cost of accommodation [[Republic responsibility]] These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The President assumes that Ågot Valle feels the need to give a brief explanation of vote here as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e2522	In this case, we will follow the Christian People's Party and the Central Party and vote in favour of proposals Nos 3 and 4 and against proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e2720	The President will then vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, to the new § 6-4 of the mortgage law, which is now supported by the Socialist People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Law of 8 February 1980 No. 2 in the case of mortgages, the following change is made:New § 6-4 is replaced by: § 6-4. Statutory mortgage for the bankruptcy residence. [[1]] The bankruptcy residence has legal pledges in any pledged property belonging to the debtor at the time of opening the contract. The contract shall constitute five per cent of the imputed value of the property or of a sale of the property. The Pantheon is in favour of all other confiscations in the property, including other statutory pledges. [[2]] Any pawnbroker or other interested party may redeem the property. [[3]] For the purpose of calculating the value of economic assets, the conditions at the date of valuation shall be taken into account. The estate or the person who will redeem the right to pledge the property may require the value of the property determined by the change of title. As a result of the valuation, the change of ownership may obtain the fare covered by the stay. In exceptional cases, the change of jurisdiction may provide for the valuation to take place when the fare is changed, cf. Law of the Change § 125. In this case, the right of replacement may also provide compensation for the discretionary persons who deviate from the rates otherwise applicable in the event of a change of fare. [[4]] The replacement tariff may not be over-tested above tariff. The person who redeems the mortgage enters into his or her priority for a corresponding amount. The redeemer's contract shall be governed by the rules relating to the contractual pledge in the case of future property and shall be deemed to be formed at the time of payment. As soon as possible and in any case before the good is placed or transferred to the pledge holder, the governor shall ensure that the lien is given legal protection in accordance with the general rules. [[5]] If the insured amount is not paid willingly to the dwelling within the time limit agreed or fixed by the replacement right, the stay may require the property sold in accordance with the rules of Section 8-15 of the Coverage Act. [[6]] If a good then belonging to the debtor is sold within the last three months before the due date, the right of replacement may be declared to pay five per cent of the sum of the sale to the estate of the pledged garden(s) which have been covered but which would not have been covered if the estate had received five per cent of the sum of the sale. [[7]] This does not apply, however, if the sale has been made in the course of normal and prudent operations. The rules of this paragraph shall apply mutatis mutandis in the case of a public change of insolvent residence and other restrictions resulting from an agreement with a foreign country. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e2775	The President will vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party, to Section 1. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Law of 8 June 1984 No. 58 on indebtedness and bankruptcy are amended as follows: § 1 is replaced by the following: A debtor who is unable to fulfil his obligations looks as if they are due or whose assets are not sufficient to cover his obligations fully may request the opening of proceedings for indebtedness under the law to negotiate with the creditors of his claims a voluntary arrangement or a coercive agreement. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e4459	The President will then vote on proposal No. 4 from the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, supported by the Socialist Left Party, to New Section 177a, fifth paragraph, second sentence of the bankruptcy law. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Law of 8 June 1984 No. 58 on debt negotiation and bankruptcy are amended as follows: ‘The second sentence of Section 177a of the fifth paragraph is replaced by the following:The director receives the purchase price from the purchaser and distributes the amount between the rightholders in the subject-matter according to their priorities after deduction of the mortgage law § 6-4. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e5071	The President will take note of a correction here. The Roman numeral relating to the entry into force and the transitional provisions shall be XIII, not XII, as it stands. It is voted on by No. One, two, three, four, five.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e5082	To No 6 there is an aberrant proposal, No. 4, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, supported by the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘XII No 6 is replaced by the following:6. Otherwise, the law also applies to agreements concluded before their entry into force. However, in the case of such agreements, the law of 8 February 1980 shall no longer apply. 2 on mortgages § 6-4 first applied where the claim for debt for action or bankruptcy comes to the right of replacement later than 3 years after the entry into force of the law and in a residence where the death takes place later than 3 years after the entry into force of the law. ‘... The number of Romans here is also going to be XIII. Alternatively, there is a vote between the number of the setting. 6 and the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e5102	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e5109	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e5119	The proposal under B will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e5125	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1, 3 and 4, by Tor Nymo on behalf of the Central Party, proposal No. 5, by Mr Ågot Valle on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 4 replaces proposal No. 2, deleted. Proposal No. One, from the Center Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out an evaluation of the application of the term ‘public order’, cf. Article 27(j) of the Foreign Act after two years. ‘... Proposal No. Three, from the Center Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Grand Duchy with an evaluation of the amendment of the law to allow foreign police to be armed during persecution and observation in Norway. ‘... Proposal No. Four, from the Center Party, it's like: ‘The Government is asking the Government to develop guidelines to ensure that Norway can reserve itself, as far as possible, against foreign police being armed during observation on Norwegian territory. Article 40(1) Point 3(d) of the Schengen Convention. ‘These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e5510	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e5519	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e5526	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e5712	Here too, the Socialist Left wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e5720	The President will vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party, to the second paragraph of § 47. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 47, second paragraph, points (e) and (f) of the Foreign Affairs Act shall be replaced by the following:(e) for the purpose of winning, assists the foreigner to reside illegally in the State; or(f) for the purpose of winning helps the foreigner to enter the State illegally ’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e5810	The President will draw attention to two corrections under Section 47. In the first line, the word ‘new’ shall be deleted to read ‘Section 47, third paragraph, shall be replaced by ‘Furthermore, there is a typing error in the second line, where ‘blr’ shall be corrected to ‘blr’. The Socialist Left also wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e5902	The Socialist Left also wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e5911	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e5918	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e5924	During the debate, Mr L. Stang put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e5947	There is an alternative proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Act of 10 February 1967 on the procedure of administrative proceedings, Section 11(b) is replaced by the following: § 11(b) [[Deadlines for administrative proceedings]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e5981	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e5988	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6037	The party of progress and the Right has announced that they are against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6048	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right will also oppose this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6059	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6201	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6208	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6214	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 3, by Per Roar Bredvold, on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Ola T. Loans on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6232	The President will first vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «Ot.prp. No 58 on amendments to the Law of 4 December 1992 No 127 on broadcasting, etc. - Not acceptable. [[1998-99]] ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6266	The President has understood that the Progress Party here wants to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6288	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: « § 3-1 new third paragraph is replaced by the following:Television broadcasters cannot send advertising for life's views or political messages. This also applies to text television.The current § 3-1 third paragraph becomes the fourth paragraph. ‘... The Progress Party and the Right have notified that they support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6307	I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6314	Neither do the vocal metals agree with what should be the result, so the president will allow this to happen again. So we have to vote alternately between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party. The Progress Party and the Right have notified that they support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6328	The President will then vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: « § 3-1 new last sentence in the new third paragraph is replaced by the following:The prohibition does not apply to companies which, according to §1-1, operate close broadcasting. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6377	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President has understood that the Advance Party and the Right want to vote against. The vote boards showed that 55 votes were cast for and 18 votes against the law's title and the law as a whole. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 21.11.52]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6388	What we voted on now was broadcasting law. The right was not going to vote against broadcasting law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6395	The President assumes that with that explanation of vote there will be no change in the result.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6398	We have to take the vote again. I'm guessing several were wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6405	It seems that Right-wing representatives are somewhat confused tonight. We can certainly take the vote again. So here it is only the Progress Party that is going to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6416	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6485	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6661	In the case of II, the Workers' Party has notified that they go against the section 14-18 heading, and it is therefore only argued above it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6672	It shall be counted against the other paragraphs of paragraph II and of paragraph III.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6680	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President has some doubts about the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left wants to vote against the law's heading and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6685	We don't want to. It's a mix of the People's Security Act and the Cash Support Act.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6692	Okay.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6699	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6705	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose the repeal of the Opening Time Act. ‘... This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6734	The President will first vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, to Section 3, first paragraph, No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: « § 3. Sales outlets exempted from §2.The provisions on general opening hours in § 2 do not apply to: First paragraph no. 1 is replaced by the following: points of sale which essentially sell kiosk or groceries or petrol, oil and other goods necessary for the operation or maintenance of motorised clothing and motorboats and which have a total sales surface not exceeding 150 sqm. 'The right has notified that they support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6783	The party of progress, the Right, the Socialist Left and the Left have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6816	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Left will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower-2.ana.ud777e6827	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
