ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e49	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Progress Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Center Party 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Cross-Political People's Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with a reply following the intervention of the main speaker from each party group and on contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e58	In 1989, Harlem Brundtland, a government, created a selection to assess the incorporation of human rights conventions into Norwegian law. The selection presented its position in NOU 1993:18. The selection of the proposed amendment to the Constitution that imposes on the government the obligation to respect and safeguard human rights. The suggestion was processed in the past. S. No 172 for 1993-94 and the rule entered in Constitution §110 c. The Bondevik government has now made proposals, in line with the selection's recommendations, to legislate and strengthen its individual rights through Norwegian law. It is therefore a historic day when the Stortinget today strengthens its individual rights in Norwegian law. The new law established that the European Convention on Human Rights and the two UN Conventions, on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and Civil and Political Rights, shall apply as a law to the extent that they are binding on Norway. There's a collection of justice at the back; everyone's agreed to incorporate these conventions into Norwegian law. It implies a new legal situation based on the overriding objective of strengthening the legal position of individuals. This is also the aim: to introduce the same practices as those of the Strasbourg Court of Justice and other international enforcement bodies. In this context, the Judicial Committee stresses the freedom of the courts themselves to make independent interpretation of international practice, and that this freedom will naturally have consequences when it is due to be subject to future Norwegian judicial decisions from the period before that incorporation. This freedom of Norwegian courts to interpret and focus on international practices must, in principle, also include decisions taken in countries other than Norway. This is in reality the same practice as the courts today in interpreting and making use of Norwegian laws. It will interpret the international status in the field of human rights. The Committee expects us to reduce the risk of Norwegian judgments being subjugated by the Strasbourg Court or other international enforcement bodies because they must be viewed as contrary to human rights. The Committee stresses that these three conventions we incorporate into Norwegian law today are a democratic, moral and ethical guide for a more fair society, for the development of the world and for a global responsibility for exposed people. The aim of the promise is to strengthen the individual's position in Norwegian law, but I would like to stress that I expect that this will also appear in our actions against individuals in our own country. Appreciating the individual human being and putting this at the centre of all our actions will provide the groundwork for understanding and respect for the cultural expressions of other peoples, gaining knowledge of people's manners, traditions, ways of thinking and values, and it will strengthen communication between peoples and countries. All the talk today about globalisation is just about this. Values, ethics and respect for individuals are part of this. It is therefore within the individual state that individuals or minorities are given their rights either respected or violated. Today's action under the lines that Norwegian government takes the rights of individuals seriously. It will, as I said, strengthen the legal security of our citizens, but not least give us confidence in our international work. Even if we as countries have ratified these conventions for a good time again, we can now rightly raise the banner of democracy and human rights internationally. That's why it's a joyous day for Norwegian authorities, but mostly for all those who in all these years have fought for Norway to go to this step. Between these, both individuals and organisations have worked for this goal without giving up. It is good for a democracy that there is always someone who is impatient to move on in the work of one's right. A joint committee has concluded that only these three mentioned conventions are incorporated into Norwegian law in this process, but the committee is divided into several and a minority when it comes to the progress of new conventions. The majority, from the Labour Party and the Right, think that there are some conventions that stand out in particular, e.g. The UN Children's Convention and the UN Convention on Women's Discrimination. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which was signed for approx. 10 years ago, one of the most important travel hubs for raising children’s and young people’s rights worldwide and for international cooperation in this field into the year 2000. Strengthening children's rights and living conditions is one of the biggest challenges facing us as a country with other countries. It is important to establish that the rights of children, not parents or others, are decisive in relation to this right. At the beginning of a new millennium, initiatives are required not to exploit children and young people in different ways, to engage in sexual assaults or to engage in war, for example. for the part that we see in many of the wars that take place around the world. When it comes to human rights violations today, children and women are particularly affected in many parts of the world. For us in the Labour Party, it is important that Norway should pay particular attention to combating discrimination against children and women in all areas, nationally and internationally. For this reason, I am pleased that the Right Party also makes a clear statement that both the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Women's Convention are fundamental to the human rights conventions. The UN also decided, just before Easter, to extend the Women's Convention, in order to give women the individual right to promote their affairs, which Norwegian authorities should also include in the further work of having these two conventions incorporated into the human rights law as soon as possible, in line with their multi-annual requirements. The fact that the government party is unable to comply with this requirement now, it seems strange, because the Waksenå Declaration, which is the government document for the Bondevik government, has a point that the Government will soon incorporate the UN Children's Convention into Norwegian law. As case spokesman, there are in addition two conventions I allowed myself to mention, which Norwegian authorities should consider giving the same status. It is the torture and racial discrimination conventions. With the background of our culture and tradition, it would be unnecessary to give these examples in Norwegian law, but the symbolic effect is also important when it comes to these two conventions. Even if we have created centres against ethnic discrimination, it is important to assert these important principles in our legislation. It's seeing events around us these days. But the Committee stresses, when we now transpose the human rights conventions into Norwegian law, that there is no automatic way that this will lead to increased knowledge of individual rights. For this reason, the Committee stressed the need for a special effort to build up national competences. A joint committee points out that information, education and education are among the most important tools that can be used to protect and promote the rights of individuals in our country. The Committee has stressed that all training, from kindergarten to primary and higher education, should have a general knowledge of human rights. In addition, it is important to ensure the basic knowledge of people working with people in the education, social and health sectors, in the police, in prison, among the judiciary and law enforcement. It may seem extensive and unnecessary in view of the fact that many people believe that we as a nation are democratically built up with a good justice system. Similarly, I would say that it is necessary to put the spotlight on our education within the areas that I call, which in turn will lead to greater security for individuals in our country and give individuals who work with or for individuals, a security and competence that we as the authority I believe should be present in our society. The authorities, too, need to have external competence in this field, in relation to both legislation and other fundamental issues relating to the rights of individual citizens. A Joint Committee therefore demands that funds be made available to the Institute for Human Rights at the University of Oslo. The Committee sees that this institute can both provide information, initiate teaching for students and start continuing training for present-day lawyers. This is important to promote our international position in this area, but also to ensure that we nationally live up to the requirements of these conventions. In order to ensure that this important work is started, a Joint Committee of the Government is asked to work out an overarching action plan for information, education and training in order to protect and promote human rights in Norway. I assume, of course, that Bondevik's government is following this call as soon as possible and submit such a plan to Stortinget in an appropriate way. With a government that would otherwise focus on value issues, I assume that it is a pleasure to be charged with this, while allowing one to have its own department and government councils to deal with value issues. There is, in fact, a great deal of political agreement to introduce this amendment, which is of great principle value. The UN Conventions on Human Rights, adopted more than 50 years ago, represent timeless assessments. They are, as said before, a democratic, moral and ethical guide for all fair societies, for the development of the world and for a global responsibility to protect exposed people. When we move into 2000, it is more important than anything to reinforce these values, and that responsibility lies with each country. So it's a historic day that we incorporate these three conventions into Norwegian law. We owe it to the growing family, they are the ones who are going to pass on our democratic values and, not least, use them for the benefit of their fellow human beings and the development of society. I am therefore pleased that we have made it possible for them to pass on this legacy through today's decision. Strengthening human rights is not least important in today’s situation in Europe, where we see major abuses against individuals — abuses that in turn lead to great suffering and go out on innocents and not least children and women.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e98	Today, three human rights conventions are incorporated into a separate human rights law. It is, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, very joyful. What makes this human rights law so important? We have also been obliged to the human rights conventions in the past. Well, this law of human rights is important because it makes the European Convention on Human Rights and the two UN conventions on economic, social and cultural rights and civil and political rights to Norwegian law, which in turn means strengthening human rights. Emphasising and stressing the importance of human rights in this way is an essential signal — both to ourselves here in Norway and to the outside world. We still see that human rights are being broken. The signal effect of our decision today is important. It's a long process that's now ending with this proposition. Already in NOW 1993:18, the so-called Möse Committee proposed which human rights conventions should be converted into Norwegian law, and how this should happen. The Christian People's Party would like to pay tribute to the Government because it had made the proposition so quickly after it joined. The proposal has aroused great enthusiasm in the human rights community and corrected a situation that many have felt burdensome and regrettable. We know that Norway was one of the few countries in Europe that had not incorporated one or more human rights conventions into their legislation. This situation has now been corrected. That the Government proposed just these three conventions, and the great support the proposal has received in the Storting, makes this a brand day for all human rights supporters. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the great support the Stortinget has given to the Government in this matter. It's basically a unanimous committee all the way. We are also pleased that the Storting supports the Government in the proposal on how the human rights conventions should be incorporated into the legislation – i.e. by incorporation. This is the way in which most other countries have transposed the European Convention on Human Rights. However, the Christian People's Party will not ignore the fact that in the future – for other conventions – it may also be relevant to use transformation, i.e. a national language theme representation, instead of incorporation. The manner in which it is to be used is something that needs to be assessed in detail in the individual case. It's been discussed which conventions should be incorporated. This is not a simple question, but the Christian People's Party supports the Government in the assessment that has been made, namely that the main conventions are incorporated in the first place. We would stress that this does not mean that the special conventions are not important – because they are! But many difficult demarcation questions would arise if one began to assess whether some and, if so, what specific conventions were to be included in the incorporation. Such a discussion would certainly have delayed the entire work. Now it has been important, first of all, to incorporate the main conventions, and then we will continue to work on the special conventions in the future. The Christian People's Party will also – without mentioning concrete conventions – point out that there are many important special conventions. We trust that the Government will continue to assess whether and in which case specific conventions should be incorporated into Norwegian legislation. We would also like to stress that the Government has stated that the Convention on the Rights of the Child becomes a special feature, and that the work on incorporating it into Norwegian law will be a priority. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to stress that there should initially be no conflict between Norwegian law and the Human Rights Act. However, if that is the case, Section 3 of the Human Rights Act provides that the provisions of those conventions and protocols shall prevail over other legislation. We believe this is a straightforward rule that clears up the doubts that may arise. The Christian People's Party, together with the rest of the Committee, has underlined the importance of information, education and education as one of the most important means of protecting and promoting human rights. The authorities should therefore include active information on the subject in order to make it available to most people. The Internet is an important tool. It is also important that the Conventions are available in both Norwegian and English. The Christian People's Party will also highlight the importance of giving basic knowledge of human rights in school and education, and for some education, human rights should be made a subject of their own. The Committee has also underlined the importance of the work carried out by the Institute for Human Rights. The Christian People's Party hopes that the decision of the Storting today will make us all more aware of the individual's rights and position in society and make our world a slightly better place to live.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e124	Norway is particularly good at addressing human rights violations in other countries; we often like to moralize and present ourselves as better than most. Then it is important to keep order in your own house, and it is striking that Norway is one of the last countries in Europe to now integrate human rights into its law. I hope we don't give up there, but that we actually use this opportunity to focus on how we in Norway guarantee the security and self-determination of our citizens in important areas. The Committee is unanimous in its desire to integrate the parts of human rights recommended by the Government, so I will not dwell on it any more. But there are two areas in particular I would like to highlight where, in my opinion, we have so far not guaranteed the human rights of our citizens well enough. Children have a specific requirement for protection against decisions and abuses that are contrary to children’s feelings, desires and rights of participation. In child distribution matters, children’s own wishes are given too little weight, and the Children’s Ombudsman tells of crying children around the country’s airports who do not want to be coerced as a package for different weekend stays. In Bergen, the media has made known a case in which an eight-year-old boy, who has lived with his grandmother all his life, is forced to move to his former drug addict mother. This happened in violation of the boy's feelings, desires and need for security. The boy wasn't old enough to be a legal entity of his own, that is. through the courts to express their views as a separate party in their own lives. The general discussion did not take account of Odelsting’s clear position from 1992-93 on children’s rights to their own spokesperson in such cases, and the boy was overrun. From Haugesund, another "grandmother thing", where three children who wanted to live with their grandmother, in agreement with their drug addict mother, were split up and sent to three different foster homes against their will, against their wishes and against their right to be heard. The oldest boy was old enough to run trial as his own legal entity, and he won over child protection. He got to stay with Grandma. The two younger brothers continue to live in each of their homes, they were rejected by the judiciary because of age, despite the fact that their own desires and feelings are crystal clear. In both of these cases, there was nothing to say about Grandma's fitness. In such cases, the state, in my opinion, commits an infringement against the children, contrary to my understanding of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. They are deprived of their right to be taken seriously, we have given the bluff in their feelings, love and belongings. That's why I want the Children's Convention integrated as part of the Human Rights Act, so that children can become their own legal entity. We must demand that the councillors leave the right to their own spokesperson to become a reality – not a paper determination. The judges must be able to emphasise their common sense in such matters, because the rights of the child will then be more strongly prejudiced than they are today. This does not mean that children should always decide for themselves, but they must be better heard and taken into account. The Children's Ombudsman knows these matters, the Red Child knows these matters, and both of these organisations have underlined in consultations with the Committee as clearly as they can that the Convention on the Rights of the Child must be involved in the legal integration. Fortunately, the Labour Party and the Right have taken responsibility for the fact that this today has a majority in Stortinget. The Children's Convention is not a special convention. There's nothing weird about being a child. Childhood hits us all. Every human being on earth is a child. In some countries, you are a child half your life — in Norway, you may be a quarter of your life. But there's nothing strange about it, and I don't think there's any special convention. The second issue I want to address specifically is the problem of coercive drug use among young immigrants. There has been a significant level of marriages made under violence, coercion and various forms of pressure in Norway, and the Government has put in place a separate action plan against coerciveness. The right to choose a spouse is fundamental, and we can only imagine how a youth grew up in Norway, with Norwegian culture and self-determination values, feels the prospect of sharing the rest of his life with someone they absolutely do not want to marry. In such cases, a young person is reduced from an independent individual to a kind of merchandise. This is not about culture – it's about human rights. There is an abundance of human rights violations worldwide, and this is always defended by cultural traditions. That's why we have human rights, to have one's value system for what we all have the right to, and what we have the right to escape, regardless of cultural differences. There is a moving transition between coercive marriages and arranged marriages, because it is also not possible to use pressure or various forms of coercion in arranged marriages. It is difficult to draw absolute limits; the limit must be drawn on a case-by-case basis. It is therefore important to prevent forcibly making young people aware of human rights, and it is important that the judiciary be able to abolish such invalid marriages. Forced marriages may be invalidated in Norway if the marriage has been concluded in Norway. The penalty period for enforcement shall be up to three years. However, once the marriage has been concluded before he came to Norway and in countries that approve forced marriage, it is all the more complicated. In that case, strong social and ethical reasons must be provided for in order to be able to bring an action before the courts. Because human rights are crystal clear at this point, it is important to get these integrated into Norwegian law. The UN Convention on Women's Discrimination states in Article 16 that States are obliged to ensure that women and men have: "the same right freely to choose a ghost and to enter into marriage only with their free and full concentrate. ‘... That is why I am very pleased that the Right and the Labour Party today ensure a majority that the Equality Convention should also be integrated into the Human Rights Act. This ‘no marriage must be concluded without the free and unconditional consent of the future spouses’ is also mentioned in the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights, which we decide to integrate today, Article 23.3. Since human rights are to prevail in front of other Norwegian laws, it also strengthens the ability of the courts to respond on behalf of young people who have been pressured into marriage. Many times it takes a long time to correct injustice for us politicians. We often react with outrage and feelings in situations we experience as completely unreasonable. Then it's good to be able to secure the majority for a step in the right direction through the law, as we have the authority to, even though we recognize that there is a lot of practical follow-up left before we're in the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e171	Today, we will make a very important decision in this Chamber when we strengthen the rights of individuals by incorporating the most important and universal human rights conventions into Norwegian law, or rather, the European Convention on Human Rights of 1950 and the two 1966 UN conventions. This will give an important signal to individuals and institutions within the country, but even more important is the signals we send out of the country. The new law will more fully guarantee the rights of individuals to State abuse, while Norway can point to violations of human rights in other countries with greater legitimacy. There are a lot of good reasons why we are going to adopt the legislative proposal here. Firstly, what Norway is now doing in the context of strengthening human rights, in principle, should be something any state has done. Human rights and respect for them are given a much stronger position when this is enshrined in national law, despite the fact that both Norway and a lot of other countries have signed the three conventions we are talking about here. In addition, we have already stated in the Basic Law § 110c that it is up to the state authorities to guarantee human rights. It seems unreasonable that Norway should be one of the few countries in Europe that have not incorporated human rights conventions into national law. At the legal level, too, there are several factors that suggest that this should now become Norwegian law, not least because the country is already bound by the conventions, and has been so for a long time. The decision we are making today will make the Conventions explicitly operational for Norwegian courts, and the rules of the Conventions will be removed from what may be perceived as the fog country of the Treaties, which imposes on the use of the rights and freedoms of the Conventions in Norwegian courts. In addition, clearer driving rules in relation to the Conventions will prevent or at least reduce any grounds for appeal by the Norwegian State to the international human rights bodies. An even more important aspect is that it seems unreasonable that the Supreme Court should not have the same authority as international bodies. We should and we should have the same confidence in our Supreme Court as in the International Court in The Hague. The Committee broadly supports the decisions to be taken today and has also jointly endorsed a proposal to improve the knowledge of human rights. This is very important, and the action plan the Committee asks the Government to draw up in relation to this point should, in my view, be available as soon as possible. But on a material point, the Committee has shared. Let me immediately submit that this division is probably first and foremost related to the perception of how the incorporation of human rights conventions can be implemented in the best possible way for all parties, and that this must not be perceived as any party in this room is more concerned with human rights than others. As you know, the government has not proposed to incorporate so-called special conventions, such as: The ILO Convention and the Women’s Discrimination Convention. The centre party believes that it has been a wise assessment. The Government's proposal is to incorporate the three conventions perceived as the most important and the most universal, the 1950 European Convention on Human Rights and the 1966 United Nations Conventions. By stopping the more universal conventions, there is no danger of making the entire law untransparent, nor of helping to create the impression that some specific conventions are more important than others. I believe that at least at first you will be better served to limit this to the three main conventions. I have noticed the committee leader's strong commitment to incorporate the Children's Convention. She stated that the Children's Convention was not a special convention. But according to that lecture and the manuscript we have received from the Supreme Justice, he defines that convention as a special convention. The reason why we, that is. the minority, in this round, does not also want to include the two conventions that the majority here favour, is that we believe that the implementation of the Great Britain should not now be delayed for the sake of the special conventions. And my question could also be, Why have two of those conventions been included? Why do you have, for example, not included in the United Nations Convention on Racial Discrimination, the ILO Convention on Unpopulation Rights, etc. ?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e186	The theme of human rights is a theme that deserves a lot of attention. It's a theme that we want to make important contributions to. But, as everyone knows, SV has been involved with others, but in relation to this topic the most relevant debates, therefore we have not been able to work well enough on the matter, but we promise to come back strongly later. Compliance with human rights is the basis of a humane life. Nordahl Grieg said it this way: «If we create human dignity, we create peace. ‘Human rights are absolutely fundamental to democracy and so that everyone can have equal opportunities to live their lives as whole people. Therefore, all must be guaranteed protection against torture and other forms of impairment of integrity, freedom of expression and organisation, right to privacy, right to work, right to social protection and education and the right to a satisfactory standard of living. But the human world is in many places invaded by war, terror and dictatorship, and here as elsewhere in the world by an increasingly greedy turbocapitalism. The UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights requires a strong public safety network. The pressure to slim down the public economy, the welfare state and the welfare community is increasing when market forces are freed to control, as they do, and we believe that the majority of the population here is tilting. In this case, a central principleal strengthening of the position of human rights in Norwegian law is proposed. And it's time. As so many others have said, it is a fact that Norway is one of the few countries in Europe that have not made human rights international law. Furthermore, Odelstinget now decides that the Conventions should prevail over other provisions of the Norwegian law when they conflict. That's good, but it's asked if this has more value as a strong signal than as a reality. And neither the law nor the preprocessor takes a direct position on the so-called wave of cardboard, which the Supreme Court declared in 1994. Thus, in the opinion of many skeptics, it will be up to the law's authoritative interpreter, the Supreme Court, to determine the importance of human rights. I challenge the Minister of Justice to give some consideration here. SV agrees with the majority that both the UN Children’s Convention and the Women’s Convention must now be incorporated into the Human Rights Act. We give praise both to the Working Party and to the Right for being awake here. We will vote in favour of the proposal, and we will be vigilant that'reasonable time' does not mean winter and spring. The UN Women's Convention is not a special law. First, women are half the population. With the women's glasses on, it is easy to see that the Human Rights Convention does not take good account of the fact that women are discriminated against in all areas of life. Therefore, the Women’s Convention requires equal rights for women and men. We in Norway can boast of being a forerunner, and for this very reason it is important that Norway transforms the Convention into Norwegian law. But we in Norway also have a good way to go before resources, work, wages, power and time are equally distributed between women and men, and I also want to remind you of the problem of violence against women. SV agrees with Redd Barna that the Children's Convention belongs to the root of human rights conventions. SV will be involved in giving a serious signal that children’s rights are to be taken seriously. Incorporating is important because the Convention on the Rights of the Child confers special rights on children which they do not have under other conventions. It is important that we give special attention and special protection to children through legislation. These include: through Norwegian legislation that we can ensure the implementation of the rights that children are entitled to under the Children’s Convention. I would like to commend the representative from the Right, Kristin Krohn Devold, for a solid argument that the Children's Convention must be incorporated. I also agree with the rapporteur that racial discrimination and torture conventions should be incorporated. The debate on the position of human rights in Norway and Norwegian law is not over, but will and will continue. The Human Rights Act will be a good starting point for further debate and commitment, and we are taking part in it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e205	The fight for human rights is about protecting the individual from oppression and abuse, but also against poverty, economic exchange and unworthy living conditions. Each individual, man, woman and child, is unique, with inviolable rights. It's about human dignity, it's about personal integrity, and it's about the responsibility of the authorities. The 1998 annual report on Norwegian action on human rights states, among other things: in the introduction: «Human rights are not an attitude or a more or less distant ideal or all that is good for people. Human rights are a set of obligations regarding the standards and standards to be applied by Norway and a number of other countries. It's about the rights of the individual, and it's the state that has taken on the obligation to fulfill and respect the rights. ‘... With the emphasis Norway attaches to the development of human rights in other countries, and with the profile we have — and it is relatively high — it is not unnatural that we now incorporate the European Convention on Human Rights and the two UN conventions into Norwegian law. It is, after reading the vote, nevertheless with a certain interest that I have noticed that the representatives of the government parties in the committee do not want to contribute to the incorporation of the UN Convention against Women's Discrimination into Norwegian law. This is also interesting because representatives of the same parties, including the Minister of Human Rights, have apparently had problems in establishing the absolute fundamental rights of women against, among other things, the requirements of this House. religious groups on religious rights, which are often the exercise of power in the name of religion, and which affect women and inhibit their right to control their own lives and appearance, to choose education, to be active and to make the choice of spouses themselves. I record that the Council of State will have the word after me and will challenge her right at this point. It is appropriate to ask what the Christian People's Party really thinks about this balance between freedom of religion and the absolute right of women according to the Declaration of Human Rights. Are Human Rights Universal? Do they apply to both women and men? If there is any disagreement on this at all, at least the Convention against Women’s Discrimination should be incorporated into Norwegian law. During a hearing on human rights violations in Iran two years ago, I experienced so-called experts, Norwegian experts, who put religious freedom ahead of women's human rights, among others. ‘freedom’ to oblige women to use veils and, inter alia: refuse them work and prevention as part of freedom of religion. In Norway, there are small and strange religious sects that make demands on the appearance, behaviour, function and location of women in society other than men. But we should not accept restrictions on women's and schoolgirls' freedom of action in Norway, whether they are in the Lamb of God Church or in Muslim immigrant families. In the last year, it has been documented that in Norway, there are girls who are subjected to forced marriage, or what I will call arranged marriage by coercion. This type of violation of human rights is totally unacceptable and breaks, among other things. with both Article 13 and Article 16 of the UN Declaration of Human Rights. The Committee itself has cited Article 23(3) of the Convention on Civil and Political Rights. Nevertheless, when we experience human rights experts who practice cultural relativism and believe that we must accept forcibleness as part of freedom of religion, it is necessary that we also incorporate the Women's Convention. So where do we draw the limit? Should we also accept the intersection of women in the name of religion or culture? It might be good to get concrete views from the government fractions on this particular issue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e229	As the Council of State for Human Rights, this is a great day for me. We have waited a long time for this law – too long. As many people know, ten years have passed since work started on the law of human rights. However, it was well worth waiting for. I agree with the rapporteur that this is a historic day. It is also gratifying that a total accumulation ends up incorporating the human rights conventions into Norwegian law. In December last year, the world community celebrated the 50th anniversary of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and right now there are important meetings at the UN Commission on Human Rights in Geneva, where Norway is a member. It is in line with the active Norwegian commitment to strengthening human rights globally, an commitment that has shaped Norwegian foreign policy throughout the post-war period. As the Council of State for Human Rights and Development, I am very concerned to strengthen this international work. Norway is therefore constantly working to build democracy and strengthen human rights within multi-lateral forums such as the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Council of Europe and not least the United Nations. Human rights are also becoming increasingly prominent in development policy and in aid. Norway appears to be a leading country for the protection of human rights, contributing to a high Norwegian profile in this area internationally. By adopting this law, Norway will not only be among the majority of the member countries of the Council of Europe which have taken steps to incorporate the European Convention on Human Rights into their national law. We will also be among the exclusive minority of states that have incorporated both of the 1966 United Nations conventions. This has an important symbol value. However, as Minister of Human Rights, I have also focused strongly on the importance of respect for human rights at home, formally and in practice. This is reflected, inter alia, in: in the statement on the human rights of the Stortingen from last year, where I stressed that we must sweep at our own door, and in the first Norwegian annual report covering the human rights at home and abroad. This is also the background that I personally have been very involved in the process leading up to this bill from the Government. The law, which follows the Government's principle decision that central human rights conventions should be incorporated into Norwegian law, will help to strengthen the position of human rights in Norwegian law. I am particularly pleased that the law has been given a provision that states that if there is a conflict between Norwegian law and one of the incorporated human rights provisions, the human rights rule will prevail. This central rule of priority ensures that the very core of human rights protection, namely the protection of minorities from the decisions of the majority, is safeguarded. There have been questions on several occasions about which conventions should be transposed. The Government has proposed the three considered as the root of global and regional human rights protection. However, the adoption of this proposal does not mean that we are freezing the situation. The work on strengthening human rights is a continuous process, and the natural next step is now to assess the incorporation of other human rights conventions. This will be the subject of a thorough investigation. In the Waxenå Declaration, the Government has stated that the work on the Child Convention should be given priority. We have also announced this in the billing proposal. The work has already begun, and the Government will follow up the decision that will be made here in the Grand Duchy today on the further incorporation of other human rights conventions. Of course, on the question of the Women's Convention, I would like to stress that women's rights are at the heart of the Government's work, and if you want to further address specific questions, I will get back to it later. Let me address another important issue: the Justice Committee has asked the Government to draw up a ‘supervised action plan for information, education and education to protect and promote human rights in Norway. ‘ This will also be followed up by the Government. If acceptable to the Stortinget, the decision on an action plan today will be followed up by the fact that measures for information, education and education in the field of human rights are given a very central place in the human rights action plan announced by the Government to the Stortinget as a key message. In this way, we intend to merge these two action plans and present the Stortinget for a single single document, a single action plan for human rights, which will come to the autumn. It is a paradox that the historic decision of the Stortinget today almost bypasses the silence of Norwegian media and Norwegian opinion and of an almost empty Norwegian staging hall. It may not only have to do with the Gardermoen Summit between key actors in relation to the Kosovo conflict. The Human Rights Act had earned better. Human rights had deserved better. In fact, the law is a happy announcement to the individual in Norway that their human rights have priority, yes, first priority, in Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e252	We have reason to congratulate ourselves today when we finally incorporate these conventions into our legislation, after the first step was taken in 1994 with the addition of the Basic Law § 110c. As our nephew in international law Torkel Opsahl pointed out several times in his lifetime, in the individual state individuals have their rights respected and realised or violated. The international system can only be subsidiary. I hope that this incorporation will result in more people getting their rights. In Norway, we also consider ourselves today bound by human rights and the conventions we have signed and ratified. But now the conventions are given a clear rank before our legislation. This means that human rights are made visible and that it is easier for the Supreme Court to make decisions that are consistent with the Convention. Norway is not exactly familiar with serious or widespread violations of human rights, but it is also not known that we are also being overtramped, as several of the speakers have pointed out. Unfortunately, it is often the case that vulnerable groups are also exposed to human rights violations, such as in the area of mental health protection, child protection and care for the elderly. Unfortunately, we cannot say that human rights have any good conditions around the world. They are massively broken every single day, including by states that have signed and ratified human rights conventions. The closest example of this is, of course, the war in the Balkans. Old Yugoslavia ratified the UN Convention on Human Rights. Nevertheless, we are now presented on a daily basis with the most disturbing human rights violations so close to us on our own continent. The reports have a character that makes us unable to take inward what we are actually hearing about human rights violations. Situations like this make us never have to allow ourselves to give up and settle down and let the effort for human rights become just some fine words on occasions like this. On the contrary, any report of violations of human rights must strengthen efforts to give rights a stronger position both in Norway and internationally. Had these international conventions been taken more seriously in situations where it really is, and had the international sanctioning possibilities been better, yes, many thousands, even millions, of people could have been spared for great suffering. The United Nations Conference in Rome last year, in which there was agreement on a convention on international UN courts of law, is a hot spot in this context. A court where the UN Security Council has the opportunity to raise cases will undoubtedly strengthen the position of human rights. The Security Council may raise cases of genocide and violations of humanitarian rights and war crimes and bring them to justice. Unfortunately, the Convention has not yet entered into force, and the international sanctions and penalties are too poor today. I have a wish and a hope that the international community will put as much wisdom and energy and resources into making the UN's unique tool function as is currently being used by the international community and so many countries to exercise military power and violence. Then we could look forward to a better world.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e267	I am pleased that the Justice Committee is joining the Government's bill to strengthen the position of human rights in Norwegian law. It's an ambitious bill. The law incorporates not only the European Convention on Human Rights but also the two international conventions on civil and political rights and social, economic and cultural rights respectively. We're going further than our neighboring country. Furthermore, it is made clear that the courts should be able to set aside laws which are contrary to the incorporated conventions. The adoption of the law, as the title of the law says, will strengthen the position of human rights in Norwegian law. This will be an important indication of the central position of human rights in Norway. The majority of the Judicial Committee has proposed that the Government be invited to incorporate, within a reasonable period of time, the law into the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the UN Convention on Women’s Discrimination. I have a great deal of understanding of the Committee majority's desire to secure children's and women's rights. This is a goal shared by the Government and certainly also by the minority in the Committee. When the majority has not itself added the two conventions to the list of conventions in the bill under consideration today, I suppose it is because it is desirable for the Government to make an assessment of how best to transpose the conventions. I find that appropriate. Because although incorporation appears in many ways to be simple and effective, it is also detrimental to such a form of transposition. Among other things, the overall regulatory framework becomes less accessible and clear to users. Maybe this is especially true when incorporating more specialised conventions. Let me add that the conventions can – and will – be used as a legal source regardless of their incorporation. The Government is in the process of assessing how best to implement the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I agree with the majority that it will not be the luckiest solution to include the Convention in the Children's Act. With regard to the Convention on Women’s Discrimination, the majority justifies its proposal for inclusion that the right to live, education and the choice of eczema, for example, is a human right and that equality between women and men should be a fundamental right in all societies. I agree with that, and I also agree that this is a right that is worth fighting for. But I would like to stress that other conventions that are not proposed to be incorporated into the Human Rights Act also deal with human rights that are absolutely central, such as: the right not to be discriminated against by race. The point is that these rights, including the right to equality between women and men, also result from the conventions proposed to be incorporated. To sum up at this point, not least in recent weeks the shocking abuse of the Balkans shows the importance of recognising, respecting and ensuring fundamental human rights in practice. This will now be underlined in Norway by the fact that the European Convention on Justice and the two UN Conventions on Civil and Political Rights and Economic, Social and Cultural Rights respectively are rendered Norwegian law. How the other human rights conventions can best be incorporated into the law is a question we need to consider in greater detail, and on which we are actively working, as the Human Rights Minister stressed in his statement. As far as primacy is concerned, I have noticed that the Committee emphasises that the overall objective is that Norwegian case law is as consistent as possible with the international interpretation practice in force at all times. In this context, I would like to stress that it is primarily the responsibility of the Administration and the Storting to ensure that the Norwegian legislation complies with the requirements of the Conventions. Judges and other applicants should be able to find guidance in the preparation of new laws on how legislators have assessed the relationship to the requirements of the Conventions. If a conscientious effort is made when legislative proposals are prepared, the importance of primacy in the application of legislation will hardly be great. This requires a high awareness of the requirements of the Convention among all those involved in the preparation of laws, which brings me to the question of measures to strengthen knowledge of human rights. In this context, I note that the Committee has stressed that the adoption of the law must go hand in hand with measures to ensure the necessary knowledge of the requirements of the human rights conventions, and that the Committee proposes to encourage the Government to draw up an overall action plan for information, education and training in order to protect and promote human rights in Norway. This is otherwise clearly commented by the Council of State Frafjord Johnson, and I will not comment further here. However, at the end of the post I would like to briefly say something about the representative Valle's question to me about the so-called corrugated board. As I understand it, it's about legal rules in the relationship between sources of international law and national law, and how this can affect the processes. I would like to say the following about this: in any case, the courts with the new law will be able to break down human rights law, but I would like to stress that in a regime of peoples it should be primarily the Storting that makes the balances between the different fundamental values that the human rights conventions often require. That's the way we work, and that's actually the way we've been working on the decision we're going to make today. Since many of the representatives have also resorted to luxuriant descriptions to confirm their views, I can reassure everyone that no one in the government constellation is for sexual mutilation, forcible marriage or other human assault. There is every reason to conclude that there is a very broad and solid uprising about the basic principles that everyone here has strongly promoted, and as I think it is good that there is such a great deal of commitment around as what has been expressed in the matter in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e294	The President would like to remind you that the regulatory time for the morning meeting is now over. However, the President will propose that this meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e299	I'll be brief – I'll take the word to clear up a completely obvious misunderstanding. When the representative Nybakk states that the government parties do not want to incorporate the UN Conventions against Women's Discrimination, it is a positive mistake. We have wanted to make the delimitation that we have made, and it can be justified that the three conventions appear to be the main human rights conventions. They are main conventions in terms of both content and subject-circuit. These conventions are based on a principle of universality: the rights are granted to everyone. It is, as stated, these Conventions which are the legal implementation of the 1948 Universal Declaration. That there will now be a requirement to include special conventions, we support and greet with joy. But the point is that we, along with Supreme Justice Carsten Smith, are of that opinion and wish that consideration for the incorporation of these special conventions should not delay the incorporation of the main conventions. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e306	On behalf of the Left, I would like to stress that we strongly agree with those who have during the stretch that this is a brand day in Norwegian law, when we go to the incorporation of the three main conventions on human rights. I think that from this pulpit there can well be expressed a very clear tribute to the Government for having brought Norway in line with other countries, and in advance of many other countries, by incorporating these three conventions. Many countries have been out earlier than us, but there are very many of the countries that have not incorporated as many conventions as we do today. I don't at all think there's any reason to acknowledge to the Government that, in relation to the time that previous governments have had at their disposal when it came to producing a law of incorporation, it has managed to do it as quickly as the Government did, using only one year on this. Previous governments have had a lot of longer time at their disposal to implement a corresponding incorporation. There is further reason to give the Government credit – and today, by the decision we are about to take – for us to go so far as to integrate into Norwegian law, giving priority to conventions in the event of conflict. It's also central and important. I think there is reason to point out that the incorporation that we are doing in this way will have further significance for Norwegian legal development. Although we are in the situation that we allow Conventions throughout to have heavy interpretational significance in the event of possible contradictions, it would be important for us to make an incorporation. I do not think there is any doubt that the increased emphasis that has been placed on human rights in the last 15 years of Norwegian law has already led to a part of this in relation to the past. A previous dogma that Norwegian law was always consistent with human rights has managed to free itself from something, and actually accepted that in some situations it has not been like this. I would also like to say, on behalf of the Left, that we support at least the intentions of the proposal submitted by the majority on the incorporation of several conventions. I have also perceived the two state councils so that in reality that is also the Government's position. I think there's going to be a little pointless debate on terminology about what are common conventions and what are special conventions. There is no reason to make this terminology issue general in relation to the central and important thing that is happening today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e321	I asked for the word to try to clear up a little bit of a misinterpretation that I believe the representative Tor Nymo did in many ways, and that should not be left unattended. High Court Justice Carsten Smith was so loving to come to the committee and lecture us in dealing with the matter, and in that case he left his speech. I quote from the talk to be able to correct some of the things that have been said: ‘If the Justice Department of the Great Britain finds that one or more of these conventions can be included in the law already at this time,’ – and he has previously mentioned the two conventions on women and children – ‘I and many others would like to greet this with joy. ‘... – I think we owe it to Carsten Smith, with a background in what he has otherwise done to incorporate precisely these conventions into Norwegian law. Otherwise, once I have the word, I would point out that I notice that the Council of State Hilde Frafjord Johnson does not answer the question of whether human rights are universal, in relation to women and men. With that in mind, I am very pleased that there is a multiple to incorporate exactly these two conventions that we have now pointed to, in Norwegian human rights law. And with a multiple, we're in the lucky situation that we can say that it's really a historic day we have here in the Storting today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e335	I think it's a little sad that on such an important and historic day, big-time representatives go into such a debate and – I'm sorry, President – on such a level. It should be completely unnecessary for a minister of human rights to have to state that one believes that human rights are universal, that women's rights are of course as important as they have always been, and that we are behind the Women's Convention, as I also stressed in my speech. The reason why I did not choose to use all my small ones, get 5 minutes on this question, is that I consider it of course that it is completely unnecessary to spend the precious time of the Storting to clarify such totally unnecessary conditions. I think we should focus on the fact that this is a historic day, and that we have got a total rise behind a decision that is very important, both for Norwegian law, for the Norwegian political environment and for the individual Nordics.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e342	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 440]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e356	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will, in doubt, propose that there be a change of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each group of parties and after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e367	It is a pleasure for me to present a unanimous opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs on proposals for amendments, inter alia. the criminal law and the criminal law applicable to the withdrawal of dividends. The proposals have their background in a selection set up by the Ministry of Justice of the Harlem Brundtland Government in 1995, with the aim of developing measures to make the withdrawal of dividends or the proceeds of criminal offences a stronger and more effective criminal policy instrument. The Ministry supports the main points of the selection proposal, followed by a unanimous vote here today. The goal is that crime should not pay off. Moreover, profits from criminal acts must not constitute initial capital for new criminal activities. Recovery of profits is of the greatest practical importance in criminal offences that violate public interests, such as: drug offences and infringements of customs legislation in the case of smuggling, but are also relevant in relation to other types of crime with economic benefits. The withdrawal of dividends is an essential element in the fight against profit-based crime and a particularly important instrument against organised crime. Laws that reduce the ability to retain the winnings if discovered could have a clear, preventive effect and raise the threshold for entering such an illegal activity. Most people believe that it is unreasonable for the offender to retain the proceeds of the crime even if he is discovered. At the same time, the rules of law shall give greater opportunity to prosecutors and courts to collect dividends on the basis of criminal acts. It is therefore important that resources be deployed to track down profits from profit-driven crime and that a claim for sequestration be made. So some of the main points in the setting. The Committee agrees that withdrawal shall, as a general rule, take place if the conditions are met. This is in line with the practice of the Supreme Court. The derogation from the general rule on withdrawal may be made when the gain is consumed and intended to have a weak economy. It should also be possible, in the Committee's view, to highlight the need for rehabilitation and that the offender should not be in a situation of indebtedness. The Committee endorses a general rule that withdrawal is to be carried out when someone has violated a criminal order and the offence has resulted in a gain, even if the offence has not been brought to justice and is therefore punishable. Since reasonable doubt is to be met, the current rules can easily lead to the right not being able to assume that the debt claim has been met. However, although he cannot be punished, there is no reasonable reason to maintain the winnings. As a general rule, the gross dividend is withdrawn and the Committee considers that this withdrawal rule should be formalised and continued. The law should therefore take account of the fact that no deduction can be made for expenditure incurred by the offender in implementing the offence. The Committee considers that the ‘clearly unfair’ rule of exception can be applied where the expenditure incurred should be deducted, for example: in the interests of re-socialisation of the offender or in order to avoid double withdrawal. In the Committee's view, there is no reason to relax the requirement of proof on the question of whether profits have been obtained, because this could be too severe. Withdrawal shall be made to the person to whom the dividend has been paid. In addition, a presumption rule is introduced that it is to be considered that the dividend has fallen to the offender if he is not able to prove that the dividend has been passed on to others. It is agreed that the general rule should continue to be that withdrawal should only be possible if the prosecution authority proves the source of the offence. However, the Committee supports the proposal for a new rule of derogation on the extension of the withdrawal of crimes of such a nature that they can yield significant benefits and are of a certain severity. This means that a derogation from the requirement to specify the criminal offence from which the proceeds are derived and a rule that the burden of proof of the possession of the property is placed on the offender. The Committee takes note of the main justification for the new rule that it is consistent with those persons who are guilty of serious offences which normally bring significant profits to bear high values that are likely to result from criminal offences, because the prosecution authority cannot prove the concrete crime from which the property originates. This applies not least to the more professionally organised crime. Under current law, there is already no requirement for the specificity of the criminal offence on the basis of which the proceeds are collected in the case of whole-time money laundering and money laundering. We have noted the arguments put forward by some hearing bodies, for reasons of legal certainty, against the new rules on extended withdrawal. The Ministry bases its proposal that in the cases where the reverse burden of proof rules will be affected, the likelihood of the property being unlawfully acquired is so great that it is both appropriate and reasonable to withdraw the property if the offender is unable to establish that it has been lawfully acquired. Reference is made here to the conditions which must prevail before the reversal of the burden of proof occurs, namely that the prosecution authority has proved that the defendant has committed serious offences which can bring significant benefits. The Committee agrees with this assessment and with these conditions and points out that the new rules will only apply in the case of offences with a penalty framework of six years or more or more than two years or more in the case of repeated cases. Extended withdrawal should be possible only if all the conditions for punishment are met and it should be up to the discretion of the court to judge the extension of withdrawal. I stress that the Ministry has assessed the relationship of the new rules with the Constitution and the Conventions on Human Rights, and concluded that the rules will not conflict with them. The Committee has also noted that other European countries have equivalent rules on the reverse burden of proof. A rule on extended withdrawal could be an important instrument in the fight against the increasing organised and profit-based crime. In the opinion of the Committee, this is the main objective of the legal provision. By introducing such an exemption rule for serious crimes of such a nature that they are capable of yielding significant dividends, the court may now withdraw the dividend even if a concreteisation of the criminal offence is not possible. The offender must also be able to prove for himself that the dividend has been legally acquired if he/she is to avoid withdrawal. In the event of an extended withdrawal from the offender, the Committee considers that consideration should be given to the value of property belonging to the spouse of the offender or to a person with whom he is permanently resident under matrimonial conditions. Derogations should apply if the offender proves that the property has been acquired otherwise than by criminal offences committed by him. This is in order to prevent the circumvention of the extended withdrawal regime in the case of transfers of economic resources to the spouse or the cohabiter, pro forma or, in fact, real terms. But the court may also not here withdraw or limit the withdrawal. Because there is a high risk of different pro forma transfers to related persons in cases that would be relevant in relation to extended withdrawal, where the aim is usually to have a criminal lifestyle, the Committee supports the proposal that withdrawal should also be directly applicable to the target person. However, the right of withdrawal should be more restrictive here than against the offender. In this context, the prosecution authorities must be able to ensure that property originates from a crime, without the need to specify the offence. Under these conditions, the Committee agrees that taking into account effective rules on extended withdrawal, it would also be possible for the withdrawal to be carried out against undertakings to which the offender has a strong relationship. I am pleased to present a unanimous opinion from the Justice Committee on a matter that can become an important element in the fight against profit-based and organised crime. The objective is that dividends from criminal offences should be deducted to a greater extent than is the case today. Crime shall not pay off. I assume that the Government will come back with assessments of the financial and administrative resources that are needed to ensure that the intentions of today's legislative changes are respected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e411	The rules of criminal law on the withdrawal of profits have been and are important rules to prevent crime. The Government's proposal to the Grand Duchy, to which the Grand Duchy has largely joined unanimously, involves important and bold changes to these rules – changes that will lead to an even more effective response to criminals. In the following I just want to comment on the selected parts of the setting. An important change is to replace the word ‘profit’ with the word ‘profit’. What is contained in the concept of ‘winning’ is drawn up by practice and legal theory. The penal code has no definition of the term. Initially, the net gain was to be deducted. The offender could therefore deduct the costs he had incurred in connection with the criminal offence. In practice, many exceptions were made to this, so the general rule of practice was that it was the gross gain that was to be withdrawn. The Christian People's Party, like the rest of the committee, fully agrees with the ministry that this should also be the main rule in the future. We do not think it reasonable for a criminal to be able to deduct expenses he/she has incurred in connection with the criminal act. It is contrary to the general sense of law. The Christian People's Party believes it's an effective way to hit criminals when one captures the proceeds of criminal acts. In order to have an adequate effect on the rules, it is important that other articles may also be withdrawn if they result from the criminal offence. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the term 'profit' shall also cover: economic assets replacing the dividend assets that the dividend has been converted into, or converted into, and returns and other benefits of dividends; Such rules make it more difficult for the offender to escape the rules on the withdrawal of dividends. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party agrees with the Ministry's proposal to be able to deduct the expenditure incurred by way of exception. In such cases, it must be considered as ‘clearly unreasonable’ to follow the general rule, for example: in the interests of re-socialisation of the offender or in order to avoid double withdrawal - § 34, first paragraph. The Christian People's Party believes it is right that the dividends should be deducted from it. So it doesn't necessarily have to be the offender himself. The offender may avoid having a withdrawal claim addressed if he can be sure that another person has benefited from the crime. However, the general rule is that the court should assume that the dividend has been passed on to the offender unless he proves that it has occurred to another person. We are also pleased that the Department has proposed radical rules on extended withdrawal. The general rule shall continue to be that the criminal offence on which withdrawal is based must be clarified. It shall be possible, under detailed conditions, to derogate from the requirement of concreteisation. It implies that all assets held by the offender may be confiscated even if it has not been proved that the property has been acquired by a criminal offence. Extended withdrawal shall be possible only if the crime is of such a degree that it provides a high level of profit on a regular basis — the law uses the term ‘significant dividends’ — and it is of a certain severity. The seriousness of the action must be such that it may result in a prison sentence for six years or more, or the offence may result in a prison sentence for two years or more and, in the last five years before the offence was committed, it is punishable, punishable by criminal proceedings or in order to avoid a criminal offence of such a nature as to bring significant benefits. We know from experience that in some cases it may be difficult for the police to prove concretely that wealth comes from a particular crime. We also know that e.g. Drug offences generate considerable profits. Therefore, according to the view of the Christian People's Party, this rule is an important and correct rule. We already have a rule that simplifies the demand for concreteity in the penal law – namely the rule on the wholery and money laundering in the penal law § 317. The Christian People's Party would stress that, in any case, the prosecution authority must prove that the offender has committed a serious criminal offence that can bring significant benefits. The offender will also avoid withdrawal if he can prove that the property has been legally acquired. There is therefore the possibility for the offender to avoid withdrawal if no criminal offence has occurred. The Christian People's Party has noted the Ministry's assessment that the rule does not conflict with either human rights or the Constitution. We regard this rule as an important step forward in the fight against crime! The Christian People's Party also supports the Ministry's proposal for rules on the confiscation of profits towards the offender's closest and believes that the limits set for when withdrawal can occur are reasonable and reasonable. We are pleased that it should be possible for the court to be able to impose a withdrawal even if the prosecution authority has not made any claim to that effect, and could also impose a withdrawal in addition to the prosecution authority's claim. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to the rules adopted today by Odelstinget making life miserable for many offenders, and that the rules will help to ensure that crimes do not pay off.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e460	Fighting organised crime is a high priority for the Justice Committee. This is not fair when, for example: drug trafficking and trafficking issues are being convicted but are still lagging behind with great economic wealth as a result of illegal activity. There shall be a reality behind the slogan that crimes shall not pay off. Now we are doing this in practice – at least in relation to serious crimes. In the fight against organized crime, this is a first step on the road. The next step is called the Methodology Committee, and it is important that this matter is also presented very soon, so that the big thing can adopt a law adapted to the reality we live in. I would like to take the opportunity to address a type of crime with a financial gain that is currently more or less punishable because the authorities do not give priority to any investigation or withdrawal related to this activity. I would like to ask the State Council Dørum to answer whether he is willing to look specifically at these issues, and as the executive authority is trying to take the necessary initiative to improve the situation – I am talking about mail order or directory crime. Consumer authorities are constantly detecting fraud that is well organised and affecting very many people around Norway. The problem is that each case of fraud often does not amount to more than maybe NOK 100, but there are so many people who are being cheated, that the profit for the scammers can be about millions of dollars. Today, the police require each mail order customer to submit a report in their local police district, where the case is filed for a limited amount. The mail order fraud is precisely the hallmark of the fact that it is taking place in all the municipalities of the country and thus affects a wide range of police chambers – without the matter being seen in the context. Nor does Økokrim address these issues. They are referred to each local police chamber because the amounts are rarely large enough for Ecocrim to show interest. The result is a demoralization — in the case of consumer authorities, which sees that the penalty they can impose in the form of fines is not close to being proportionate to the profit, and in the case of ordinary people who give up reporting, while fraudsters over the years may act in a ‘screen industry’ with millions of income. So in this area, one might say that crime is absolutely rewarding because we have organized the law enforcement system so that all parties either waive responsibility or lack authority. So when, in the context of the present proposition, we have something to do with the withdrawal of serious and heavy crime, I hope, at the same time, that Council of State Dørum can give me hope that in the future we can also do something about this crime, which is a little less serious, but which has an extent – and affects so many people – that we can no longer let it pass. We can thus ensure that this type of crime does not continue as a ‘screen industry’ under the motto of ‘crime pays off’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e481	The current legislation of Odelstinget provides for a substantial tightening of the rules on withdrawal. And given the purpose of the proposals, namely to give better opportunity to combat organised crime, this proposal is also supported by the Left. But I would like to point out that the changes that are being made – first of all, to withdraw, and to introduce a reverse burden of proof – also make changes where there may be grounds to stress that the courts have to show reason in the practice of these rules. And what, in particular, has to weigh heavily in the assessment of the withdrawal question, and which I'm going to come back to in another context, is the re-socialization point of view. It must be relevant to the assessment of the ‘clearly unreasonable’ criterion at the time of the judgment. It is important not to set a withdrawal requirement that the convicted person does not really have the money to be able to meet, and where having such a requirement pending in the future could be in the way of resocialisation. It is perhaps better to attribute a withdrawal amount that he will be able to handle and thus actually pay, than to judge an amount so high that it will be impossible for the person who is charged with this, to deal with it. It would be a more effective withdrawal, and it would be more effective in relation to the purposes you have. The court or tribunals may have an overview when determining the judgment is the situation at the time of the judgment. Retirement judges will have a legal force for ten years; they will not be obsolete until after that. There may be a significant change in the debtor’s economy after the time of judgment, which also, if it goes in the wrong direction, could cause a withdrawal requirement to create problems in relation to re-socialisation. As I have been informed, the second paragraph of Section 1-3 of the Debt Code states that under the law, debt negotiation cannot be achieved ‘if it would be offensive to other debtors or to society at large’, has been perceived as standing in the way of the debt regime in relation to the withdrawal requirement. Now that the rules on withdrawal are tightened up, it may be a point to address precisely that issue differently and to provide for the possibility of a debt regime even in relation to withdrawal requirements. The alternative will be easy for the person concerned not to obtain income because all income agrees to pay old demands and the result will be a lack of re-socialisation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e495	The withdrawal of dividends is an important instrument in the fight against profit-based crime and a particularly important instrument against organised crime. Let me relate some general remarks to this relationship before I address some aspects of the matter. The government sees what is happening today, in connection with a matter that Stortinget will get later in ours, about extraordinary investigation methods, and in connection with the work being done on the issue of anonymous witnesses. What we are dealing with today is serious crime, which is also the backbone of organised crime. Such organized crime is a mockery and a threat to any state of law and to any civilised society. This crime is based on the fact that the criminals are based on the fact that it is impossible to get hold of them and get access to what they have done by ordinary means of evidence, and can bring them to justice. A social behaviour that has such consequences is unacceptable. That is why I am pleased that the Committee is so strongly in favour of the proposal promoted by the Government on extended, exceptional withdrawal, which I am now going to address and comment on. It is true that if the offender can expect him to retain the proceeds of the crime even if he is discovered, punishment will not have a good enough deterrent effect. It is also very unfortunate that profits from criminal offences should be able to finance new criminal offences. In any case, it is unreasonable whether crime should pay off. To use the word of the representative Krohn Devold, we are talking not only about a ‘screen industry’ but about an exceptionally well-protected industry. And that's all possible reason to include a settlement, as both the Government's proposal and the committee's suspension do. Practice has shown that there is a need to amend the rules on the withdrawal of dividends. Dividends should be included in more cases and to a greater extent than at present. That is why the draft law that the Stortinget is dealing with today is important. The legislative proposal can be thematically divided into three. Firstly, changes to the conditions of withdrawal have been proposed. Today it is up to the court to decide whether to revoke. Supreme Court practices have been strict. If a withdrawal requirement is included in a criminal case, it must be far before the Supreme Court clears the claim if the conditions are met. However, investigations carried out by the Retirement Committee indicate that the other courts have not been as strict. In addition, the prosecution authority does not make a claim of withdrawal in all cases where this might seem natural. In that case, the Court of Justice shall not have jurisdiction. In the proposal, the Ministry has proposed that the withdrawal rules be drawn up in accordance with the practices of the Supreme Court: withdrawal shall, as a general rule, take place if the conditions are met. However, a safety valve has been proposed for cases where withdrawal would be clearly unreasonable. Against a small group of criminals who have crime as their way of life, even as well-protected, protected their way of life – those of us who read professional journals, can sometimes read about people who live in their homes, after they have lived on disability pension, leave significant values – you can now, without going into the cases here because it is not right, say that the rules mentioned will not be effective enough. The Ministry has therefore proposed a completely new scheme, called extended withdrawal. The system aims at those who feed on crime, and sometimes in some contexts it acts almost as if they have university education in crime, so outspoken, so advanced in many ways. In these cases, in relation to the applicable law, the prosecution authority is required to prove the origin of the criminal offence. Although there is every reason to believe that all or a large part of the criminal's wealth stems from criminal acts, it cannot be withheld if it is not proven which concrete crimes are involved. It can be difficult. The Ministry has therefore proposed exemptions from the requirement of concreteisation in criminal cases where the offender is convicted of serious crime which can bring significant benefits. In such cases, all economic resources belonging to the offender shall be capable of being withdrawn if he is not satisfied that the assets have been legally acquired. In order to avoid any difficulty in confiscation because the offender transfers the property to its nearest person, the value of the property belonging to the spouse or partner of the offender shall also be deductible if the offender is not satisfied that the property has been legally acquired. It is therefore proposed that the burden of proof as to whether the property was legally acquired should be reversed in the cases in question. Otherwise, criminal law is a fundamental principle that the burden of proof is on the prosecution authority. This is an important principle that should and should remain a fundamental element of criminal law. That is why it is important for me to stress that this is not a punishment, but a criminal response that is not a punishment. In addition, it will be much easier for a criminal to prove that the property has been legally acquired than to ensure that he has not committed a particular act. I also want to add, as I've done in the past in this post, that we're turning the burden of proof into an extraordinary tool to reach groups of people who can either represent the backbone of organized crime or even be involved in such crime. In my view, the risk of the legally acquired assets being withdrawn is not such that the arrangement is irresponsible. I pay particular attention to the conditions that must be fulfilled before an extended withdrawal can be carried out: in any case, the prosecution authority must prove that the offender has committed a serious criminal offence which can bring significant benefits. Only when this is done will the burden of proof be reversed. And most of them won't have any serious problems in probating legal acquisitions. Of particular importance is that income, inheritances and gifts and lottery profits of a certain size are to be reported to the tax authorities. The person who has not done so is himself responsible for the problems that later arise in a withdrawal case. The proposal for new rules on extended withdrawal does not conflict with either the Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights or the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights. The Ministry has also proposed to facilitate the involvement of the offender’s closest assets transferred to them by the offender. But to this group, it's not fair that the burden of proof is reversed. In order to make the withdrawal rules effective, the Ministry has also proposed some procedural changes. Here I would like to highlight in particular the proposal that the court should be able to impose withdrawal even if there is no claim to that effect, and to impose withdrawal to a greater extent than that claimed. The court should be able to see all criminal law responses in the context and not be prevented from using any of them even if the prosecution authority is of a different opinion. This applies not least if the scheme is intended to involve withdrawal as a general rule, as proposed by the Ministry. Effective withdrawal rules are not sufficient alone. After examining withdrawal practices, the withdrawal committee concluded that offences were relatively rarely investigated for the purpose of withdrawal, in relation to the number of cases of profit-based crime. The committee considered that the cause, among other things: were tradition, lack of capacity and lack of knowledge of withdrawal. The proposal for new rules on withdrawal, to which I am pleased that the Committee has joined, must therefore be accompanied by a series of practical measures taken after the Committee on Retirement gave its opinion. Measures have been put in place to improve the competence of investigators and police lawyers and to motivate and raise awareness among the police in the work on withdrawal cases, to establish positions as police auditors, and to establish a user support system at Ecocrim. I see the proposed withdrawal rules and the practical measures as an important step in the fight against economic crime, and in particular the organised profit-based crime. The proposals will be followed up with a proposal on more effective investigation methods, which the Government will promote in a short time and which I have mentioned earlier in this article. The proposition also sets out a follow-up check that has been carried out on the criminal record of environmental crime, § 152b, and on doping, § 162b. The main conclusion is that no further amendments to these provisions are necessary. But the issue of criminalising the use of doping drugs is kept open. In line with the Committee’s view, the Ministry will await the action plan for the anti-doping work in Norway, which the Contact Committee for Anti-doping work has been mandated to draw up before finalising its position. The Ministry will then present this question to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner. Finally, I would like briefly to try to comment on the main issue that the representative Krohn Devold chose to put the search light on in his post. I guess I have to be careful not to go into the priority of the police, but I want to say the following: I will carefully consider how I can deal with the challenges that have been given, because I see what the representative describes in his post. I will also carefully consider how I can approach it in a manner that is sound in relation to the job to be done by the police, and in relation to the responsibility I have as Minister of Justice. But let me briefly comment that I have a sense of the general logic of the representative that small-scale crime should not pay off and not be protected at all. It is also in this context that the police in their work in recent years have prioritised the fight against winning crimes, and one can in some of our cities, among others. in Oslo, fortunately now see the result of this. This is due, inter alia, to: the concentration of efforts against the relapses – whether they are now five or ten ‘top’, or how to describe it – and thus have an impact. And I also understand the way in which it's not something that upsets people any more – besides gross violence – than the experience that their home is broken into pieces, and that someone has turned everything around while you were away. I understand that it is this analogy, this set of thoughts, the representative applies when she asks me this question about consumers who experience the scam she describes. I promise to take it with me, and find out how I can approach the question in the most appropriate way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e547	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 441]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e561	We have now had a number of issues in relation to what is going on in legal security and policy holders, and several pieces are now beginning to fall into place. The discussions we have had in previous cases show the problem around this that trams did not have an objective insurance liability for damages caused to third parties. In its wake, there were also some media examples, for example: from Oslo, who showed the unfairness of the fact that accidents caused by trams would not lead to liability, but if an accident occurred with a car in the same crossroads, the car would have a responsibility. It's a clear unfairness. We also got Document No. 8:90 for 1997-98 for treatment, which meant that one would have a statutory insurance liability within the scope of the Car Liability Act. The Ministry of Justice would see this in a larger context. There were some demarcation problems in relation to different types of rail vehicle – suburban, tram and metro – and also whether responsibility should be added to the Railway Liability Act rather than to the Car Liability Act. The Committee agreed with the assessments of the Ministry of Justice on the condition that the intentions of the proposers were based. I'll make this card. The Committee was also very pleased with the follow-up to the fact that objective liability has now been assumed for personal injuries caused by driving other than those of travellers, including in the case of rail vehicles. There's a lot of details here that I'm not going to go into. I just want to underline once again the satisfaction that we have now put an important hole in the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e574	I fully agree with what the rapporteur has said in the matter. Anyway, I want to point out a couple of things. I agree with what the department writes to the Stortinget in the case, that it is difficult to distinguish between different types of railway operations, the issue of the Stortinget in its time took a decision on liability caused by the tram, which was the case at the time. We have several different types of railway operations under the law, what we call trains, trains and trams in more popular languages. In many places, this goes into each other. Some places we can eventually get the so-called urban railways, so it's hard to distinguish between different types of railways. I also agree with the Committee that it is important to distinguish between the areas open to general circulation for the population and those areas where it is illegal for people to live. I agree, as I said, with the committee in this, and that the railway should not be liable if people enter an area in which it is prohibited to be present. I also agree with the 15-year limit that has been set. So on to the term 'railway', which has been used so far. It's probably harder than that. Does that mean that the driver of the railway, that is, the railway companies, or are those who own the railway? I record in the consultation process that the Ministry of Transport and the Railway Agency believed that it was the operator, i.e. the railway operator, who was supposed to be responsible, while the NSA BA thought that it was the infrastructure owner, i.e. the owner of the railway, who should be responsible. The Ministry of Justice and the Committee concludes that it is the person who is responsible, i.e. the railway operator. I agree, but -- and that's where one of my points is coming -- it shouldn't be that NSB BA, Oslo Sporvejer, or eventually other railway operators, if we get it on the track, will now be able to experience that people are demanding compensation, and that the amount goes out of the railway operators' boxes. It must be the insurance company of the railway undertakings – in line with a car owner and the car owner’s insurance company – which may cover such payments. I therefore stress what has been said in the statement about the insurance obligation for the railway companies. I assume that today's laws and regulations regulate this, and that the Railway Authority or Ministry of Transport can verify this under existing regulations, which state that railway operators must be adequately insured or have a guarantee of liability. The Ministry of Justice writes that one interprets it to you that today’s rules are sufficient. I hope that's right. But if it turns out that it is not enough, I would like to stress that the Justice Committee also says that the Ministry of Justice may have to come back to the Grand Duchy with a proposal to that effect. As I said, it must be the insurance companies of the railway companies that will, if necessary, cover these costs and not the railway companies. I assume that this is in safe hands when we know which department the current Minister of Justice comes from.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e589	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 443]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e597	The Odelstinge shall vote in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e680	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e687	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e702	Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 of B shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e1156	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e1163	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e1354	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-13-lower.ana.ud2023e1361	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
