ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e37	The representative Sverre J. Hoddevik will present a private legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e40	On behalf of Lars Arne Ryssdal, Bent Höie and myself, I would like to make proposals for a change in the municipality that opens the door to allow municipalities to choose that the spokesperson should have parliamentary responsibility towards the local government and be the head of administration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e45	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e50	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of Odelstingen's meeting tonight – and see it as a deal. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e55	I suggest Jørgen Holte.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e60	Jørgen Holte is proposed as the chairman of the meeting tonight. – Other proposals are not in line, and Jørgen Holte is in agreement with the President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e72	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 333]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e86	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a sequence change of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e97	The Municipal Committee supports the Government's proposal to replace the current law of 1939, the rent law, and the 1967 law on rent regulations. Although the Norwegian rental market is limited and covers about 24 pst. of the total number of housekeepers, the Committee considers that there is a need for a law to provide a framework for rental and to clarify the rights and obligations of landlords and tenants. In its legislative proposal, the government has made proposals that both care for landlords’ interest in operating rentals, and ensures the lessee’s secure rental conditions that provide safety and prudent financial obligations. The majority in the committee believe that there is an imbalance in the market because the number of rentals has fallen. As a result, the rental price, especially in the press areas, is too high. Against this background, the majority believe that the state should help to build more rental properties in the press areas. The majority also believe that the bill meets the law’s purpose, that everyone should be protected from arbitrary and immoderate handling, regardless of whether one is the owner or the tenant. The majority believe it is important to stress that tenants should be sure that they cannot be cancelled for no reason, or that rents cannot be increased beyond what is considered reasonable. With the adjustments in the Committee's configuration, the majority believe that the law ensures that conflicts arise, the parties shall have first-time access to bodies capable of resolving the dispute without risking both temporal and financial taxes, which would result in a direct judgment. The bill applies both to the rental of the dwelling and to the locality. The Ministry proposes that current conditions which are less favourable to the less favourable to the lessor than those provided for by the law should not be agreed or made. The Committee's plurality supports this. The Committee also notes that the Government proposes that the general rule in the case of local leasing should be that the law may be waived by agreements. The majority of the committee also supports the need for complaints about the standard of the housing within a reasonable period of time. This is more flexible than the current system, which limits this right to only 14 days. The Committee also endorses the proposal in the new law to limit deposits and guarantees to a total of a maximum of six months’ rent. The Committee also supports proposals for the disbursement of housing against loans, as this is a scheme which has been used very little in recent years. In the fourth paragraph of Section 3-5 of the Committee, in consultation with the Ministry, it proposes that the bank should pay the deposit instead of being able to pay to the lessee at the end of the time limit for bringing proceedings if no action has been brought. The majority of the Committee will stress that the fear of being left standing for a longer period of time with financial obligations through loans, etc. and a lessee who has stopped paying rent will be one of the most important uncertainties for many lessors. Therefore, the majority of the Committee suggests that, after the lease term has ended, the financial institution may pay due rent from the account if the parties have agreed in writing that the lease should be credited to another account of the same financial institution, and the lessor has documented the time when the liability took effect and when it ended. The Committee also supports the proposal for the annual indexation of the original rentals and their adaptation to the rents every three years. The majority of the Committee concludes on the proposal to abolish the Housing Regulation within 10 years. The reason for this is that there is not a uniform group of poor economies that live in dwellings that are covered by this law, that is, dwellings built before the Second World War: approx. 12,000 dwellings in Oslo and 1 800 in Trondheim. This law is a little targeted instrument to help those who have the worst economy or the biggest problems in the housing market. The majority of the Committee agrees that annual rentals may be increased by up to 20 pst. of today's rent, excluding municipal taxes, every year for nine years to come. In the 10th year, the Committee accepts full market alignment. This gives those living in these dwellings a good transition to adapt to a new building cost situation. If some families get into trouble because of the loss of this law, the committee refers to the support as a targeted tool to deal with those who have financial problems. The Committee's plural opinion is positive with new rules aimed at giving tenants an impact on the management and operation of the property. On the one hand, it is clear that renting out own property and making all decisions about ownership. On the other hand, it is positive that the tenant has a greater influence over his own construction situation, among other things. it shall be possible to choose a trust option representing the lessor to the lessor. This will apply in houses where the owner has rented out more than four housing units. That representative shall have advisory authority. The Committee's plurality agrees that the new Housing Act proposes a protection against being cancelled by the lessor. The majority agree that an excessive level of deposit protection may lead to a reduction in the total number of rentals. At the same time, the majority feel that it is important to give the lessee protection so that he gets needed or desired safety. For this reason, the majority support the Ministry's proposal that temporary leases can only be terminated if there are particular grounds for cancellation. The majority also take a positive view of the fact that the new housing law mentions the reasons for the right of cancellation. The majority believe that most possible contracts should be timeless. But the majority also believe that it must be right to have the possibility to conclude fixed-term leases, and support the proposal that a minimum period of three years be set. To agree with an explicit need for a simple dispute resolution of my committee majority that it will be right to support initiatives taken by the Norwegian Housing Association, the Norwegian Housing Association, the Norwegian Housing Association, the Landsförbund and the Consumer Council to create a housing housing selection. Rents are often small, time-consuming and cost-consuming cases to run before the courts. In addition, there is often a long waiting time for a trial to be brought before the courts. For example, the majority suggest the creation of a housing selection in Oslo as a trial scheme for three years. This selection should have representatives of the tenant and rental side and be chaired by a neutral president with adominant opinion. The selection should have its own secretariat, which, in addition to preparing the case for the selection, brokers between the parties. One should consider linking the Secretariat to the Conciliation Council. A decision in this property lease selection will have the same effect as a judgment if it is not submitted to the general courts. The majority assume that the costs of the scheme should initially be borne by the parties in charge. Otherwise, the Committee agrees with the proposal for simplification so that the second sentence of the fifth paragraph of Section 5-8 is replaced by the following: ‘The provisions of the first, fourth, fifth and sixth paragraphs of Section 2-14 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the measurement of compensation. ‘... In addition, on behalf of the Committee, I would like to make a clarification that I have put on the presidency and that will be shared in the Chamber during the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e144	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e147	The Progress Party has some objections to the law that we are now dealing with here in Odelstinget. In the case of the protection against denunciation, there has been a significant strengthening. Now, without justifying their view, tenants can oppose the cancellation within one month. So the new thing is that the lessor has to go to the legal entity within a period of three months and require confirmation of the termination. It must be possible to assume that this will lead to far more dismissal cases in the judiciary than has been the case in the past, and it will be expensive for the losing party in any case, at the same time as it will put both parties in a very difficult and often unpleasant situation. Is it so that the representative Gedrem believes that the prospect of getting into such unpleasant and perhaps costly problems for homeowners will make him particularly eager to rent out, for example. in his own cellar? Wouldn't this weaken the interest in operating rentals, at least in your own private dwelling?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e156	As I said in my first post, this is a balanced piece of legislation that takes care of both landlords and tenants. In my opinion, the Ministry has had a lucky hand with a balanced list of requirements and rights for rents and rentals. Although I have to admit that in this statutory audit there are many plus scars on the rental side, it is right to strengthen the rental situation. But the law requires a factual justification in the event of cancellation, and there should be an affordable and acceptable reason for a landlord. I have a little problem understanding that it is supposed to be dampening the desire to rent a dwelling that one has to have a real reason to cancel a tenant. But in these circumstances, as in most others where there are several parties, one of the most important things is when it comes to agreements, that there are good, open and trusting relationships, and it will encourage us to develop in all these conditions, so that we can avoid conflicts as much as possible. In addition to this, we have named a simple selection of disputes here in Oslo as an appeal mechanism to see the effect, and, if necessary, to extend it to larger parts of the country, which can resolve simple disputes, so that a person should not be charged to the courts, and that it should not be so expensive for those who have a dispute in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e163	The setting refers to a correspondence with the ministry, where the problem is linked to any decision on urban renewal held against a fixed-term lease. To put it simply, the answer to this problem is from the department that origning, or e.g. propriation, is the key that in this case can bring about urban renewal. Now, in our eyes, these are relatively strong and time-consuming measures, and the minority have a proposal that the tenant cannot oppose rehabilitation, which may end up in retirement. I would like to right the case spokesperson's view of this expropriation requirement held up against the competing one that does not have multiples.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e170	We have not accepted this minority proposal from the Right. We feel that the proposals and points of view that came from the department are covering and will be a good way to carry out a necessary urban renewal in many areas. We see it as a useful tool, and believe that it can be a practical way to organise it. It's clear that expropriation is initially a heavy tool as one in the longest way to use, but sometimes one comes up in situations where one has to have a little heavy tool, especially when this applies to many parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e177	The majority are in favour of lifting the house lease regulation provisions, both the strict and the mild. The mild one has been discussing very little. I could imagine hearing Mr. Gedredem's reason why you couldn't imagine keeping it, precisely with the background of the recordings we've received from Husleienemenda in Oslo, which shows that this provision has been useful to very many people who have poor advice, and that it has in no way prevented rehabilitation and, consequently, the increase in rent, for those who have dealt with the legislation and applied for it, have also received it. The reason for lifting the rental regulations is that Gedrem is that they are not very targeted, and it is not difficult to find examples that it may not be the most needed. But I could also imagine asking Gedrem if he does not see that the injustice is being replaced by the fact that there are actually more people who get problems on the housing market if we do this now. So finally, a very specific question. We know that many people live in these regulated apartments who have spent quite a lot of their own money cleaning them up, so that the appreciation of the dwelling has become quite large. How should the capital increase now be allocated between the owner and the tenant in such a relationship? And can it actually end up so that tenants have to pay extra rent as a result of the appreciation they have paid?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e186	After this evening, we probably have one of the most liberal laws in the Western world in this field, so it's clear that there are some question marks in the path ahead. But we've assessed it this way, as I said in my first post, that the regulations we've had have been small-scale, and that some kind of market-free supplement with an active investment in housing, especially for vulnerable and disadvantaged groups, will be able to solve a situation that will be problematic for larger groups. Whatever action we take will cause problems, but I don't think they'll be bigger than being able to deal with them. With a targeted grip on housing construction and a sensible alignment of public tools to groups that need it, I actually have great faith that even if it leads to a suspension of house rental regulation, it won't get that strong results, especially because we've given the strict regulation a ten-year run. Then there's the problem with those who have cleaned up their own homes. I myself was with another representative and visited a dwelling that was furnished for NOK 100000 20-25 years ago. Then the monthly rent for a relatively large dwelling was about NOK 2,000. That's very cheap. On questions I received from tenants, I said that despite the fact that he invested NOK 100 000 in 1972 – that is a lot of money – he still had a cheap dwelling when looking at the entire life cycle. At least there were some tenants. So I think most people who have invested in a rented housing in the form of refurbishment have got this again. I think there are few who feel tricked.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e193	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e197	Let me first give recognition to the case rapporteur for the way he has managed to work on this setting. The rapporteur has also explained the main content of the law and the setting in his article in a good way, and I therefore find no reason to repeat what he has said, just to clarify that it is mainly the Workers' Party and the government parties that agree on this setting. In other words, it's at the intersection of the Workers' Party and the Centre's premises for the House Rental Act. In the Workers' Party, we are therefore pleased to have managed to shake the government parties out of the claws of the Advance Party and the Right in such an important matter that affects housing and living conditions for very many families. I would therefore just like to touch on a few main issues in the law. The most difficult political issue is clearly the question of repealing the Housing Lease Regulations Act. This applies first of all to the mild regulation, i.e. Chapter 3 of the House Rental Regulations Act and includes the rental of private dwellings in Bergen, Bodø, Drammen and Tromsø Municipality and all private dwellings in Oslo and Trondheim that are not subject to strict regulation. I would also like to stress that it is a unanimous House Rental Act committee that recommends the lifting of the mild regulation. Secondly, the rental of dwellings in houses listed before 8 April 1940 in Oslo and Trondheim, with certain exceptions, i.e. the strict regulation of Chapter 2 of the Housing Lease Regulations Act. On the part of the Workers' Party, we agree to repeal the Housing Lease Regulations Act. The political issue has been the extent to which the repeal of the law would lead to an unreasonable increase in the rental price of these dwellings. For the Workers' Party, it has been important, on the one hand, to protect those living in the dwellings covered by the repeal of the House Rental Regulations, for a sudden increase in the rent, which too many will be insurmountable, and, on the other hand, to contribute to the greater possibility for the lessor to maintain the properties, all of which are listed before World War II. The Workers' Party agrees with the Government that a transitional period of 10 years should be established. We are also pleased that there is a majority in the committee, and therefore in the Stortinget, so that the rent can be increased by a maximum of 20 pst. per 1 % years in the first nine years. But I also want to make it clear that when the majority of the vote refers to the rent, we mean and assume that it's the rent, that is. rent minus municipal charges. On the part of the Workers' Party, it is also assessed that the rental regulation is to some extent in breach of the principle of non-discrimination, because the corresponding non-regulated public-owned dwellings are increasingly rented at market prices. It may therefore seem unfair that a small group of private owners are affected by the regulation. The second main issue I want to address is the deposit system. The Workers' Party agrees with the Government that the deposit should bear interest and that this is money which is initially owned by the lessee and which should therefore be placed financially sound. However, I would like to stress that for many lessors financial liabilities through loans, combined with non-payment of rentals, constitute a significant uncertainty factor. In order to mitigate this uncertainty, the Workers' Party believes that, in the event of unpaid rent, the owner can be paid out of the deposit without written consent. A third issue is housing housing representation. The Housing Law Committee has proposed rules to ensure that residents have a certain influence on the management and operation of property. Swedish and Danish house rental laws provide for participation rights for tenants in common rental properties. A majority of the House Lease Committee has proposed that the lessor deliver both accounts for properties and an operating budget showing revenue and expenditure in the current year on the basis of the requirements of the trusted obligations. The government proposes that tenants in houses where the lessor has rented five or more dwellings should be able to choose a trustee. However, the Government proposes that the trustee should have an advisory function first and that neither the trustee nor the residents should have access to the lessor's accounts or budget. The Workers' Party supports the Government's proposal for housing rent representation, but believes that the Government must come back to Stortinget with a case that ensures that residents' representatives are legally entitled to influence. This is also in line with what the Leieboerforeningen and Landsorganisationen mean. On that basis, I would like to raise proposal No. 1 in the settings. The last issue I want to mention is the introduction of a dispute resolution body. The working party is pleased that, through the work of the Committee on this position, a majority has been set up in order to set up a probationary system with the host Membership Committee in Oslo. However, I would like to stress that it is the Workers' Party's assumption that the cases dealt with in the Housing Lease Committee should be exempted from the legal proceedings in the Conciliation Council, in order to avoid duplication of treatment. I would recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e218	The representative Odd Eriksen has drawn up the proposal he himself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e223	It is such that, among other things: The Workers' Party notes that as far as possible leases should be temporary because one considers that the purpose of fixed-term leases is to avoid the protection of denunciation. At the same time, the Workers' Party will have leadership at the rental level by allowing one after two years and six months to require market rental adjusted to so-called rentals. In my view, this will mean that fixed-term contracts will be the rule rather than the exception. So first one wants the tenants to get leases for an indefinite period, and then to put in place a plan where, after two and a half years, tenants can demand rentals that are reduced to rents, which one must expect to be lower than market rents. Is it strange, then, that the lessor will ensure that the rental income may fall, by always entering into contracts for at least three years or a year? Then the rules say that you can start market rental again, which you have to expect is something about rent. That is to say, the wish of the Workers' Party that as many contracts as possible should be indeterminate has no content whatsoever. How can the Workers' Party believe, in such a situation, that most should or will enter into leases indefinitely? I find this strange, and I would like to hear the representative Eriksen's answer to that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e230	I think we should at least clarify the starting point for the different positions on the kind of agreements we are discussing here. For the Workers' Party, it is important to reach a balanced agreement, an agreement that takes account of different interests, which was also explained by the rapporteur. If you take one side of the equation and don't want to undermine both parties' interests, you'll always find an imbalance. That's what's the starting point for our comments and our attitude to the rental law. It is not that the rent will in any case just go up. We can actually imagine cases where the rent will have to go down. It is also a matter that needs to be taken into account in the assessment of whether time indefinite contracts should be held. So my answer to Andersen's representative is that what we've been thinking about is that we should have a balanced agreement that takes into account the interests of the parties, and we're assuming that it's the parties that are initially planning the agreements in terms of rental.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e239	When SV has assessed the removal of the rental regulations, we have assessed: Who is affected by the regulations now? And who is affected by a deregulation? The rapporteur was just up here and said that we are now getting one of the most liberal housing laws in Europe – and we will do that. What we know then is that the rents will rise, even though you've now made a way to do it that will dampen the worst. But that's after all 12,000 homes this is all about in Oslo. Is not the Workers' Party concerned that we have not yet started this non-profit rental housing scheme, that there is going to be a major imbalance here? And has the Workers' Party some overview of how much in increased expenses it becomes, for example. social assistance and housing support for deregulate now? Then I have another question for the Workers' Party. We're occupied with housing security, everyone should be able to have it. Even if a tenant or owner is required to have security of dwelling. In the provisions on fixed-term contracts, as they are now, we fear from SV that at the end of the deadline a tenant will be cancelled despite the fact that the landlord will continue to be hired out. We have then proposed that if the property should continue to be rented on the open market, you should have the right to rent again. I wonder why the Workers' Party could not be with SV on this proposal. It would ensure a home security for people, so you don't have to move around. If the dwelling is still to be rented on the open market and is not rented or used by a close family or similar, the person who has the rental contract should be entitled to continue to extend the rental in this housing in order to avoid being exposed to a nomadic life. I have not understood why the Workers' Party would not be involved in this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e246	In Oslo, I guess it's about. 20 pst. by the residents of the dwellings to which the deregulation applies, which are so-called older tenants. This is the approximate number. It is clear that different considerations need to be weighed against each other, as I also said in the article, and we have done that when we have gone into deregulation. On the one hand, as I said, we are going to secure those who rent out the dwellings, an income that will enable them to maintain the dwellings in a satisfactory way. We're going to remember that these are homes listed before World War II. At the same time, some work remains to be done to ensure that those living in dwellings are not unduly affected by an increase in rent. We've done this by setting the transitional regime to 10 years, and maximizing the base rent increase to 20 pst. But I repeat that there is still some work to be done, especially for the elderly residents, to ensure that the increase in rent does not increase the uncertainty of living. We have arrangements in this society that resolve that kind of issue, and I'm going to assume that the Council of State is also concerned about. With regard to the possibility of staying in the dwelling after the cut-off, which Karin Andersen, the representative, was concerned with, my assumption and my starting point are that the owners of the house are very much concerned with stable tenants, and that this is therefore essentially not a major problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e257	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e260	The proposal for a new house rental law under discussion in Odelstinget today has been the subject of extensive and demanding work in the Committee. The Committee shall, for the purposes of the matter, inter alia: have visited both Finland and Sweden to obtain relevant information and knowledge in the work on the proposal for a new house rental law. The result has been a relatively extensive law to replace both the former house rental law of 16 June 1939 and the house rent regulation law of 7 July 1967. The main basis for the Committee's work has been based on the Committee's decision-making procedure, NOU 1993:4 Law on rental contracts, which has been on a thorough consultation round since 1993. At the same time, the comments made by the Ministry and the Hearing Officers on the suspension of the Husleielov committee have been assessed and examined in the Committee. The purpose of the law is to regulate rental conditions between the tenant and the lessor. In most areas, the Progress Party broadly agrees with the majority on the content of the law. However, in some areas covered by the law, the Progress Party has not been able to agree with the majority. Thus, to the present proposal, the Progress Party has some comments and amendments that we believe are necessary in order for the law to contribute to the creation of a well-functioning rental market and thereby fulfil important objectives of Norwegian housing policy. For these reasons, the party to the progress has shown, in its general observations, that the law provides for extensive and detailed regulation within the rental market for dwellings, with the result that private and non-professional landlords may feel that their right of access and control over their own property is being weakened or reduced. In this case, more lessors may become skeptical about renting, which can contribute to a reduction in the total number of rental dwellings, and this will in turn contribute to increased pressure in the rental market, with increasing prices as final results. The Progress Party has the following objections – seven pieces in total: 1st@item: inlistbox We will continue to have fixed-term leases without limitation for a minimum period of one or three years in terms of the duration of the lease. In other words, we want to keep the law as it is today in this area.2. The party seeking freedom of contract for the purpose of determining the size of the rental is, for that reason, Chapter 4 on the protection of rental prices. 3rd@item: inlistbox The party to the proceedings opposes the reversal of the burden of appeal in the event of a disputed termination from the lessor to the lessor and will maintain the law as it stands in this area, so that there must still be tenants who have to go to court and demand termination.4. We are opposed to Chapter 6 on resident representation.5. We will abolish the house rent regulation law over five years.6. We will maintain the current 14-day rule for tenants' right to complain about the defects and defects of the dwelling that this person is moving to7. We want a somewhat stricter limit on how many people can move into a rental dwelling without requiring the agreement of the lessor. I'll get to comment on some of these points in more detail. In the case of fixed-term rental contracts, I believe that several lessors will reserve the right to rent in their own homes if you know that they have first received rentals, you are usually bound to let rentals stay for three or one years in your own house. The Progress Party considers, as stated, that temporary leases should not include any provision for the minimum duration of the lease. The Progress Party will then also oppose the provision that fixed-term rental contracts must be concluded for at least three years in landlords and one year in private dwellings. However, even if fixed-term leases under the new law have been provided for a minimum period of one or three years, such temporary leases will probably become the rule rather than the exemption, because it will be reasonably possible to adapt to the exceptions referred to by the law in order to obtain fixed-term leases of a shorter duration than the general rule requires. There are exceptions that allow you to have a temporary lease shorter than, as I said, the general rule of law says. The Committee has stated that all leases should preferably be non-scheduled. Here the committee will hardly get its wishes met. Because when we know that after two and a half years, the parties can demand the original market rental adjusted down to the so-called rent, all the lessors will arrange their contracts all the time to obtain market rental, which is likely to be higher than the rent of the assembly. There must then be no longer than three years lease terms, as market rentals and refurbishments are likely not to be identical. What would be the point of this provision? Therefore, upon the conclusion of new contracts, the lessee will be able to adjust the rentals to market rentals, which must be assumed to be higher than the rentals. In order not to lose rental income, then, a lessor is forced to use fixed-term contracts to adjust the rentals to market levels every three years. There may be a lot of work to do in terms of fares and legal devices that we could have been spared if we had followed the proposals of the Progress Party to let the parties themselves agree on the rental. For the Progress Party, full freedom is sought between the parties to agree on what to pay in rent. I find it strange for several reasons that the majority operates with a rental relationship starting at market rent, but that after two and a half years it should be possible to adjust it down to so-called rent. Therefore, the forwarding party opposes Chapter 6 on the protection of rental prices and justifies this view that the rental price is, in practice, also currently pure market prices in normal rental conditions. So we don't see any reason to deal with what people are going to pay in rent. Another news in the law that could contribute to less willingness to rent out is that those who, for some reason, consider it appropriate to cancel the tenant will experience this as very problematic if the lessee opposes such termination. For the lessee, within one month of receipt of a written notice and even possibly a reasoned notice, the lessee may inform the lessee that the notice is not accepted — even without justification. He can thus become a resident as before. Under this law, the lessor will now have to go to court to confirm any cancellation. So the new thing is that the tenant can very easily oppose the cancellation and become a resident as long as he wishes, until the court has confirmed that the cancellation may be valid. When we then know that the law provides for a very strict cancellation protection for the tenant, that a cancellation must always be justified in substance, and that ultimately it is up to the judicial system to decide what is the cause, the lessor is faced with a very stressful and frustrating situation. A lessor who has had to go through such a case, rarely hires another one. He would rather leave the dwelling empty to avoid discomfort. This means that there will be a skepticism in some people to rent out vacant land in their own home. This, in turn, leads to poor use of the total Norwegian housing stock. For these reasons, the Progress Party has found it appropriate to vote against the third sentence of the first paragraph of Section 9-8, which requires the lessor to take action within three months in order to approve a cancellation. Nor do we have any faith in the eagerness of the majority to set up a sample of resident representations in larger rental conditions, where residents will formalise their cooperation in a body together with the owner of the house. We have absolutely no faith in this. So we're going to go against the entire chapter 6, where this is included. The Progress Party has also proposed to abolish the obsolete house rent regulation law over five years, not more than ten years, as proposed by the majority. In this context, it is natural to refer to Finland, where this law was repealed over an even shorter period, without any problems being recorded for that reason. Like the Ministry, the Progress Party has not seen it as particularly important to support the creation of a housing lease committee. To create even more organs to deal with some problem as long as there are already good enough bodies, we think it is unnecessary. In addition, the creation of such a sample requires extensive work and organisation. I also refer to what the Ministry has said in this area. But overall, the law has legal rules for several important aspects that determine relationships between lessor and tenants of the highest importance. It is also true, then, that the Progress Party largely supports this law, with the exception of the areas to which I have just referred. With those words, I will conclude, and address the suggestions contained in the vote on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e320	Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e325	The contribution of the Progress Party to the work of new house rental laws can be defined as follows: most of it should be up to the market to be determined. It is in so far as it is in accordance with the ideological foundation of the party – in so far as such a foundation is present. The representative Torbjørn Andersen assumes that, as soon as he has got hold of a tenant, the landlord will throw the tenant out as soon as possible. But that this was to take care of the interests of the little union people, I'm quite sure that's not the case. This is most clearly demonstrated both by the fact that the party will vote against the Chapter on the protection of rental prices and by the proposal that transitional arrangements for the winding-up of the regulations be reduced to five years, without restrictions on the increase in rent during the transitional period. I would therefore like to ask the representative Andersen whether he is not concerned about unnecessary high consumption of taxpayers' money to help those who have financial problems by increasing their rent faster than that, for example. The majority will move in favour of the option.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e332	I find it strange that the Workers' Party has such a fundamental belief that everything is going to be as good as possible, only it will be regulated. As long as you make laws and regulations, only politicians get their say, everything gets so much better. I don't share that view. As far as we want market rental and full contractual freedom between the parties are concerned, there is nothing particularly remarkable about it. It is otherwise for all possible conditions in this society, largely, that it is the market, the parties themselves, that sets prices, depending on supply/demand. That we need a supervision of free competition, and that the rental market is something special where politicians have to go in and instruct what is lawful and not allowed, and detailed control of such a banal and simple thing as the rental price, I find quite strange that someone can claim. Price is best formed in a free market without too many interference from politicians. Politicians must ensure that it is full and effective competition. It stops the politicians' tasks. If the lessor screws up the rental price unfairly, he will not rent out the dwelling he wants to rent out. In a well-functioning market, we do not need price regulation on rentals, and in practice, today the market price is the case. There is no doubt that what is market rental today is a real market rental – there are prices in terms of rental conditions that have been fully agreed between the parties. So there's nothing strange about the Progress Party in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e340	The President will ask Torbjørn Andersen a question. When Torbjørn Andersen took up proposals presented by the Progress Party, does it also include the proposals where the Progress Party is proposing with others? The President sees it this way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e343	I want to use this opportunity to stress that as politicians, we should have respect for our position and our craftsmanship and not mention the degrading work that we are going to do on behalf of the people. I have a little problem understanding that, as representatives of a democracy, we should not be able to have independent opinions and implement some regulations to balance and try to mitigate conflicts. What politicians operate on is conflict. That's why it's a very nice craft, well developed, if you respect it and you want to pursue a policy that is respected, that people most accept. Therefore, I would like to warn against some kind of political contempt where one stands on the side and says that the politicians are not capable of doing this. So a few things about the contents of Torbjørn Andersen's articles. I had the impression that the price adjustment was to the detriment of the landlord. We had a situation for approx. 10 years ago with a price crack. It was a different situation. According to the article, the impression was that the amount of the rent was already going up - continuously upwards. But in the situation now in Oslo, I'm pretty close to seeing a situation where rent will go down, if one power to build more dwellings. So I feel that this is a little bit too one-sided. I would also like to stress this with confidence-building measures – not underestimating it. Contact between parties averts many conflicts, and I don't think we should underestimate the amount of a countermeasure that this would mean.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e352	First of all, as the representative Gedrem said, it's my view that politicians should put the big framework around what's going on in society, and not necessarily take care of everything in detail. I think it's important. In terms of price and rent, i.e. the level of rent, it is clear that the competitive element is important – i.e. offer/demand. It's quite elementary. Today in the big cities we have the situation that there are too few homes and too many people who want to rent homes, and then get a price squeeze. Thus one comes to the conclusion that of course we need to build more dwellings. As we have discussed earlier today: If we can increase the rate of student housing construction, it will help relieve the overall pressure on the housing market, for example. in Oslo and other major cities. So here's a challenge that embraces the entire Norwegian housing and housing policy. Here's a challenge to meet. To achieve a market balance. And then it's going to work with free pricing in an excellent way. For that matter of resident representation: it's completely unclear, for me at least, how this should be arranged. I believe that the trust between the individual tenant and the lessor is more important than a kind of threatening housing organisation, which is going to demand power and influence over the owner's right of disposal and the use of own property. Such a body is not prohibited. It could be created on a voluntary basis; it does not have to be enshrined in a separate law. I believe that such a body is completely superfluous, and that the conditions which must be dealt with in such a body can be resolved informally.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e363	The housing policy of the Progress Party is like the policy in most other areas, they swear that it is a free market to apply. And on the free market, the strongest right, we know – especially when the imbalance between supply and demand is high. The rental market in the case of housing is not special, says the representative of the Progress Party. Yes, it is. The housing market is special, because the housing market is about a very basic need for people. We're not talking about a car or a milk carton or a bread. That's not what we're talking about right now, we're talking about the very basic need that everyone has: the ability to live. If we are to ensure that everyone has a place to live – that it is not the strongest right that should apply – we actually have to take responsibility for it as politicians, and make some driving rules that protect the weakest party. And then we're probably going to have to contribute money, because those who don't have purchasing power in the market will never be able to be met by a private offer. In that case, that would also be unreasonable. I wonder if the representative of the Progress Party has not listened to the head of Husleienemnda in Oslo, Eivind Eckbo of the Progress Party, who just describes how this housing market works, and who says that there are people who do not have any folk or stomach problems at all, or take any consideration of those to whom they are going to rent out. So this free market will gain more power. How, in fact, does the Progress Party believe that people who have poor advice – and no greater problems than bad advice – should be able to solve their housing problems?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e376	To take the last one first: it is not that the Norwegian rental market consists of only housing sharks, as one gets the impression when one hears the representative from SV. In fact, what distinguishes the Norwegian housing market is that it is private renting out, perhaps in its own basement. That they were to be the big ugly wolf, who needs such a dramatic law step down his head, I'm very sorry to understand that. As I see it, the representative Andersen from SV is still not finished with St.meld. No 49 for 1997-1998 on the disadvantaged, but this debate continues here. In the case of the rent regulation law, it has long been mature to be abolished. Now it is true that SV actually wanted to keep the rental regulation law, for some remarkable reason. But there's SV all alone. And it's, as I was into earlier today, always so that one should do one thing cheaply, cheaper than that market can fix the price at, others have to pay for it. We had a reply round earlier today where I pointed out that if SV would possibly have room for their social housing policy, it had to be in the form of an increase, for example. housing taxes in different areas. But I don't feel that's the debate we're in right now. The question was how to obtain advice, those who might have been hit by higher housing prices. In the comments of the Progress Party, we have said that it is necessary to consider carefully whether to receive support through housing support or other social instruments to relieve them of problems when the Housing Lease Regulation Act is repealed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e389	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e392	So today's attitude is about the law that regulates rents and rental agreements between landlords and tenants. At the same time, there will be much to say about the availability of apartments on the rental market and much to say about the structure of the contracts concluded. However, let us state at the earliest opportunity that we are ending the process of abolishing the rental regulation law today. It has passed through the 1990s – from the Government of Syse in 1990, the preliminary selection that appeared to be the setting in 1993 has been reduced. Today’s treatment of the drug now ends an over-modern process, in which we will mainly discuss the content of a new housing law. Housing regulation law – the strict regulation – will be liquidated on its own against SV’s votes. Right is satisfied with the new law on the deposit of rent, which is dealt with in Sections 3 to 8. We are particularly satisfied with the assumption that § 3-8 about landfilling is not applicable to local rents. The general rule here is that the laws are different for such rental conditions, except for very special precision. Likewise, we are happy with the leading legal text on the handling of deposits. The forfeiture of the rent could amount to a much larger and economical amount than, for example, clean-up costs. The lessor's controlled right to the due rent is the most important point here through the deposit. When it comes to future lease fixing, we will continue that market rents should gradually be accepted as a fair deal. The competition that the plural now introduces, if the rent is repeated, we're asking the corresponding question. If this proves to be something other than market rent, which is dealt with under § 3-1, it will have an impact on the way the market will behave, and also on the choice of the contract form by the parties. This allows for a recovery of fixed-term contracts. Nevertheless, strong rental rights may have an impact on the available volume of rentals. What is particularly true of the Norwegian market is that most of the rental volume is made available to unprofessional individuals. Should this market partially dry up due to the refusal of the landlords, this will obviously affect the tenants for whom the majority has been consulted. Therefore, it is also that the Right is in favour of greater flexibility with regard to the time-limited lease. There is not only long-term security that is the current argument in this debate. As I said, we left a particularly strict lease market where the lessee is not as uniform as many people want it to be. Otherwise, the rental market is, of course, at least as much characterised by different categories of housing-seeking with different needs, even in the case of long-term sustainability. Individuals in short-term work situations, 35-year-old brokers without a particularly long housing horizon, hardly need the majority's involvement in long-term solutions and settlement protection in fixed-term contracts. This setting describes a situation where the combination of time-limited agreements and public urban renewal decisions invokes expropriation as the key to solving these problems. This suggests that both the Progress Party and the Right are unnecessarily complicated, and therefore promotes the following suggestions in the option: ‘The lessee may not oppose rehabilitating after regulation for renewal, remedial programme or improvement agreement with the municipality, provided that, after rehabilitation, the housing space is still suitable for the use of the lessee. Such rehabilitation provides the basis for tenants to cancel the lease. ‘... We think this is full height with the corresponding grounds for cancellation in fixed-term leases. Furthermore, there is reason to point out that the majority of this legal text lowers the level of precision from the previous legal rule with regard to the deadline to point out that there is less lack in taking over a dwelling. In our opinion, the continuation of today's 14-day deadline will be clarifying what we mean by reasonable time associated with less is missing. In addition, our opinion is that the greater lack is the owner's responsibility, regardless of the deadline. So a little bit about the opening in the recommendation for a prescription, given the amount of rent, rental stop and maximum rate of rent. In our view, this is not an insignificant step backwards in relation to the fundamental right that we now obtain for private ownership. Should the need to intervene at any time report itself, it is our view that the temporary law of decision in Stortinget should come up with a speech rather than leave the question to the Government. Finally, some words about the process attributes. Right is in the plural that opens up for experiments with the house rental selection. This will be a three-year testing scheme to be evaluated. Here is a point that the Government is authorised to suspend the provisions of the Conciliation Board in these cases. But the Right will go month by month beyond the plurality of saving time and resources by opening up to the general bypass of the Conciliation Council in such cases, if the parties are some about this. This comment is made concretely in proposal No. Four, which we're dealing with the Progress Party. I'm addressing Right's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e419	Mr. Hoddevik has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e422	It is positive that a new house rental law is now adopted, and that at the same time it is clarified how the strict house rental regulation of a number of pre-war apartments in Oslo and Trondheim should be abolished in 10 years. In the opinion of the Centre Party, a good balance has been achieved between the security of the tenants and the interests of the lessors, so that the interest in renting out is not diminished. There is a broad consensus on lifting the strict house rent regulation, and that this will take place over ten years. It is obvious that these apartments have represented a good deal for many, and that many of them can now have financial problems when rentals are going up to market prices. In order to reduce these problems, the Ministry proposes that residents be entitled to housing aid. The Committee has agreed to this. They do not have such a right to housing allowance today. In some cases, estimates show that housing aid results in actual housing costs being lower in the first few years than those currently in use. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Right and the Advance Party, have been concerned about the situation of those who currently live with the lowest rates of rent. To avoid sudden changes for these, a maximum increase of 20 pst is now adopted. rent each of the nine first years of this 10-year period. In some cases, the price jump in the tenth year may be greater than if the increase had been as the ministry provided. Based on some practical cases I have been familiar with through enquiries lately, I am pleased with the restriction that has now been included in the legal text. Another theme of the Committee’s discussions has been the creation of a host-leaders committee. Recordings about this have come from the Consumer Council, NBBL, the Leieboerforeningen and the Landsförbund. In consultation with the Ministry, the entire Committee, with the exception of the Advancement Party, asked the Ministry to initiate proceedings with such a dispute body in Oslo and, where appropriate, in several municipalities. It is imperative that the parties cover the costs of the proceedings and that cases dealt with by the disputed body be exempted from proceedings before the Conciliation Council if a case is requested before the ordinary judicial system after the proceedings in such a disputed body. I hope that this arrangement can prove to provide faster and cheaper solutions to house rent conflicts and relieve the ordinary legal system for some minor matters. I expect that we will come back to this with a view to making this a nationwide system. In an attempt to find the best possible balance between the interests of the lessor and the lessor, the Ministry's proposal on the right of disposal of the deposit has changed in the favour of the lessor. The entire committee, with the exception of SV, believes that the lessor should be able to deduct unpaid rent from the deposit without the agreement of the lessee. Expenditure on cleaning, cleaning and repair shall be eligible, as proposed by the Ministry on the basis of the signatures of both parties or a judicial decision. In sum, I believe that the new law provides greater security of living, and that what people rent with a background in the new law has a greater value than it has been before. The right is a little worried about, I guess, that the rules might be so that some homes may not be rented out and that some people are going to get it harder on the housing market. I think the situation becomes so that it is the disadvantaged who get the biggest problems, and who have to be at the back of the line anyway. I think it is good for them that there will be stricter rules for discarding or for cancellation, and that access to shorter leases will be limited in relation to what it has been.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e435	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e438	The Ministry proposes that in houses where the lessor has rented five or more dwellings, a trust elected representative should be chosen. But the ministry is not willing to give the trust-chosen real influence, it's only going to have an advisory function. It's just a half-hearted willingness to give the tenants influence. The Workers' Party, together with the SV, has made a proposal asking the Government to return to the Stortinget with proposals to ensure that the trust-elected residents' representatives have a legal right to influence. The centre party will not be in such a legal right. It's disappointing. The centre party very often shows that they are concerned with caring for the weakest, and there is no doubt the lessee in a relationship between the lessee and the owner. But here, the civility of the Senterpartiet turns out – it is most important to take care of the owner of the house. What is it that the Centre Party will not participate in such a legislative change, which would strengthen the rights of tenants, help to improve the cooperation climate and give the trust-chosen real influence?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e446	It is correct that we have been invited by the Workers' Party to participate in a decision that this should be tightened up as soon as possible by the Ministry. We don't want to be part of it. The real influence of the trust-chosen as it is now, is not dictated by the Storting, but I assume that this is something that is going to be developed in the individual housing situation. I think it is important to try this out, not to say that no matter how this works, we should review it as soon as possible. It is right that the lessee is weaker than the owner in a relationship like this, just as it is in a workplace that the employer is stronger than the employee. Then we make a law that protects the weakest, and that's what we do in this law. I believe that on point after point we strengthen the housing security of the tenant. This is based on the experience we have had for many years with the previous law. If we have gone too far – I doubt it. I mean, as I said in my post, we've found a useful balance. If we went much further, as the Workers' Party might want, I think it could have gone so far Right Fear that it is now going, that fewer apartments and dwellings become available for rent, and we will certainly not have earned it in the situation that we are in now, where there are at least some places in the country where there is a significant lack of apartments for rent.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e455	Just a short line to Morten Lund from the Senterpartiet. Morten Lund said he wanted a strong protection against dismissal. It sounds lenient and orderly. But the problem with a strong cancellation protection is that a landlord who gets a request from someone who wants to rent will be very careful with whom he rents out to when the cancellation protection is so strong. Those who are judged to have problems will get sick before they get even rented. On the other hand, a strong protection against dismissal will strengthen those who already have no major problems in getting a dwelling. What does the Center Party have to say to that? This is a paradox. But as I see it, that's exactly how it's going to work. Those who have problems will be starved, and will have major problems getting a lease at all when the protection against dismissal is as strong as the Center Party wants it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e460	I disagree that the protection against dismissal is so strong. It will still be tempting for economic reasons, and for most owners imperative, to rent out more than those that are ideal tenants. The system we've gradually been given with the house market regulations makes the rentals so high that the owners earn acceptable. The market price will take care of that. But then serious landlords who want people in their apartments have to realize that there is a need for home security for those who are going to live there, that's part of the product, and they have to accept that people are different. There are people who smoke and people who play music – and there may be other negative things about people who maybe some landlords don't want. But there'll be someone standing at the back of the queue if there's too few homes for rent, and I think we have to do what we can to stimulate more construction, actually for construction beyond what the market principle offers, as we do, for example. sees it in Oslo now, where there are too few dwellings. It goes to the degrees out over the weakest. And those who have something to rent out serve too much, in my opinion, without what should have been required of them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e465	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e468	I would first like to address the suggestions that SV has made in the setting. This case is very closely linked to the case we have dealt with before today, namely the notification of housing for young and disadvantaged people. There is an overweight of young people and people with poor advice among those who are on the rental market and who are renting housing. Therefore, in regulating this, it is very important to take into account the fact that there is a rather uneven strength ratio on the rental market. And the crooked force ratio increases because there's so too few cheap rental homes, and there's very few rental homes in general. The Norwegian market differs significantly from the housing market in neighbouring countries and other European countries by different approaches in this area. It also stands out in the press areas by the fact that there are sky-high prices. And this we have to consider when we're going to look at how we're going to align the law, because a dwelling is not the same as a car, a bread or something else we buy and need – as I said in a line instead. It is a very basic good, so fundamental that SV wants it to be constitutionally established. This must be taken into account in the law, because we believe that everyone should live safely, whether they own or they rent. Many people don't have the ability to own. Being able to settle in a permanent home in a rental relationship is important. Several will choose such housing in the future as well, without necessarily being disadvantaged for that reason. Increased education, mobility and changing lifestyles make it more topical. And that freedom of choice between owning and renting believes SV should be increased. SV has agreed with most of the changes that have been proposed – I will not spend much time on it – but we stand alone to believe that if it is possible to assume the deposit sum in relation to the disputed rental, there must be written consent or a final judgment. In the question of extended rental if the lessor is still to rent out, we are also alone. I think the representative Odd Eriksen instead misunderstood what I was talking about, because this has nothing to do with the lifting of the house rent regulation law. This is simply a provision in the new House Rental Act, and the SV's point is that the tenant must have the right to continue to rent if the dwelling is to be rented out normally in the open market. It is precisely the security of residence that we are looking for, and the provision does not prevent the lessor from ending the rental relationship if there is a real reason for it, for example. that the owner shall use the dwelling sjl, or that someone in the household shall use it, or that the tenant does not fulfil his obligations under the lease. We've also gone to the point of borrowing for rent. We have had some doubts about this, but we are concerned that there will be a queue manager in the queue of those who need an organized dwelling and have lasting problems. We have wanted to assess such a scheme in a broader context, looking at how this works with the various grant schemes, for example, and how to prevent it from becoming a queue, so that those who have the opportunity to submit such a loan come to the front of the queue. Apart from that, we also see that we are gradually getting quite a number of pensioners who have great opportunities and who should actually help to solve their own housing needs in the future. Otherwise, SV is happy that there has been a majority for the creation of a housing permit committee. We view it as a system that can evolve over time into a nationwide system, which we want. We want this to evolve towards rental agencies that can participate in and discipline this market and prevent unreasonable rentals, but also resolve conflicts, because we know that conflicts in this area are escalating. And if you don't have any arrangements before you get to the courtroom, it can quickly lock up, and you spend a lot of time and resources and money, and get stuck in a conflict that might be solved in a simpler and more reasonable way for all parties. SV stands alone to oppose the lifting of the house rent regulation law, and that is because we believe that we should have got up and stand on the legs of a non-profit rental sector first, so that people had an opportunity to choose something else. We want to vote against the lifting of it, because we think it's the wrong time to do it. Questions need to be asked about what is most important in the housing market now. For SV, it is most important to ensure that there are more poor advice that gets a dwelling they can pay. It is first on the agenda for us. If we're deregulating now, that means that more people are having problems paying the rent. We see that there may be some justice considerations in relation to who lives in these apartments, and who does not live in them. It's a fact that very many of the people who live in them are, retired or students. The average of those living there has less income than others. It doesn't mean that everyone is directly in need, but the point is that if we do this now, there'll actually be more problems in the housing market. Therefore, we believe that it would have been right to wait, because none of these dwellings are released so that those who have poor advice can get them, even if you deregulate them. There is a wrong instrument in a situation where there is a desperate lack of cheap housing. I refer to the government's letter to the committee, which says that we today lack 50,000 rental homes. Many of them should be reasonable. What we're talking about now is a lot of thousands – 12,000 cheap homes – that will eventually disappear from the market. It takes the jam some time before we can get enough rental homes, at the rate that it seems the Stortinget has planned to add up to the construction of rental homes. What we're doing today actually contributes to the situation on the housing market getting worse and not better, and it's very worrying. We have also seen that these regulatory provisions have been very important to prevent prices from being taken out of stock, and that the provisions have not prevented the necessary refurbishment and subsequent increase in rent. What's also bothered us is that there have been no calculations on how this will turn out. What problems will each individual face when this happens, and what problems will the municipalities face? No particular consideration has been given to how this is to be solved, or to who it is to pay when it is, for example. financial problems arise. How much will this turn out to be in increased social assistance, who will have demands for housing support and how much? In fact, the legislation now exists among those living in these apartments who do not want housing support. So to a problem I've raised before. People who have lived in such apartments for a long time have often cleaned up at their own expense. Will they now have to pay increased rent for the increase in capital that they have paid? How are they going to get a right to some of those values if they can't afford to live, but they have to move? It's hard to be sure that, as the representative Gedrem said instead, they might think this is okay because they've lived cheaply for so long, and this will be compensated over time. It's not sure it's like this in any case. It's actually a problem that you haven't secured orderly justice around this before going to a deregulation. SV has realized that this strict provision of the regulation law is impossible to fight against. That is why we have proposed a more cushioned increase in the price of these dwellings, by 10 pst. – i.e. index adjustment plus 10 pst. per 1 % years of rent. It's essential that this is the basic rental we're talking about here. SV promotes this proposal, because we believe that it would provide a stepping-up of the rent that we believe most people could live with, and that would create fewer problems both for those who live there and also for the municipality, which in that case had to deal with housing solutions – which we know that the municipalities in the press areas do not have at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e498	Karin Andersen has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e503	I want to put Karin Andersen's thinking in a slightly larger perspective. She says that housing is a fundamental need, that everyone should have a place to live and provide lower prices – and she states that there is an overweight of weaker demands on the rental market. This should therefore be achieved by means of political regulation. It starts with an expropriation of our best agricultural land at a poor linoleum price, and then it continues with housing-subsidized housing, and then you have to have rental regulation. What does this mean in a district policy perspective? This means that the resources of society are deployed to make urban living cheaper, and cities will become more seductive and more competitive in terms of competition for the population of Norway. Can it not be seen that this policy is the true opposite of district policy? Now you are suddenly concerned that there are not enough people in the cities. But the ratio is that people are streaming into cities, and that's why there's too few homes. Then you're so worried that these don't get housing, and therefore you have to try to get them housing, with the result that the districts are being emptied. Then, political regulations or public funds must be used to ensure that people live in the districts, despite the temptation to move to the city. That's really the dilemma.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e517	It may not be so original to think that making it expensive, bad and difficult to live in the city would be a good district policy. It's possible to think like that, I don't think it works. It is actually cheaper to live in the districts now, and in the areas of relocation it is possible to get a very reasonable and good housing. That's how it works, and it's an instrument that we've seen doesn't work. There are probably other things than the housing price that determine where people are going to live. But it is quite right, as the representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen says, that SV wants more public involvement in the housing sector than what we have today. We want primarily to spend the money in a non-profit residential sector and to build a lot more student homes. That's the most important thing, because then we know what we get, and we know how much money we spend. We have this structural element in housing policy, which Norway lacks almost entirely today in relation to all other countries, and which causes the imbalance in the rental market to be as high as it is, and which makes us feel that we need to have quite strict provisions in relation to the rent regulation law, so that the weakest party is given the strongest protection in this law. We see that this is necessary because the tenant is in a significantly weaker position than the lessor is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e524	The representative Andersen stated that SV agreed with most of the things that the department had proposed, and that is not so strange, because for the purpose of the law it is said that the law should help to ensure that tenants of housing can have a high degree of housing security. And it says that tenants should, among other things, be confident that they will not be terminated for no cause of action. It also states that the purpose of the law is to contribute to the establishment of a well-functioning housing market. Nevertheless, in a debate with the representative Aud Gaundal in Political Quarter this morning, Andersen claimed that it was not right that part of the law was obsolete. The House Lease Law Committee gave its position in 1993, NOW 1993: 4 House Lease Contracts Act, and the bill is based on this. The 1995 housing survey concluded that it was about 460000 rental dwellings — except housing companies and housing companies. The study by the Norwegian Construction Research Institute in 1992 shows that the strict regulation covers only approx. 12 000 dwellings here in Oslo and 1 800 dwellings in Trondheim. Does not the representative Andersen see that it is very unreasonable to maintain the strict regulation, when one has exceptions for state, county municipalities, municipalities, settlements and single dwellings and two-man dwellings? Doesn't Karin Andersen see that the old law is now a outdated law?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e531	It is true that this law is old, and that it occurred in a different time and under different conditions than what we have in the housing market today. It is true that it is possible to demonstrate unfairness in relation to how this turns out, which I tried to say a little about in my post. But the point for SV is to try to focus on what we think is the big problem in the housing market today, namely that very many people lack housing, very many have poor advice and have problems getting housing, and many are unable to do it. And then we've tried to think this way: how does this work if we remove these regulation provisions, when the market is like that, and the Stortinget hasn't come so far that we've got a real bet on the construction of student homes or non-profit rental homes? We haven't been able to put any measure on this yet, we just have some statements of intent. When we see that this will actually lead to the problems in the housing market getting worse for those who are having trouble, we have chosen to take the most account of it. We do not ignore the fact that there are any unfair points here, but for us the most important thing in this case has been trying to do something about the most serious problem first. Once we get started with such a non-profit residential sector – and we can set targets for both it and student homes – that will make us feel confident that people have a different choice and that no more people will get into the housing market that will have even greater problems, the time is ripe to remove these provisions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e537	My claim is that the reason for the lack of housing and a major reason for the move to cities is that the natural market mechanisms that would have slowed this move have been abandoned by means of political regulations that Karin Ander Sen, on which an avid district police spokeswoman, is just following. She says in an answer to me that she doesn't believe that it's the housing prices that are crucial when people move in to Oslo. But at the same time she says that housing is a basic need and therefore needs to be regulated more than all other areas. When this is a basic need, it should also be thought that it is of fundamental importance for people to move. I don't think you can get away from the fact that this is a dilemma that needs to be taken seriously, when you're concerned that the districts are being emptied of people, and you can do what you can to build more homes and get cheaper housing in the cities, with the result that more people are tempted to leave the districts. So there is a problem that there are few homes, and the reason is that there are so many from the districts. This is a typical example of a lack of overall vision, as sectoral politicians who are supposed to satisfy different groups in society simply lose sight of it. That's why I wanted to say it in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e548	No one is surprised that I disagree with the representative, Gundersen. He explains my and SV's position that we lack a holistic view. No, I don't think so, but we actually want to have a system where you not only use the market, but also control. And then there are different forces that work, both in terms of moving and in other areas. There are a lot of reasons for people's choice of residence, and we who are involved in district policy have some thoughts about what it is that works and does not work in that context. Work and school are at least two very important arguments. Schools, and school places, are largely centralised — there are very many students and students travelling to Oslo. Therefore, a large-scale investment in student housing will at least have no greater regional policy impact than the situation today, and is probably the segment of the housing market on which you can invest without enhancing the flow of moving. I see that the representative of Gundersen has a point when he says that establishing more and cheaper homes in the big cities can reinforce the flow of moving. There will be a lure element in addition to some other elements that a large city is now attracting, and that obviously drags. The problem here is that you want to weigh a lot of visions up against each other. We therefore believe that the market can function in a number of areas, but that the market must be regulated, especially in those areas that cover the very basic needs of human life – and housing is one of them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e557	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e560	I am pleased that the work on the new law on rental contracts has come so far that the setting is now for treatment in Odelstinget. As you know, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has put forward proposals for a new law on rental contracts in Ot.prp. No 82 for 1997-98 on 18 June last year. The law is based on the suspension of the Husleielov committee, NOU 1993 nr. 4th@item: inlistbox The law will replace the house rental law of 1939 and the rent regulation law of 1967. The new law will regulate rental contracts for both dwellings and premises. In designing the bill, the Government has had two main objectives in mind. On the one hand, we have been concerned about protecting the tenant's dwelling in order to achieve as much security as possible. Safety and stability around living conditions mean much to the quality of life of individuals. We have therefore seen it as important to ensure the lessee against unfair terminations and rental increases. Nor shall it be possible for the lessee to be thrown out for no objective reason, and neutral bodies shall be in place to settle any disputes between the parties. On the other hand, it has also been an objective to facilitate a well-functioning rental market. The protection of the lessee must therefore not be so strong that it removes the motivation of the lessor to rent out vacant dwellings. This is particularly important in a rental market dominated by non-professional private landlords, as we have it in Norway where this group accounts for a total of 60 pst. by the lessors. I believe that the bill in the bill takes into account and cares for the interests of both the tenant and the lessor in a balanced way. I am very pleased that there is a majority for most of the proposals in the proposal, so that what the Government has proposed is adopted. I note that a large majority have joined the Government's proposal to wind up the "strong" house rent regulation in Oslo and Trondheim over a decade. Although the proposal will lead to higher rents for the affected residents, I believe that the proposal is correct, not least because the house rental regulation law does not allocate the regulated dwellings to persons with special needs or by social characteristics. Thus, the law implies a totally random economic advantage for the tenants that obtain such a rented dwelling. There are many examples of rental conditions where rentals are not particularly difficult, but nevertheless low housing costs have been compared to and compared to other social groups. I have noticed that the majority believe that the rent including the changes in the consumer price index should be increased by a maximum of 20 pst. per 1 % for the first nine years, and for the 10th year to be set up for market rental. Of course, I take note of the majority's wishes, but I must be allowed to state that I am somewhat skeptical about this arrangement of binding the rent increase to certain percentages. With a very low rent, even 20 pst. increase leads to small additions in crowns and ears. The result, therefore, may be a formidable increase in the tenth year. After my assessment, it would have been better, and more predictable, if we had had a steady rental increase throughout the liquidation period. But as I said, I take note of the majority's wishes. The government has been and is committed to securing disadvantaged residents. Let me therefore remind you of the proposal we put forward in the 1999 State Budget, which ensures that residents are offered housing support to the House Bank. This is important in order to address any financial problems encountered by the residents. The assumption is that the residents concerned meet the household type and level of income requirements in the same way as other households receiving housing support. We have made some calculations to figure out how this could work and let me show you one example: a pensioner who currently lives in such a dwelling and pays NOK 3000 does not have housing support. At NOK 3000 plus 20 pst. So if you increase, you get a rent of $3,600. In such a case, the housing allowance will be NOK 1 852, and the self-payment for the rent that the pensioner will have to pay after this conversion will be NOK 1747, i.e. almost half of what he is paying today. The new law will improve predictability of the development of rentals. At the time of conclusion of the lease, there is a prohibition on agreeing unreasonable rental prices. Later, each party may require annual adjustment of the rental according to changes in the consumer price index. Every three years, the parties may require an adjustment of the rental to average rentals in similar conditions of rental. This will counteract large differences between legal rentals and the general level of rentals in other comparable rentals. The practice of using short-term leases has developed over several years. The purpose of such time limits has been to set aside the lessee's protection against dismissal. With a view to reducing the possibility of such abuse, the lessee will now, as a general rule, be entitled to a minimum lease term of three years, using fixed-term leases. Lives in the landlord in the same house and it's about, among other things. renting of a dwelling on the ground or on the ceiling is the requirement for a minimum period of one year. The lessor may also enter into shorter-term leases if the lessor himself or someone belonging to the household is required to use the dwelling or if there are other factual reasons for the time-limit. With these and some other proposals, I believe that the interests of both parties have been properly safeguarded. I record that the majority wants to try an alternative dispute resolution body in the Municipality of Oslo. The aim shall be to reduce both the costs and time-use of house rental visas. The intention of the proposal is good, but I am somewhat skeptical of the proposal, as it appears both in the proposal and in letters from the Ministry of Local Affairs and Regional Affairs. Long-term problems and high costs of court proceedings are, of course, a general issue of justice policy. In my view, therefore, such problems should be solved by improving the effectiveness of the judiciary and the rules on free legal assistance, not necessarily through specific arrangements in some areas of law, as provided for. But, of course, I will follow up the majority's desire to carry out such an attempt. As I have pointed out in the letter to the Committee, it requires a new code before the experiment can begin, and it will therefore take some time before the experiment can be launched. It has been mentioned earlier in the debate here, among others. Mr. Karin Andersen pointed out the problem that might arise if a tenant has cost a lot of his apartment and now, if necessary, will start paying more in rent. I would like to draw the attention of the representative Andersen to § 4 – 3, adaptation to the rent of the gang, where it says in particular that the rent determination is to deduct the part of the rental value that is due to the improvements and efforts of the tenant, so I believe that that concern is not relevant. Finally, I would like to say how pleased I am that a large majority have joined the proposal to give tenants the right to choose a trustee in properties where the same landlord rents more dwellings. I think it might have a positive effect on the management of the property and promote well-being in the housing environment. I also believe that trustees can give good advice to the lessor on issues that are of common interest to the lessors, as well as to the lessors.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e588	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e591	The Council of State has received broad support for its proposal for a new house rental law, and I am aware that the majority on which the law now rests, because the Council of State is a pleasant majority. The Labour Party agrees that the law provides the necessary security for both families and lonely people who rent housing, whether it is too short or too long. However, the lifting of the house rent regulation may mean a certain uncertainty factor for those affected, and many of the inputs made to the committee indicate just that. The question to the Council of State will be how the State will ensure that this will not get unintended results in that some lessors will increase the rent beyond what the majority assume in the appointment. In contrast to the Government, the majority of the Committee has otherwise found that it would like to set up a Houselord Committee, which was also the subject of the Council of State, and which is based on a probationary system in one or more municipalities. The majority assumes that the defendants will initially cover the costs of the arrangement themselves. However, I would like to stress on the part of the majority that, in order to realize the creation of a housing permit committee, the Government must consider the need to provide financial resources. Now the Council of State also says that it will take some time before a law on the rental commission will come into place. The question then arises: does the Council have any idea of how long it might take to have such a dispute resolution mechanism, as outlined in the setting, on foot and to work?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e600	I understood that the first question was raised by the representative's concern about whether there were some landlords who would now increase their rent by more than 20 p.m., which a majority in Odelstinget is in favour of. But it's clear that what Odelstinget now decides is what should be followed up, so I don't think there's any reason to have any concern there. Actually, my concern is more about what can happen in the tenth year of a while, but that's what I said in my post. Of course, when it comes to the creation of a housing permit committee for Oslo, we in the department will work on that legislation as soon as possible, without it being possible for me now to say how many weeks or months it will take. But if we're to get this done in a proper and proper way, so that this is an experiment that can give us a real basis to see if we should go ahead with it when the trial system is over, we have to do a thorough pre-work, so that we don't start anything that turns out to be a failure. Therefore, I ask that we have time to do this properly, so that the test system we are now running is quality-proof. As far as the pleasant majority is concerned, I have to be allowed to say that I've been happy for everything I've been given the majority for in Stortinget, I'm happy for everything I get consent to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e609	A central theme here today has been the timing and timing of leases. The vast majority have been very satisfied with the law that it should be impossible to enter into fixed-term leases for less than three or one year. But then it is that the law allows for a number of exceptions to these provisions. In the case of access to a fixed-term lease, reference can be made to the use of the dwelling as a dwelling of the lessor. Then a rule can be waived. If the lessor has "other factual reason" for the time-limit, the time-limit rule may also be waived. In the case of an indefinite lease, in particular in the case of termination, a reason may be given that the dwelling is to be used as a dwelling by the lessor or by someone belonging to the household, that it is a demolition or conversion, that the lessee has failed the lease or that there is any other material reason for the termination of the lease. The point is that there are a number of ways of adapting to this, which actually seem to be able to be done in such a way that these provisions can actually be circumvented, so that they have no real significance. My question is then: if this is possible, why in the world are we going to have these rigid rules?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e622	In the beginning, I thought that the representative Torbjørn Andersen had changed his mind during the debate and would still go in order for us to have fixed-term leases. But then I understood that it was the possibilities to make exceptions that he believes are too extensive. I am a little surprised because I understood from the conclusion that the representative would nevertheless not have fixed-term leases. As I said in the introduction, we have tried all the way to balance between the tenant's consideration and the lessor's consideration. And when 60 pst. It is important that we create a system that actually allows us to get into the market as many rental homes as possible. It makes us set a year if you're going to rent out your base apartment, or you're going to rent out the ceiling apartment, if you have it. That is also why it is possible to enter into a shorter lease if a family itself needed the whole house. I think that if we had been too rigid there, it would have led us to get fewer apartments out on the rental market. And we've been busy getting to the rental market as many apartments as possible. That's why we've tried to take both sides into account, and I think we've managed to find a golden middle ground between consideration for two different parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e629	There has been fear from tenants of how they have formulated the provision on the minimum time for leases in the bill, that it coincides with the timing of the regulation of the rental according to § 4-3 and that it may mean that the lessor feels earned to replace the tenants every three years. Therefore, the SV has made a proposal for which we have not received a majority, but which assumes that at the end of the contract a lessee has the right to extend the lease if the dwelling is still to be rented on the open market, and this does not restrict the option for the lessor to terminate the lease according to the rules laid down in the other provisions, for example. by having a lessee who fails to fulfil his obligations. I could imagine asking the Council of State if she thinks it would be problematic to have such a provision, if it would not just ensure the security of living for those who are tenants. That’s an important point – and it’s underlined by several people, including the United Kingdom. very strong from LO – that this with the security and predictability of tenants must weigh very heavily in the design of such a law. Does the Council see the possibility of such a right for a lessee to be able to extend his lease if it is still to be rented out and there are no other problems?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e636	In § 4–3, which I understand the representative was now concerned about, i.e. what is being adapted to the people's rent, we believe that we have tried to balance that between different reasons that are necessary. I do have the approach to it that there should be little reason for a lessor to cancel a lessee after three years if there is a lessee who has fulfilled its obligations and with which there has been no problem, to say it very simply. But at the same time, it is clear that if there are defaults or other reasons that warrant it, then a lessor must also have the opportunity to ask for a change. We've assessed back and forth many alternatives and opportunities, and that's what we've finally come up with, and I see that there's a majority for. I think this is a balance between two different interests that are somewhat balanced. Should it prove necessary when we have some experience of how this law works, there is an opportunity to make proposals for changes, but I would like this to be tried in practice. I think it's going to work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e646	Once there is an empty line to the Council of State, I would like to use it. I would like to focus on another remarkableness in this law that has not yet been promoted in the debate. The household admission rule says that without the lessor's consent, tenants can take up their wife or roommates in their household, both their children, as well as their own and their relatives in the straight up and down lines as well as their foster children. These aren't small things. The Progress Party has proposed that it be limited to spouses or cohabitants as well as both children. Why has the ministry not seen the need to clarify certain restrictions here, as this could lead to one or two people renting out to one or two people finally ending up with the multiplicity of people living in their homes? How can the landlord at all reserve itself against this? I would like to know what the department's assessment of this relationship has been, because I see clearly that there may be a practical conflict here in certain situations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e657	Yes, we have actually outlined a limit on how many family members a tenant can take in without going to the landlord and asking about the law, and I think it is reasonable that someone who rents an apartment will have the opportunity to take in both the wife and the child and possibly her child or his child. As I said, we've limited it to what we normally define as the ‘nearest family’. I don't ignore the fact that the representative may be right that someone can have very large family, but we have taken that chance, and I think most landlords will be able to live with that. Most people don't have so many kids now, so if it were to get both my kids and your kids into such an apartment, I think most landlords will accept it without prior permission.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e662	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e667	After a volatile reading of the proposition and setting, there are two things I've attached to. I assume that the majority on page 14 of the vote believes that there is the highest legal rental that can be ‘increased by up to 20 pst. per 1 % years in the first nine years. ‘... So there's another question here, maybe first of all to the Council of State. Let's imagine that a town hall is completely renovated, so that the costs for the owner are very high. The owner will in no way obtain compensation for the renewal costs by applying the rental 20 pst. Under the law of today, the owner will be able to rely on § 3 paragraph. 3, i.e. the exemption from the separate house rental regulation, where this ‘because of special circumstances does not fit the rental relationship. ‘ This derogation is now proposed with the consequence that, as far as I can see, the owner of the house cannot, under any circumstances, increase rent in excess of 20 pst. I would believe that the repeal of § 3 paragraph. 3 could delay urban renewal and reduce extensive renovation of old apartments, as the owner of the house cannot fully offset the costs of higher rents. I want to know if this is a correct perception.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e678	I'm not a lawyer, unlike Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, so I had to confer with a lawyer. But in the case that Fridtjof Frank Gundersen took up, it is that, by full renovation, the entire dwelling goes out of this system, so that the problem that the representative Gundersen addresses will actually not exist, after what I understand.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e683	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 333]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e697	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of changing lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of main speakers from each party group and after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e706	The proposition we're dealing with now is divided into two. The first part concerns the establishment of a foreign student to deal with complaints under the Foreign Affairs Act. The second part concerns a number of individual changes in the Foreign Affairs Act, some of which are of a technical nature, some are about flexibility and a decoration of the legislation as a result of developments, while some are about direct, clear tightening. This denominator has a long history. A similar proposal was presented in Ot.prp. No 38 for 1995-96 of the then Labour Party Government. At that time, the majority, who were all except the Right Party and the Advance Party, came in for a form of mention, but asked the Government to further clarify what areas of activity should be called, and not least the experience of our neighbouring country. In this proposition, the Government presents two alternatives: a foreign student who deals with all matters, and a refugee student who has a more limited work area. Since the majority are now in favour of foreign education and no one is in favour of refugee education, we have also paid no attention to commenting on a refugee topic. We have chosen a foreign student because we think it will be difficult to define matters, as one has to do with a refugee student. It will be difficult to find out which issues are asylum-related. The pure asylum issues may be clear enough, but it will be difficult to set a limit. In addition, there are many issues that are complex, which have both asylum and other issues. In addition, we believe that there may be a need for such an appeal body for other matters as well. The main reason for having such a name is that we want to strengthen legal certainty for immigrants. A new and independent assessment of the case by a court-like body we think will just do that. And not least emotionally, many of those seeking a stay in Norway will probably feel that they are now getting better legal certainty. This does not mean, of course, that legal certainty is not good today, but we believe that it can be even better. And of course, you'll have the same opportunities to sue matters further in ordinary courts. In addition, we have a reform going on within the administration. The line is that in areas with a large scale of individual cases, they are being treated outside the departments. And there aren't many areas that have the scope of these issues. This means that there will be no authorising authority in individual cases. The exceptions concern issues in which the monitoring service is involved, as well as issues where foreign policy considerations need to be taken into account. But here the majority emphasises that it must be done with caution, and there must be special and weighty considerations behind it. The experience gained from Denmark suggests that a type of denominator with five members can be wise and that the chairman should have experience in the judiciary. The four others shall be appointed, as they are known, by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, legal organisations and humanitarian organisations. As far as the last group is concerned, the Labour Party has previously expressed scepticism because there may be a risk that the members will then be perceived as hostages in relation to the individual decisions. But when we now stress that they are not representatives of the humanitarian organisations, but only appointed by them, we believe that the humanitarian organisations can have full coverage, with full integrity to be able to engage, and also make criticisms in individual case decisions. There should be access to personal attendance under the heading, but not an absolute right. It should be something called determining. The majority says that it is of a court-like nature, even though it is an administrative body. The more important the case is for a single person, the easier it should also be to have access to personal encounters. With regard to matters, they will be many, and those of an administrative nature, we cannot see anything in the way of the head of staff being able to delegate to his secretariat. The chairperson must also be able to have a certain authority alone in matters where there are no significant doubts. When it comes to turning negative decisions into positive ones, and it is obvious that such a change can take place, the denominator must be able to do so on his own. He must be able to do the same if a complaint is considered completely unfounded, but here the majority of the committee asks that he be particularly cautious. The majority of the Committee has amended the legislative text of the Government’s proposal to take account of information that could have been submitted in the past. Here, too, the government parties believe that only if it is obvious that the new documents do not amend the decision can the negotiator choose to reject them alone. We in the Workers' Party are pleased about that. Of other changes, many, as I mentioned, are of a technical nature. I don't think I'm going to tire the assembly of going into them. These are some changes that are in fact fully agreed within the Committee – this is the technical one. There is also a consensus within the Committee on non-technical proposals, namely the establishment of the internal organisation of a foreign national. It is also the case today that you can go to custody of people with unknown identity and foreigners to be sent out of the country. The Committee considers it unfortunate that these are in normal prison together with others convicted in criminal cases and believes it is good that we now set up our own institutions for them. There we can get more groups of professionals to take care of the foreigners while they are there. However, there must be the same strictness in assessing the need to preserve them. There is also agreement in the Committee on the amendment of the pension scheme in order to protect non-residents, namely that those who have received a final refusal and do not wish to obtain travel documents must be kept. The purpose of the prison is then to provide them for the home country’s representation in order to obtain such evidence. The Committee agrees with the new proposal that general experience should also serve as a basis for assessing the need for storage. Of course, before storage is done, it will be an individual assessment that is based on the individual case, but this assessment may also focus on general experience. However, the Committee stresses the need to be very careful about other general experiences and to consider other less comprehensive measures. With regard to identity, there is also full agreement in the Committee that it is causing problems in practice, and unfortunately it is often quite unnecessary that refugees do not dare, will not or cannot declare their proper identity. We believe that it is then right to introduce an obligation to actively contribute to finding the right identity, but of course only in cases where the right identity will not conflict with the need for protection. Because this is now a criminally sanctioned threat, the Committee stresses that it is important that we have supplementary rules on what this obligation entails. In the case of house surveys, a unanimous committee opposes what the Government proposes. We stress that house surveys are a serious interference with personal integrity, and therefore the Committee would like it to be a concrete, qualified suspicion as for other types of house surveys under the Criminal Procedures Act. We should not accept that this suspicion is somewhat weaker. This is what we agree on. Disagreements go on many points, for example: the duration of the authorisation to stay in the country. Here, the majority, all except the members of the Progress Party and the Right, believe that it is both impractical and bureaucratic to have it the way we have it today. It leads to long and late proceedings that only stays are granted for one year at a time. We want to say that you can stay for one, two or three years at a time, depending on the basis you have to stay. If there are cases where there is a need for control, the residence permit shall only be granted for one year at a time. We also believe that notification of the change of dwelling, which is to be made to the police today, is unnecessary. It is the People's Register that should have the message anyway. Reporting to the police only leads to more bureaucracy. However, these two proposals, which would facilitate red tape and facilitate proceedings, are opposed by the Progress Party. In the case of family reunification, everyone believes, still minus the Right Party and the Advance Party, that there must be the possibility of family reunification, even when one has resided under Section 9. These are people who have legal residence in the country, and then it is quite natural that they should also be able to have family reunification, as is the practice of today. Furthermore, when it comes to family reunification, the majority say that we are happy that we are now equalizing cohabitants and spouses, and that we are also equalizing gay cohabitants. We are very pleased that there is a Christian People's Party in the government that is implementing that reform, and we in the Workers' Party hope that it might spread in other areas as well. The Party of Progress and the Right does not support that equality. But something that is not good about family reunification, and that the Workers' Party alone opposes, is that children should not have family reunification with their parents. They shall not even be given the opportunity to be assessed for family reunification with their parents if they are married or have a partner in their home country. We think it's quite horrific that you're being cut off from that assessment when we know that there are cultures where 14- and 15-year-olds are being coerced. In the case of expulsion, the Progress Party, as the only party, opposes the possibility of expelling tourists for criminal acts committed after entry. But what we in the Labour Party regard as serious about expulsion is the new proposal that is supported by everyone in the Committee, except the members of the Workers' Party, who are about to expel the mentally ill. So now the government – and gets a majority together with the Right Party and the Advance Party – proposes that getting to the border and being obviously mentally ill should be an independent ground for rejection. We in the Workers' Party ask ourselves why in all the world it is. We haven't just asked ourselves about it, we've had discussions in the committee on this, we've finished the proposition, but we haven't got a single reason why in the world there should be an independent reason for rejection. In the comments of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party in the setting, they just argue against themselves by referring to making a diagnosis after a short assessment is difficult. And just that you have a disease, you can prevent a person from finding that you actually need protection, and you can be expelled before you get it. Mentally ill people need help. It may be best for them to return to their home country, but then it's going to happen because it's best for them. Psychiatric patients shall not be given any special treatment. It shall not constitute a basis for residence in the country, nor shall it be a basis for expulsion. In the Labour Party, we are also quite surprised that the Government, together with the Right and the Advance Party, will have a majority in order to remove the 48-hour minimum period, which we have today since the decision on expulsion has been taken, until it is implemented. We have no reason, and we know that it can have serious consequences for some people if there's something they haven't pulled around with, and they can actually have a need for protection that they haven't been able to get before now they don't get the little extra time to get around to get along with it. In addition, we cannot see why tourists and others should be cut off from 48 hours to possibly extend a tourist visa application. The working party and many with us, both hearing bodies and others, were quite disappointed when the government presented its first comprehensive legislative proposal. We had a backstop of years with aggressive criticism of the Labour Party's immigration policy. Then they come up with a proposition that contains adjustments in the pact of evolution, and tightening that gives us pickles. We have received a confession from a state council that was sick today that entry into the government office taught her that this area was more difficult than she had thought. I hope we can now recognize our social conscience, that we will never get the feeling that we can do enough for people who need our help. This is a difficult area. Let's agree on improvements, we who want it!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e764	The question of a separate complaint subject for foreign affairs has been discussed earlier in Stortinget. The party of progress and the right went against it at that time and still does it. The reason is, among other things. a. that we consider this to be a form of discharge by the department. In addition, there is a composition of this complaint to which my colleagues probably understand that the Progress Party is very sceptical. With regard to the other proposals, the Progress Party will vote against the proposals to amend the Foreign Affairs Act which are more liberal. The rapporteur explained very well, I think, because where these differences lie. The asylum and refugee policy of the Progress Party is so well known that I am not going to have a debate on it now. I would just like to pay attention to the proposals in the vote, where the Progress Party has a proposal on its own and a proposal with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e771	Jan Simonsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e776	I noticed that the representative Simonsen himself made it clear that the starting point for his position in relation to the law we are discussing was that he went against what could give the impression of being a liberalisation, and was for everything that could give the impression of being a tightening. There's actually a lot of tightening up in the government's proposal. Some of them are contractions that we from the Workers' Party can't be on. We want a comment from Simonsen related to a comment in the setting that concerns this with reversion. The setting reads as follows: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party believe that it should be an absolute requirement that refugees coming from countries where the conflicts from which they have escaped and who can no longer be considered to be in danger in their country of origin should return in order to contribute to the post-conflict build-up of their country of origin...’. My question to the representative is: Does he think that this should apply no matter how long it takes before the conflict in the country in question is settled? Should a condition be imposed when they are allowed to stay in Norway, that they then have to return, regardless of whether it is actually for children who may have had many years behind in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e788	When a refugee comes to Norway as an asylum seeker or a quota refugee and receives residence as a refugee in our country, he should be made aware of the rules. And the rules shall be that unless he has become a Norwegian national in the meantime, he must return to his country of origin if the conditions from which he fled have changed, so that he no longer becomes in danger.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e793	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e796	The Christian People's Party is pleased that today it will be decided to set up a complaint panel for foreign affairs. This denominator has many waited a long time for! The subject matter is important for various reasons, mainly because it strengthens legal certainty for each applicant. As a general rule, the applicant is given access to a personal appearance, and of course also to have a lawyer with him. The presence at the time of the proceedings may make it easier to accept the decision taken. Legal certainty is not only that laws and regulations are actually followed, but also about trust that this happens. An independent, judicially-like term may give many people greater confidence in the decisions taken than the current system, as it works. The Christian People's Party is pleased that humanitarian organisations, the Norwegian Association of Lawyers, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, respectively, are proposing who can be appointed members. The Christian People's Party believes that this procedure/organisation is favourable, because it will ensure that its members will have competence in the matter. Members shall not act on behalf of the body proposing them but shall act on a free and independent basis. It has been claimed that the establishment of a foreign student is ‘political disclaimer’. We do not agree with that. It is important to stress that the Ministry continues to be responsible for managing the Foreign Affairs Act. When the Ministry is released for the treatment of individual cases, more time may be spent on legislative development and overall assessments. At some points in the vote, the majority splits. The Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal to remove the 48-hour rule by expulsion. This does not mean that all residents of the country are illegally expelled immediately. That just means you have the opportunity to do it. Each case shall be individually assessed in accordance with the rules of the Administrative Act. Under the Administrative Act, the foreigner is to be given the opportunity to appeal, and he may also ask for the appeal to be dismissed, i.e. that the complainant is allowed to stay in the country until the complaint has been dealt with. So it could be 48 hours or more, but it could also mean that the expulsion is happening pretty quickly. The nature of the matter will be decisive. With regard to the rule in Section 27 on the expulsion of persons who are manifestly suffering from serious mental disorders, the Christian People's Party has underlined in its comments that there may be situations where it would be best for a person to be taken care of in the country from which he comes. Language, culture and family relationships are some of the factors that can make it right to show him away from the country. These factors will be important to help the person suffering from severe psychiatric disorders. So it's not about a brutal rejection of sick people, it's about human treatment for the sick. This also includes contact with health professionals in the home country before expulsion enters into force. The Christian People’s Party would stress that competent health professionals should assess whether a foreigner needs protection in Norway. This applies even if he does not explicitly seek asylum. If the foreigner comes from a country we do not return asylum seekers to, it will be an argument against expelling him even if he or she does not seek asylum. The amendment to the third paragraph of Section 17 means that children under the age of 18 who themselves have formed a family do not have the right to reunite. However, the child can have it. In each case, an individual assessment shall be made. The Christian People's Party emphasises that individual cases are to be assessed individually, and in many cases this leads to a higher proportion of correct decisions than if one has a standard rule. That's why we've separated layers of the Workers' Party on some points in the election, while we make up a majority together with that party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e821	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e825	I am pleased that the government parties now agree with the proposal to set up a foreign student to deal with all the complaints concerning decisions taken under the Foreign Affairs Act at first instance. I am not going to repeat the argument for forming a foreign student, it has been convincingly done by both the representative Lemmer Ås and the representative Marthinsen. What I wonder, however, is what has caused the turnaround in relation to the last time this theme was up in the Storting, to which the longest Christian Peoples Party could extend, was a separate asylum or refugee subject. So, what is the reason why the Christian People's Party has changed its mind and realized the need for a foreigner's name, with all the tasks that the majority now supports? It was interesting to hear Marthinsen's argument. And it may also be interesting to draw the question further: is it time in the government offices that has caused this change? As far as I have understood it, this government has led somewhat the same argument for the name as the previous government, resigned from the Workers' Party, did.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e834	I have been asked on several occasions in this Chamber what is the reason why the Christian People's Party has changed its position from the past. It's hard for me to go into the argument that's been before. What I can say in concrete terms is that when the Christian People's Party is now going for what is being presented by the Government, it is of course because we think these are good proposals, these are right proposals, these are temporal proposals, and these are proposals that we believe will improve the situation. And of course, if it's interpreted as turning around, it's free to do it. That means that we take a position where what is at the centre is not previous positions, but the consideration of the matter and the content of the matter we are dealing with. If it is perceived negative by someone, then you have to be allowed to do it. I think it's positive, yes, I think you should say it. And I interpret the representative so that he thinks this was a positive development. I can assure you that in the Christian People's Party we are constantly concerned with caring for the people whom we are ever assigned to care for, and therefore it is important for us not to be bound by the past, but to look forward. It is a principle that several parties in this House should follow.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e841	The representative Mathisen provided interesting reasons for two points: One was the reason for rejecting mental illness. He made it like it was because you wanted to be humane and would help them home. But if that's what's behind it, you don't need a ground for expulsion. You can do that very well today, and that is done today. And you have to make contact with health professionals in your home country before sending them away. Yes, but then we have to remember the 48-hour minimum rule after the banishment decision has been dropped. I don't know how much time you get on this, and if you get time for it, why in the world do you want a ban in your pocket before you contact your home country? This help can be very well provided today too, but now you are cutting off the psychologically ill opportunity to get involved and see if they have the basis to apply for a stay here in the country. The second point, which I think is equally strangely justified, concerns family reunification for children without spouses and cohabitants. What Mathisen said was a coherent argument for the Workers' Party's proposal. I almost have to ask if he has read the legal text where it says that: ‘children under 18 years of age without a spouse or cohabitation are entitled to asylum unless there are particular reasons against it. ‘... We in the Workers' Party want an individual assessment of everyone, and we also say in the comment that having a spouse or a partner can be an excellent reason why the child does not belong naturally in Norway with his or her parents, but also in the home country with his or her spouse or partner. But we'll give them the chance to be evaluated, we'll give them the chance to get the individual assessment. But the Christian People's Party is in favour of absolutely nothing, you shouldn't even be judged if you have a spouse or a roommate. But if it doesn't lead to correctness now, I'll recommend the Christian People's Party to turn for 12 hours and join our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e855	The President has doubts as to whether the representative Mr Tmärås was given the time to present proposals in his previous statement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e858	That's probably right. In the amazement of what the government parties are joining in with the Right Party and the Advance Party, I forgot to take up our proposal, and do so.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e863	The representative Ane Sofie Timberås has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e866	It's a familiar tactic that you postulate, and then you argue against the postulate and say that this means my opponent. This is not exactly what the representative, Mr. Tömerås, said. According to the Mathisen representative, who is not called Mathisen, but Marthinsen, we say that these people under the age of 18 have the full opportunity to apply for family reunification in the usual way. There is no doubt about it, but they should not have an automatic right to family reunification. This is to be considered, because with these people and the relationships we're talking about here, it's very often about 12-, 13- and 14-year-olds who make marriages other than what we're used to. Therefore, we do not think that it is a necessary conclusion that persons who are considered to be mature for a marriage should be given the right to follow their parents immediately, with the extended consequence that a spouse may have. Individuals shall receive a search and be assessed in the same way. The representative says that we want to prevent an evaluation. No, far from it, you should not have an automatic right to family reunification. You can apply, and I think you will treat it in a humane way in relation to the rules.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e871	That was again a bit of an explanation, because the representative Marthinsen – it’s not that good when you’re always on first name except this talking chair – says, that’s what the Workers’ Party means! We also say that children under the age of 18 who have a spouse or a partner should have the right to assess whether they can have a family reunion. We do not say that it should be automatic in getting it, but we say that you should have the right to asylum ‘if there are no special reasons against it’, as is stated in the paragraph of the law today. What Marthinsen and the Government have proposed is the text in the vote on page 21, first column, that ‘children under the age of 18 without a spouse or a partner are entitled to asylum if there are no particular reasons against it. ‘If that wording means something other than what is stated in the proposition, and what comes out of the text of the law, nothing better than that. If it really means that although you have a spouse or a partner when you are under 18, you can be entitled to asylum through family reunification if special reasons do not speak against it, you must therefore vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal No. 1, which I took up, which says that ‘children under the age of 18 are entitled to asylum if there are no particular reasons against it. ‘... Of course, we want an individual assessment. And of course, as I said in my previous line, if it is that marriage in the home country is of such a nature that the child naturally belongs there, it is not natural with family reunification. But they say ‘children under the age of 18 without a spouse or a partner’, and I can't understand anything else, either from the statement in the proposition or from the legal text, but that means that you have a spouse or a partner, you don't have the right to asylum automatically. If there is anything else in it, I hope that both the Council of State and the representative can confirm it, because this was a quite exciting turnaround in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e881	There's no point in the matter, it depends on how you read, and through what kind of glasses you see, and what kind of attitude you take in relation to this. Because when you highlight the way the Workers' Party does, you give expression to an automatic method, and that's the automatic method we don't want to accept. We're therefore saying that these people, who have come into a different relationship with their parents through a marriage or cohabitation documented, with the duration mentioned, are in a somewhat different relationship than if they had had their parents as their closest. That is why they should apply for family reunification on their own basis. That's what's in this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e886	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e889	Initially, it has been interesting to define what the centre option implies. As far as I understand it, it's keeping a policy in the opposition and a stick in the opposite position. Otherwise, I would like to mention that I am just coming from a radio debate with representatives from the Anti-racist Centres. It's been a sad performance. These representatives call the law we are now dealing with, a draft law, and otherwise they come with grotesque accusations, among other things. against Stortinget, despite the fact that we know today's law is a liberalisation of a practice that many North people already feel is too liberal. The few restrictions in the law are aimed at ensuring fair practice for those seeking residence in the country, and at silencing those who are unfortunately trying to exploit the system. It is sad, and it is in my opinion a bear service against the immigrants themselves to pretend that Norway is making laws across the Constitution and the Human Rights Convention. In particular, I feel angry with the Norwegian advisers that the immigrants have obtained; they have learned from the first day in Norway that it is unwise to apply for bad comrades. With regard to the proposals we otherwise discuss, I will deal with the issue of my own complaint topic for foreign affairs, and it raises both practical and fundamental questions. Unfortunately, the majority chooses to pay so much attention to some practical aspects of the handling of foreign affairs that important aspects of principle are neglected. The last time this matter was discussed in Stortinget, we went from the Right to both the proposal on the subject of foreigners and the subject of refugees. The material now presented does not change this view, so that we continue to go against both proposals. The majority are concerned that there are many issues, but such practical considerations should not, in our opinion, set aside important principles of the Council of State's responsibility for the decisions and deceive the government's political responsibility towards Stortinget. The Foreign Affairs Act is a pronounced law on powers which gives the Ministry considerable room for discretion. This discretion should be exercised under a clearly defined political responsibility of the Council of State. This is not least important because the decision in a single case may affect many similar cases. The responsible State Council should not be able to waive this responsibility by leaving the cases to an address. But the ambiguities do not stop with the relations of the Council of State and the Government with the Storting. The foreign student shall, according to the majority, be a ‘court-like body’. So here you create a governing body that also has to be a kind of special court. It creates increased ambiguity and unclear responsibilities and, in our opinion, is a poor contribution both to legal certainty and good governance. That, in addition, this new body costs 50 million. kr, does not make matters better, this is money that, in our opinion, could have been used with great advantage to strengthen the ordinary judicial system and the ordinary treatment institutions we have. The proposal for a foreign student should therefore be rejected, and we should continue today's system, which works well, giving clear responsibilities and the necessary political governance. With regard to other aspects of the law we are debating today, I would like to refer to a later article by one of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e909	In recent years, we have experienced a general humanitarianisation of Norwegian foreign legislation, as well as an increased focus on the rights of foreigners in the legal state of Norway. There has been a real change at system level, and the current proposals are a continuation of this trend. The important proposal for an independent appeal body in foreign affairs — the Foreign Office — is a decisive measure to ensure the legal certainty of foreign nationals and to increase the effectiveness of dealing with such matters. Decisions under the Foreign Affairs Act are decisions which have a very large personal impact on the individual. Although asylum matters are in a special position, matters relating to family reunification, expulsion, etc. of fundamental personal importance for the individual human being. The central party therefore wishes to welcome the proposal to establish an independent appeal body for all decisions under the law of the foreigner. The effective legal certainty will be enhanced by the fact that the instance is a court-like, neutral and independent of the department’s authority of instruction. In addition, mention will be important for the general legal opinion of the persons concerned, and this is almost equally important. It can be imagined that individuals with distrust of the judicial system will experience the new system of independent appeals as more reliable than today's system after experience from their respective home countries. The composition of the name, with members of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, legal organisations and humanitarian organisations respectively, as well as a leader with experience in judgment, will ensure the intended neutrality. Members shall be on an annual basis, on a part-time basis. Individual anchors shall in all respects be given the opportunity of personal presence under the heading. In sum, this will do much to ensure balanced and discretionary proper treatment. We also recognise the traditional restrictive line of foreign policy of the Right and Advance Party in the position of the Judicial Committee on this matter. During the work on proposed amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act, we felt that these two parties constituted a restrictive minority float. However, I am surprised by the opposition of the Right Party and the Progressive Party to the proposal on the subject of new foreigners. Their argument that the term creates unbridled lines of responsibility vis-à-vis the ministry and political management is relatively general considerations which will also affect a number of other bodies in the management process and which do not overshadow the fact that the legal certainty of foreigners will be significantly improved. The term makes it easier to ensure equal treatment. It should be assumed that the Right and Advance Party also considered this to be the primary objective of any decision under Norwegian law. Furthermore, it will contribute to increasing the efficiency of appeals in relation to the current system through its design and guidelines. The pressure on the courts will be reduced by fewer cases being raised for them, by the fact that the term becomes a court-like body. Increased efficiency should also be assumed to be an attractive argument for these two parties. Paragraph 27, which extends the grounds for expulsion, has been the subject of extensive discussions within the Committee. The first subparagraph, point (g), shall allow for the expulsion of non-residents with severe psychiatric conditions. I record the problematisation of the proposal, but still choose to vote for it on the basis of the following arguments: Firstly, because it involves natural harmonisation with the existing identical section 57 of the same law, which authorises the expulsion of EEA citizens on the same basis. Secondly, the proposal shall not include persons seeking asylum. Consequently, it seems natural to treat non-residents from the EEA territory as other non-residents at this point. In addition, it must be clarified that the prerequisite for this home must be the establishment by regulation of procedures for the assessment of cases by competent health professionals and the respect of human dignity and the need for treatment. Before any expulsion takes place, contact with health professionals in their home Member State must be established. Statutory rights to lawyers and health professionals are assumed to ensure the safety of such persons. Furthermore, the Government proposes to amend the second paragraph of Section 39 concerning the minimum 48 hours period for the implementation of expulsion decisions. My colleague from the Christian People's Party has explained that, so I don't spend time on it. The amendments in question represent, in sum, a guarantee of the legal certainty of non-residents in Norway, as well as an opening to the exercise of discretion which is assumed to be necessary under the Foreign Affairs Act.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e940	There's been a lot of talk about paragraphs here, so first I want to be a little bit principleal. When we in SV are involved in discussions about asylum and refugee policy, we have an important backbone: as long as there is oppression, injustice, poverty and need, people will flee and seek protection. Never have so many people been on the run as today, and most are on the run in their neighborhoods. Norway does not take seriously its international obligations to accept refugees and asylum seekers. Now the way to get into Norway is slick, and the door where people who seek protection are let out is wide open. So the representative Hernæs had a little right in his considerations about this in his report from the debate he had been in. SV was formerly associated with the central parties in the call for a more humane asylum and refugee policy. And the central government went out on the track and announced the embellishment of asylum and refugee policy. The government received warm support from SV, but both the SV and organisations working on asylum and refugee policy are deeply disappointed, especially today, when the government has proposed and the centre parties joined a number of restrictions. Is there any preparatory work to join the Fortress Europe with the treatment of Schengen II next? We're just asking. The amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act have two objectives: to relieve the Ministry of Individual Matters and to improve the legal certainty of asylum seekers. That'll be a lot of the first. But the changes do not lead to the improvement of legal certainty after what we think. Until then, the contractions are too many and too extensive. Of course, rules are embellishment here, but the overall picture is tightening. We're not alone in saying that. The same is true of a number of organisations with good knowledge of the area. SV will vote in favour of the embellishments and against the intrusions and in two of the paragraphs we agree with the Labour Party. The central issue is the creation of a complaint subject. SV goes in for the creation of a refugee subject, as we did in the previous round. We want a refugee issue that preserves and improves the legal security of asylum seekers, a body with good competence, and that places great emphasis on the aspects of human rights. Protection and protection against persecution in the home country shall not be governed by the political interests of immigration. Governance must be based on protection and in line with the international conventions to which Norway has acceded. A foreign student, whom the majority would like, will easily be drowned in administrative matters and will not have the necessary time to deal with the more serious cases of asylum and refugees. The smaller things we think the department has to deal with. In the proposed section 37 on identification, the majority, in the SV’s opinion, are making very severe restrictions. An opener for the police to be entitled to arrest, carry out house searches or other enforcement measures against asylum seekers on the basis of the general experience of the police with asylum seekers of the same nationality. The individual right to treatment is waived, and is judged on the basis of group membership. The SV will vote against the imposition on asylum seekers of a criminal sanctioned obligation to reveal that they have previously provided incorrect identity. Amnesty points out that it is quite clear that it will conflict with the ban on self-incrimination in criminal law and the European Convention on Human Rights. We propose the creation of a centre of expertise on torture, as Denmark has. It would be a real measure to improve the legal certainty of asylum seekers. Knowledge of torture is important both in the hearing and in subsequent proceedings. Torture experiences can be revived at the first, tough meeting with Norway or effectively displaced, because the torture experiences are obsessed with much guilt and shame, and they may come up again in later stressful situations. We believe that there is not enough competence in torture here in Norway, and that the skills we have are not used well enough. I want to challenge the Minister of Justice to what he thinks about this idea. On behalf of the SV, I am promoting the proposals that have been distributed at the representatives' tables, and I would also like to announce here that we will vote with the Labour Party on their proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e957	Ågot Valle has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e960	The left takes a positive view of most of the changes in the Foreign Affairs Act and the other laws that are being dealt with today. This involves several changes that go in the liberal direction and legislate a liberal practice. However, like the majority of the Committee, the left is critical of several proposed amendments that are going in a restrictive direction. Most of the changes are mainly of a positive nature. By establishing a foreign student, we will have an independent assessment. This is a positive measure, but the Left would stress that this establishment should not lead to a political discharge. The proposal that work and residence permits can now be granted for two and three years rather than earlier only for one year at a time is a clear improvement and will make it easier for many. It is gratifying that the residence permit will no longer automatically lapse after more than two years of continuous residence abroad, and that it will now be sufficient to report a transfer to the People's Register and no longer to the Police. Similarly, it is positive that cohabitants are given the same right to asylum as their spouse and that work permits can now be granted without a specific application, and that the use of expulsions rather than expulsions is open, and that entry bans can be imposed at a rate of less than two years. Although the Left with pleasure joins most of the changes in the Department, it is also right, as the Committee does, to make reservations on some points. The left joins the Committee's critical comments on opening up house surveys to reveal the identity of a foreigner. It is necessary to impose as stringent requirements for investigations under the Foreign Affairs Act as under the Criminal Code. The left is also critical of the proposal that general experience in the field of broadcasts should be given priority in the assessment of the avoidance risk. In the view of the Left, this must not be at the expense of an individual assessment. Like the Committee, the Left believes that particular care should be taken in assessing whether such detention will be a disproportionately strong intervention. The left underlines the need to pay special attention to humanitarian considerations as to whether people suffering from severe psychiatric disorders can be expelled. The left is also concerned that the security provided by the 48-hour rule will be continued through the practice of the administrative law. The left assumes that the Government will provide a liberal interpretation of the legislation to ensure legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e983	For the Workers' Party, it is a pleasure to see the Bondevik government come back again with the proposal for a foreign student, in accordance with the proposal put forward by the Harlem Brundtland government in Ot. pp. No 38 for 1995-96. For the Labour Party, it has always been important to take care of the legal protection of the individual refugee or asylum seeker. That was the background to the proposal in 1996, and we have the same principle view today. The fact that with such a system, we facilitate the working pressure in the department in dealing with individual matters also has a lot to say, but is not the priority of the matter. I am pleased with the developments that have been in the parties that are now represented in the Government. The fact that the Christian People's Party and the Central Party have left their bombastic proposal and their argument for a refugee feeling when they are in government premises is evidence that they are our responsible and no longer pursue populist opposition policy. It is the contents of the matter that matter, said the representative of the Christian People's Party earlier in the debate. Why wasn't the contents of the matter important when they were in opposition, is my question. For us in the Labour Party who then put forward the proposal, it was important to have substance in the matter at that time as well. In other words, the limitation of the plural at the time would have led to an unclear distinction as to whether matters were to be handled by the refugee class or by the Ministry of Justice as the Board of Appeal, and with this proposal one would have omitted the expulsion cases, the family matters and the divorce cases and not given them the same handling and equal treatment. It would have opened up that some matters would have got political decision, while others would have been dealt with by the denominator. This view now clearly leaves these games for the benefit of a foreign student who takes up all the categories. I find that in this case, too, government responsibility has outweighed opposition to a sitting government. I would like to stress that there is not such a responsible party that it should work on difficult matters, matters that so strongly affect the individual. The individual who has come to a foreign country with new customs, new language and different culture needs to be treated to ensure the legal security of the individual, where no one has to question the decisions. A complaint subject for all foreign affairs will ensure individual security, and the principle of equality will be followed. The Labour Party sees it as an objective that all decisions in foreign affairs should be as undisputed as decisions taken in a court of law, and therefore it is the Labour Party's view that a neutral and independent one can best take care of legal certainty in such cases. A neutral, independent, court-like body such as the Board of Appeal is likely to be more able to manage a fair and equal handling in line with the rules of the present system. I also believe that fewer cases will be brought before the courts when we have received a court-like body as an appeal body. I am pleased that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have taken on board the fact that it would be difficult to distinguish between asylum matters and other matters under foreign law, such a distinction would have complicated the relationship between the denominator and the ministry. With today's proposal, one will not get such a borderup, and all parties, both the one seeking a suspension, and not least the powers of government, which may seem equal to handling. This is important in a legal society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e998	I sat down in the office and listened to the debate. I wasn't going to get involved, but I have to say that when I heard the representative, Mr. Tömerås, what kind of legislation was there to allow the police to enter the houses of the people, ran the debate on the weapons law in my mind. When the police are going to be able to enter the houses without notice and see if they have their legal weapon locked in a locker, shouldn't it at least be the same requirement here, that the police should be able to go into the house and see if there are criminals who have entered the country? Shame on you, Tömerås – if I may say so strongly! I'm sorry, President, it should have gone to you. Once I'm here, I have to tell you a little story about how asylum seekers are set up in this country. I don't think everyone is aware of that. The Ministry of Local Affairs is responsible for the establishment of reception facilities. It is administered by the UDI, which treats operators operating as if they are broadcasts from the UDI. Because they're not. They are contractors who are paid according to the price principle by selling places to the UDI. Then they come to the municipalities and they say, "We're UDI's extended arm. If you protest, there will be media exposure! President, are you aware that the municipalities don't even have a right to information? They do not even have the right to deal with the establishment of an asylum recipient in a foreign municipality. It should have been part of this law. When, in an outlying municipality, in a small town or in a small town, an asylum reception is to be established, you should at least be allowed to deal with this in the local government – but no. I will regard this as a modern slave trade. There's big, big money involved. What is going on is creating racism. It is something that destroys the refugees and asylum seekers in this country. And what's more interesting is that the NOAS completely agrees with me on this. That is why I have already written a private proposal to be promoted – it is imminent – that local authorities must have a right to receive treatment of the establishment of asylum-seekers in the municipalities and that they should have a right to information on what is going on. Today, freedom of establishment is available in a municipality. We are all allowed to move from one municipality to another, and it is used in this case. I have to repeat that it creates racism, and that is NOAS agrees with me. It's obvious that when not even a police officer or a loner is being briefed in local communities or small towns, that's something that's totally hacking, President! This is also about information. There is no doubt that setting up an asylum reception with perhaps a few hundred pieces in a dense place where there are a few thousand people is a heavy burden on both social services, health services, school and, of course, the police. So it happens without being obliged to provide information, without informing the elected representatives of the municipality, and without telling the local people what's going on. It should have been considered by the committee and included in the law. But of course, the Ministry of Local Affairs has the opportunity to make regulations so that municipalities can be informed about what is going on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1011	The President will confirm that punishment and end-use should also be addressed to the President – but it should be limited!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1014	It is with satisfaction that I note that the majority is in favour of the creation of a complaint subject in foreign affairs, and that the choice has fallen on a subject which will deal with all complaints concerning decisions under the Foreign Affairs Act taken by the Directorate of Foreign Affairs at first instance. The main reason for the foreign student’s being a better alternative than simply dealing with asylum and related matters is that the same reasons for the removal of asylum cases from the ministry to be dealt with independently also apply to the other complaints. I stress that the denominator will be a court-like body and thus the type of body that is considered best placed to ensure legal certainty in individual cases. When the department is relieved of the individual cases, it will be able to concentrate more on providing an appropriate legal and regulatory system at all times. In other words, the Ministry will be able to put greater emphasis on the actual task of the Department, namely to develop policies in this area. I cannot agree with the claim that this reform contributes to the ambiguity of responsibilities. I'd rather say the opposite. The Ministry will undertake extensive work on establishing the name, including drawing up instructions and proposals for a number of regulatory provisions relating to the new provisions. In this context, it is necessary to consider which humanitarian organisations propose denominators and how many individual organisations should propose. In this context, I have taken note of the Committee's opinion that it should mainly concern organisations dealing with issues related to the area of refugee and asylum. I am also pleased that this is the majority of the other proposals in the motion for a resolution. The changes mean that we get a better and clearer regulation than what we have today. I would particularly like to stress that the legal certainty of foreigners is strengthened not only by the creation of a name, but also by several of the other changes. In this context, I refer to the new rules on competence and procedure to be followed in relation to the provisions of Section 37 on identification. The time frame allows me to limit myself to commenting on one of the paragraphs that do not apply herein, namely Section 37. The new provisions have provided us with a much better tool than we have today for identifying foreigners who want to stay in our country. Although foreigners may have valid reasons to come here without documents showing who they are, there are no protective reasons why they should be able to keep their identity hidden from Norwegian authorities after they have come to the country and are safe here. The new provisions on the obligation to help clarify their identity increase the possibility of individual aliens being registered with the correct identity. Should there be any subsequent reason to believe that the registered identity is not the correct one, the obligation to contribute to a clarification arises again. Specific studies may also be carried out today if the stranger does not help to clarify his identity. However, the new provisions make it clear that this also applies to the examination of the dwelling of the non-resident. In its position, the Judicial Committee states that it considers "as opposed to the Government" ‘the requirement to suspect that the false identity has been provided must be a specific qualified suspicion as strong as that required by the Criminal Procedures Act for other types of house investigations’. That the government should have a different opinion must be due to a misunderstanding. In the proposition, the Ministry writes that the provision in the Constitutional Act § 102 that house surveys may not be carried out ‘without criminal proceedings’, ‘requires probably not as strong suspicion as the legislator has chosen as conditions for, inter alia: search under the Criminal Procedures Act. ‘... However, it is clear from the bill that the Ministry has just chosen to impose as strong a suspicion for house surveys under Section 37 as for criminal proceedings under the Criminal Procedures Act, requiring ‘many suspicions’ under the third paragraph of Section 37. I refer you here to Section 192 of the Criminal Procedures Act. In my opinion, today's decision will mean a great improvement in the procedure in foreign affairs, not least from a point of view of legal certainty. Let me comment briefly on the question of the status of children, which was the subject of a certain exchange of lines earlier in the debate here. The fact that children under the age of 18 who have formed their own family do not have the right to family reunification as suggested by the Government does not mean that they cannot have it. The difference is that they are assessed on an individual basis. As stated by the representative Marthinsen, that is exactly what the Workers' Party wants it to be, it is at the suggestion of the Government. There will be no automatic right to neither family reunification nor derived refugee status, but an individual assessment of applications from these children. Let me also end by saying that the proposal for the possibility of rejecting mentally ill people is an expression of a provision designed to protect people who are unable to care for themselves. That is the purpose of the provision, and that is how it is to be practised.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1053	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1056	There are several things the council had in mind that I could intend to challenge him further, but I'm going to limit myself to the last thing he was in, that with people with mental disorders. As the case-rapporteur in the past pointed out, the Workers' Party is very surprised that a government in which the Christian People's Party is the largest party, and in addition has the Justice Council, can propose to expel foreigners on the basis that they have mental disorders. Often this will be about particularly weak people. Such a view as the proposal foreshadows, goes on human dignity. It may also conflict with the European Convention on Human Rights. The majority of those who have expressed their views on the proposal are critical, and several of the hearing bodies have strongly opposed the proposal. Among other things, the contact committee between immigrants and Norwegian authorities, the so-called KIM, has expressed itself very strongly. Furthermore, the Church Council and the Inter-Church Council have expressed themselves very skeptical, and say, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The proposal that has been promoted understands the advice towards a human vision that is graduated from man’s abilities and facilities’. Nor does the Ministry provide any evidence of the need for a proposal like this. And then the question to the Council of State has to be, doesn't the Council of State have any concerns about going behind the proposal? And further, on what human view does the Government base such a suggestion?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1070	I think parts of this debate have tended to over-dimension the contradictions that exist. Blaming this Government for not caring for mentally ill people falls on its own unreasonableness. To characterize this proposal as a gradation of people based on abilities and facilities, I would characterize it the same way. This is a provision that allows the authorities to take care of people who cannot take care of themselves, based on professional judgement. This is not a provision to be used in general to expel people with mental disorders. The objective is precisely to return to the country of origin as soon as possible in cases where it is in the best interests of those who have to be expelled under this provision. That's how it's supposed to be understood, and that's how it's supposed to be practiced.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1078	We too have been very sceptical, and are going to vote against this proposal that the Council of State now referred to. I can promise that we will follow the practice with the argus eyes. I invited the Minister of Justice to comment on the proposal we have on centres of expertise on the effects of torture. Now he didn't, and I give him another chance. We see this as an important part of improving legal certainty. In our opinion, a human asylum and refugee policy requires that there is sufficient competence for torture – both physical, mental and sexual torture – and that it is used, and used systematically. As far as we know, we have the necessary expertise. One of them is Jørgen Cohn. He lives in Tromsø and is a professor. He can tell us that he repeatedly feels that his expert report is being set aside. He tells quite strongly, I think, that when he goes through these investigations and listens to what asylum seekers have to tell, he gets sick. It's that strong. Then he puts it aside, takes it up again, writes the report and then gets nauseated – and then he feels that he is not believed. It's pretty strong. The result is, as we have seen in several cases, that families or individuals are being sent out, perhaps to another torture. We believe, as I also said in our speech, that knowledge of torture is important to bring with it both in questioning and in subsequent proceedings, because it can manifest itself differently from person to person in interrogation situations and also later, when the exposed ones get strong experiences. I would like to hear what the Minister of Justice thinks about such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1091	Let me say that I agree with Mr Ågot Valle that it is important for us in Norwegian society to have competence on the effects of torture and other stresses that refugees and asylum seekers coming to Norway have been exposed, not least through war and war-like conditions. It is important to have such a competence, and it is important to develop the competences, both in the treatment system and in the services and services provided by both municipalities and other agencies. Having said that, I must admit that it is the first time I meet the concrete proposal for such a centre of competence, as the representative Ågot Valle now mentions. I don't think it's right to take a position on this right now, but I see it so that an assessment of it can take place in a different context than in connection with this special legal process. If I have to be so free, it might be appropriate that that proposal was sent.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1098	It was obvious that the Council of State was provoked by the line that I had in place, with regard to people with mental disorders, and that one drew this government's treatment of them in doubt. It could probably also form the basis for a debate. But what strikes me after the answer is that there must be no difference between the person who has mental illness and the Norwegian citizen, or whether he is at the entrance to Norway. These are often people who are in such a state and a constitution that they have difficulties in coming forward with the message of a legitimate need for protection. Then comes another aspect -- we send people back so quickly. How can we be sure what we're sending them back to? Then we're back on it with human dignity, the need and the right that people have to be treated for that kind of suffering. Finally, I would also like to recall the strong statements that I referred to, both from the Council of Churches and the Council of Inter-Church. It's something that should count for a government where the Christian People's Party is the dominant party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1107	Let me say that the authorities will assess whether a foreigner needs protection in Norway even if he does not explicitly seek asylum. I refer to the third paragraph of Section 27 where it is stated that it is sufficient that the non-resident provides information “which indicates that the protection rules in the first paragraph of Section 15 will apply”. Furthermore, the provision referred to here is linked to an assessment of competent health professionals. This means that there should be a concrete professional assessment and that the purpose of the provision is to take care of the person concerned, because he is unable to care for himself because of his situation. With these leaderships, I believe that this is a provision that is not only sound, but actually also proper. But I allow myself to assume that it will be in very few cases it will be relevant to use this provision. As I said, it should be used for the clear purpose that I have expressed here, namely to care for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1114	The cord shift is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1117	The majority's proposal for a foreign student solves few problems, while creating new and unlucky ambiguity on several points. The proceedings create confusion about the responsibilities of the Government and the Council of State towards Stortinget. At the same time, the majority say that the foreign student must be a ‘court-like body’. Only the concept itself should get the alarm clocks to call and show which grey zone you're deliberately entering here. A good rule of thumb should be that administrative matters should be dealt with by administrative bodies with normal proceedings and normal responsibilities, while legal proceedings should be dealt with by ordinary courts. More and more specialised specialised courts are unlucky and not a good contribution to the whole and coherence of our justice, and should therefore be avoided in the opinion of the Right. It doesn't get any better that we're talking here about a court-like body that's supposed to act like a kind of special court. The proposal for amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act provides otherwise several useful clarifications and clarifications supported by the Right. This applies, inter alia, to: the possibility of using expulsion to persons on short-term visits to Norway. In such cases, it would be more natural to use expulsion than expulsion. The right also supports the possibility of deporting persons sentenced to protection in other countries. The important thing should be that there is hedged and not where it has happened. The government proposes a separate institution for people being imprisoned because there is doubt about their identity. This institution shall carry out tasks which differ from the prison otherwise, on important points, and the Right therefore also supports this proposal. The same applies to the legalisation of an obligation on non-residents to help clarify their own identity. We see in several contexts that people who have received a final rejection of their application for a stay do not help to leave the country, but on the contrary use the 48-hour deadline currently in force to avoid the decision. It may not be reasonable to maintain such a period for persons residing illegally in the country. That period should therefore be removed and it should also be possible to detain persons in order to ensure that they are produced for the representation of the home Member State in order to obtain the necessary travel documents where appropriate. On the other hand, the right does not support the proposals for decoration in the family reunification criteria. There is poor reason to change the legislation that it has not been practiced as it should. The right hand side is also fixed at its position, as we are, among other things. put forward a proposal in the context of the communication on integration, that there should be an absolute requirement for family reunion entertainment, and we therefore oppose the proposal for the decoration of those provisions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1139	I will make some comments on a matter that is not directly affected in the committee position, but which is related to the practice of law and regulation. I'm thinking about the treatment period for asylum applications. It is apparent from the media today that there are 4,500 asylum seekers and their family members awaiting treatment of their asylum application. Most of them are waiting for first instance treatment. The central parties were strongly critical in the opposition to the long period of proceedings and the resulting waiting period in the reception of asylum. Under the current government, the situation has deteriorated. Has the Government prepared poorly for an increase in the number of asylum seekers and for changes to the legislation that would result? Long stay in asylum recipients has a cost page that is important enough, i.e.: there are resources that could have been used in other areas. But I also want to point to the human dimension. The length of the procedure is an additional burden for those in receipt of asylum. It's limited what it can facilitate by activity. In particular, I am concerned with situations where there are families and children in the picture. The entire asylum seeker process until possible settlement in a municipality cannot be attributed to the responsibility of only one department, but much lies within the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. However, it is clear that, for example: The first instance treatment in the Directorate for Foreign Affairs has been increased by two months since 1997. Most of the time, as it is described, lies the matter and waits for a free case handler without anything happening to the application. It could be interesting to challenge the effective Minister of Justice and ask if it would lead to the correctness of the Government and the UDI considering reversing the entire asylum procedure and what it might consist of. Today's proceedings are not satisfactory, and the Labour Party believes that improvements need to be accelerated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1146	I can confirm that we, on the part of the Government, take seriously the increased length of proceedings to which the representative Bjørnstad refers and which is mainly due to the increased influx of refugees and asylum seekers. The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Local Affairs assesses measures that can make routines more efficient and contribute to faster treatment, where one looks at bottlenecks, where one looks at how one can reduce the unproductive time to which the representative of Bjørnstad referred. There are also questions in this context about achieving the objective we have of exempting the police from the task of questioning, which is also a major part of the overall procedure. We will come back to concrete measures when this has been properly assessed, but I can therefore confirm that these are issues that we are most seriously looking at and that we want to do something about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1153	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 349]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1161	The President will take note of the fact that the time set by the Rules of Procedure is soon over. However, the President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map has been completed and will be deemed to have been adopted. The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-3.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1212	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1219	The legislative decision will be sent to the Saving Decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1226	In the course of the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Odd Eriksen on behalf of the Labour Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 2-4, by Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing proposal No. 5, by Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No. 6, by Sverre J. Hoddevik on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 7 and 8, by Karin Andersen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 9, by Olaf Gedrem on behalf of the Municipal Committee Proposal No. 1-8 is included in the setting, while proposal No. 9 is distributed in the hall. The President first adopts the proposal No. 1 and 7. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with proposals to ensure the legal right to influence of the trusted resident representatives. ‘... Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to design a transitional arrangement for the increase in rent for persons who, in the event of a change in the law, occupy dwellings covered by Chapter II of the Husleiegesetz [[‘the strict regulation’]] Proposal No. 1 and 7 shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Commercial Order. The President will propose that the remaining minority proposals, the smallest fractions first, and then the setting be contested. But proposal No. 9 will be plotted with the setting. – No objections have been received, and this is what will be done. First, there will be a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1288	Proposal No. 6 from the right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1330	Proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1371	Proposal No. 2, 3 and 4, from the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1970	The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e1990	This is where the Progress Party and the Right will notify you that they will go counter-clockwise.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e2108	The second sentence of the fifth paragraph is preceded by a proposal, paragraph. 9. from the Committee, presented by Mr Gedrem. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e2129	The second sentence of the fifth paragraph of the Committee's recommendation shall be replaced by the proposal of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e2174	This is where the Progress Party will notify you that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e2432	Here the Progress Party has notified that they will vote against the third sentence of the first paragraph. It's going to be gravitational over this point first.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e2445	So the remainder of the joint and the sentence in section 9-8 is going to be confused.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e2589	Here the Socialist Left Party has warned that they will go against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e2708	This is where the Progress Party will notify you that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e2834	In the case of § 13-3, second paragraph, no. 1, the Progress Party goes against § 273 new No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e2983	When applicable to No. 3, the Socialist Left Party opposes the repeal of § 14, 15, 16 and 17.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e2992	The recommendation from the Committee to the other paragraphs of paragraph 1 is then rejected. 3 and No 4 up to and including Nos. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3000	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3007	The legislative decision will be sent to the Saving Decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3013	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Ane Sofie Timberås on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 2, by Jan Simonsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 3, by Jan Simonsen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 4 and 5, from Ågot Valle on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The President first adopts proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘In order to improve the legal certainty of asylum seekers, the Stortinget Government asks the Government to consider establishing a centre of expertise on the effects of torture, as well as on the treatment of trauma and injury caused by torture. ‘... This proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3058	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 24 June 1988 No 64 on the access of non-residents to the kingdom and their residence here is amended as follows: the third paragraph of Section 5 is replaced by the following: If it is not specified directly by law, the King shall determine the duties and powers of the various public bodies under the law. ‘... The progress party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it. The proposal of the Socialist Left Party will be put to the vote first, then the recommendation of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3149	The progress party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3198	The party of progress has notified that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3224	The third paragraph of Section 17 contains an aberrant proposal, i.e. no. 1, from the Workers' Party. The right has notice that they are opposed to both the proposal and the recommendation of the committee. The recommendation from the Committee shall be rejected for the purposes of the second paragraph of Section 17.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3235	In the case of the third paragraph of Section 17, the President will first allow the recommendation of the Committee to be put to the vote and, if the recommendation of the Committee falls, the proposal of the Labour Party shall be put to the vote. – No objections have been received, and this is what will be done. The recommendation from the Committee to the third paragraph of Section 17 shall be rejected. The Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Socialist Left Party have warned that they will go against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3250	A vote will be taken on the motion by the Working Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 24 June 1988 No 64 on the access of foreigners to the kingdom and their residence here, the third paragraph of Section 17 shall be replaced by the following: ‘... The President has understood that the Socialist Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3260	Honored President! An explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3267	Mr Sofie Mermås has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3270	I would, of course, recommend that the representatives of the Labour Party vote in favour of our own proposal, but that was not why I asked for the floor. I just want to clarify to those who were a little confused that we took the setting up first and let it fall, before we took up the proposal. Of course, the usual thing is to take up the proposal first, and then it falls, and then we go to the setting. But here, unfortunately, there has been a technical defect when we wrote the setting. So despite the fact that the Workers' Party was the largest fraction and our proposal was to be part of the vote, it was promoted as a proposal instead. Now I hear the president says it's only SV that recommends his group to vote in favour of the proposal. It amazes me, because the proposal for the Workers' Party is identical to the proposal, except for the proposal that was put to the vote and that has now fallen. So this means that if the government parties now vote against the Workers' Party's proposal, it will be the old legal text that gets a majority, and that's not what the proposition promoted. It was...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3275	The President will recall that there was an explanation of the voice Ane Tömerås asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3278	Yes, it was – and that explanation is that if this proposal from the Workers' Party falls, it is the old legal text that will apply, and that is not what is recommended in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3283	Ane Tömerås has been given a chance to give an explanation of the voice. We're going to keep up the voting. A vote will be taken on the motion by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3415	The party of progress has warned that they are heading towards the lower-case letter e, while the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party are heading towards the lower-case letter g. It's going to be a little bit over the lower case of e.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3428	So we're going to have a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3438	The other letters in the first paragraph of Section 27 and the second paragraph are rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3517	The Progress Party and the Right have warned that they're going to the third term, the second sentence. And then we're going to add up this point right over here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3530	The other paragraphs and sentences of Section 29 are then worded.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3673	The Socialist Left Party has warned that they go against § 37, first and third paragraphs, § 37, second paragraph, and § 37, paragraph 37, paragraph (b). These paragraphs and joints are the first to be argued over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3684	The other sections of § 37 and 37a are contested.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3798	The Progress Party and the Right have warned that they are going against it. But before we go to voting on the recommendation, the President will vote on proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party, to § 38 and § 41. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3853	So it's going to be over the recommendation. So the step-by-step and the right-hand side have a warning that they're going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3868	Here the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3939	The party of progress and the right goes towards the ninth and tenth terms, while the Socialist Left Party goes towards the second term, the fourth paragraph, the second and third sentences, and the fifth paragraph, the second sentence. Paragraph 41, second paragraph, second and third sentences and the fifth paragraph, second sentence are first contested;
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3950	The other sections and the sentences of Section 41 are then contested from the first to the eighth paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e3958	So it's going to be over the 41st and 10th paragraphs. This is where the Progress Party and the Right will notify you that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e4223	There are two different proposals, proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, to the first paragraph, and proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Right, to the fifth paragraph, second sentence. Paragraph 58, first paragraph, first paragraph - alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 24 June 1988 No 64 on the admission of non-residents to the State and their residence here, the first paragraph of Section 58 shall be replaced by the following:Foreigners covered by the EEA Agreement may be expelled where public policy, public security or public health so warrants. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e4241	Paragraph 58, fifth paragraph, second sentence – alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 24 June 1988 No 64 on the access of foreigners to the kingdom and their residence here, the second sentence of the fifth paragraph of Section 58 shall be replaced by the following:The prohibition on entry may be made permanent or limited in time, but not for a period of less than two years. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e4257	So the rest of the joints and the sentences of Section 58 are getting wetter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e4311	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e4318	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04-lower.ana.ud2401e4327	There is no record available.
