ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e125	Representatives of May Britt Vihovde, Annelise Höegh, Jørgen Kosmo and Per Ove Width, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the Nordic region: Arvid Falch For the Rogaland State: Bent Höie For Telemark County: Gunn Marit Helgesen
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e156	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e161	I allow myself to propose Per Ove width.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e166	Per Ove Width is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Width is unanimously elected President of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e178	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3297]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e192	It is a unanimous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs that is pleased to note that the Riksrevision has gone through this large, comprehensive project. The revision of the original F-16 programme has now been completed, although a final final settlement remains. The Committee would stress the importance and benefit of the fact that the National Audit Office, in cooperation with other European National Audit Offices, has carried out this review of the various parts of the F-16 programme. This has been important for the National Audit Office, and the competences, experience and conclusions that one here has drawn are important not least for the competence of the Defence Agency when it comes to making similar purchases in the future. The Committee notes that the purpose of the original F-16 programme was very good, but notes further that, as regards the follow-up to the Mid-Life Update programme, it has not been possible to carry out an equally thorough review as the Riksaudition has not been given access to original contract data, and that the possibility of transparency has been restricted. The Committee shares the Riksrevision's view that the lack of transparency of the main contractor in this part of the programme has made a complete audit difficult, and the Committee would stress that future contracts require a better search for the transparency of the audit, as the purpose of such reports is to make use of the experience gained in future contracts. The Committee has also noted that the expected termination and finalisation of the original F-16 contracts will take place during January 1999, that the contracts relating to the additional and replacement purchases are expected before the turn of the century, and that the final establishment of the update programme, Mid-Life Update, is expected during the period 2002-2005. The Committee shares the Riksrevision’s assessment that some aspects of the programme under the repurchase agreement have not worked on the basis of the assumption that Norway, as a nation, was the worst in terms of the repurchase agreement. From the Norwegian side, we have a repurchase of 44.8 pst., while the total average for the other countries is 58.8 pst. It is therefore, when looking at it afterwards, reason to assume, as the Riksaudition points out, that by selecting three production lines for the production of the F-16 aircraft, a more expensive solution was chosen than one could have done by choosing one production line. The Committee also shares the Riksrevision's view that it is not good that 14 years should elapse between the final delivery of aeroplanes until the final contracts have been concluded. It is clear that this is part of making financial management more difficult, and not least the defence audit. The Committee would therefore strongly stress that the experience gained by the Defence, the National Audit Office and other European National Audit Offices in the audit of this entire project must be taken into account when entering into similar future projects and contracts, either under the auspices of the Defence Agency or under the direction of other State bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e216	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3297]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e230	Since 1993, the Riksrevisions have on several occasions reported failures in the State Pension Fund's control procedures relating to the calculation and payment of pensions, and in Innst. S. No 82 for 1997-98, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee stated that ‘these aspects cannot continue without the quality of the State Council responsible’. The National Audit Office’s study, which we are examining today, shows that the performance trend of the State Pension Fund in the period from 1994 to other tertiary years 1998 has not been positive. This applies both to the payment of new pensions at the right time and to the share of errors in the procedure. The study shows that the delay in the payment of pensions is due to a combination of too long treatment periods in the SPK and late retirement requirements. Many demands are sent too late, despite the fact that the SPK operates a comprehensive information activity to increase the number of applications and pension messages submitted in time. The long procedure period in the SPK is mainly due to the fact that the cases remain long before the proceedings are initiated. The Committee has noted that there is disagreement between the Ministry and the National Audit Office as to the date from which the procedure starts. In the opinion of the Committee, it is natural to count the time between the date of receipt of the case and the date of its adoption. The estimated error rate of the SPK in the proceedings in 1997 was 6.5. That's 2.5 pst. higher than the objective. Most of the errors occur in the application procedure in the SPK, which may be linked to high labour pressure and high staff penetrations. The Committee has noted that the SPK has implemented a significant modernisation of its staff management and will stress the importance of the recruitment and retention of properly qualified personnel by the SPK. The Committee has also noted that the SPC is implementing a development project with a view to improving its performance, but does not consider it satisfactory that the performance improvements have been only short-term. The main objective of the State occupational pension scheme is to provide the country’s employees with a safe pensioner’s life, together with benefits from popular security. The Committee would stress that delayed payments could create both uncertainty and financial problems for them in the absence of expected income for several months. In the light of the critical aspects arising from the repeated observations of the National Audit Office, as well as the previous proceedings of the Storting and the clear references to these matters, the Committee of the Governments calls for a thorough review of the facts referred to and for the Storting to be briefed in an appropriate form on the outcome as soon as possible. In addition, the Committee of the Regions is called upon to adopt such a decision: ‘Document No. 3:4 [[1998-99]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e254	Of course, I agree with what the rapporteur has said, and with the clarification that one of the departments, the Council of State and the Government must follow up the critical circumstances. On behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to mention one thing that we consider very important, and that is the information and service that the Statens Pensionkasse should initially provide. We have received a number of requests that this is not fully provided, and at least I would ask the Council of State to take it further that she should review the procedures, because it should not be that when people contact the State Pension Fund, they are always told to contact them in writing. There are some older people here, and there might be some that aren't so good to put in writing. I therefore believe that it must be a goal for a government that has agreed to have greater transparency in the administration and a better service, that it provides opportunities for telephone contact with the State Pension Fund to be able to present orally the objections and questions that you may have, whether they relate to the size of the pension or to changes in it, and that this may lead to their being given a service that is in line with what I am convinced that a unanimous collapse will result.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e261	I think we can all now conclude that the department agrees that the results of the Pension Fund are not good enough, either in relation to the timely payment or the quality of the pension calculation, but of the case documents I have, that the Department states that the facts available do not provide the basis for drawing as serious and unilateral conclusions as the Riksaudition makes. If that's right, as I say. a. has information that the new system was already in place while cartels were being carried out and investigations of the old system, the Ministry is right that the factual basis for the Riksrevision criticism is not the basis for the unilateral negative criticism. You might also be able to ask questions about the use of resources. I hope, at least, that the department will be able to find out on later occasions when it is explained the development of the Pension Fund, whether this was actually the relationship, as was pointed out by the Department.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e268	The Committee has provided that the Government must carry out a thorough review of the facts identified as soon as possible and that, in an appropriate form, the Grand Duchy is presented with the result. It is clear that we are not only interested in a review and a description of the outcome of this review, but that we are also interested in getting a plan for correcting these issues, as pointed out in this report. We are concerned about this because through the State Pension Fund, we are going to be involved in ensuring the rights of pensioners in relation to the payments they make through a long professional life. It was supposed to be missing. The reason why we emphasize so strongly that we now have to have results is that this is a repetition. There is one thing that has been pointed out by the National Audit Office time and time again – and that has in itself been commented on by Stortinget – needs to be taken care of. This applies to relationships that we have also had under governments other than those that are now sitting. I think it's obvious that the general data problems that have been in the state have also had to affect the State Pension Fund, and that skills have been needed to meet the challenges facing the development of new computer systems. But it can't be an excuse that can be repeated year after year. Now you have to put in the resources that are necessary to enable those who have acquired their rights in the Pension Fund to have their rights fulfilled, so that they do not have to live in uncertainty as to whether the payment they receive is correct or incorrect. I would recommend as strongly as I can to the Council of State that she return as soon as possible to the Stortinget, not only with a review of the results, but also with a plan for how to correct this, so that this repeater from the Riksrevision and from the Stortinget side can stop being a repeater, and that we can get a solution that everyone can be satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e281	Like the representatives who have spoken, I just want to say that the Department and the State Pension Fund agree with the Committee that delays in pension payments are not satisfactory for those affected. However, I would like to say that the pension fund per person. Today, the performance management system has changed, and that they follow very closely all pension matters – if we take that bit first. With the background of this, they actually have per. today has expired with a guarantee of rights. If applications for a pension come in time, i.e. three months before the pension is due, the Pension Fund guarantees payment in good time. In April, which was the first guarantee month of this year, the Pension Fund reached 98 p.m. the circumstances in which payment of the pension can be made in due time. It's a joyous progress, but there's still some other things that I'm not going to get into. With regard to the comments from the Committee on the follow-up of the Ministry through a thorough review, I would like to confirm that it will be done by the Ministry. We're going to look at both organization and framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e288	No more have asked for the floor on case No.3. [[Food, see page 3297]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e302	The Constitutional Act is primarily designed to regulate traditional foundations and presupposes that a foundation is independent. Traditional foundations typically have a high basic capital and do not depend on income from their own operations or on current appropriations. Developments have progressed towards the use of formation as an organisational form when it is intended to carry out an activity, such as: museum operations or research in a discipline. During the last 20 years, the State has established a number of foundations, either through the conversion of existing state establishments into foundations, or through the provision of state capital to new establishments, organised as foundations. The foundations are usually institutions that meet important social needs on an independent basis, without any economic gain as a goal. The foundations are responsible for their own finances and have a separate responsibility for employers. But for many of them state grants or state purchases of services are crucial for day-to-day operations. In St.meld. No 35 for 1991-1992 On the government's administrative and staff policies, it was stated that the form of formation should not be used when the State has governance interests of a substantive nature or is prepared to assume long-term financial responsibility for the activity. This means that the form of formation should not be chosen where the tasks are of the exercise of authority, the disposal of instruments or the provision of services where the scope and quality of the service are the responsibility of the State. The starting point of the National Audit Office’s examination of the State’s relationship with foundations was a possible conflict between the country’s need to influence or manage the activities of the foundations in question and the requirements of the Constitution for autonomy, focusing on the following issues: 1st@item: inlistbox To what extent and in what way does the state govern foundations?2. Is the state governance of foundations so extensive that it can be said to be contrary to the Constitutional Law that questions can be asked about whether the foundations are real?3. Is the form of formation appropriate in the light of government governance needs and objectives in this area? The study includes 18 foundations, which are divided into seven departments. They are characterised by their being key actors in areas of State interest and are economically dependent on state grants or government procurement. The study shows that foundations are used in areas where government has governance interests, and that the country's main governance instruments are to attach conditions to grants and purchases of services, appoint board members and design and amend the statutes. It also shows that 16 of the 18 foundations under investigation are economically dependent on the state. For three of the foundations, questions may be asked about whether the foundations are real. Most departments of the study perceive the form of formation as an appropriate form of organisation, which works well in practice. However, although the use of the form of formation may be appropriate and address some problems for the State, practice in many cases runs counter to overall management policy objectives. The study also shows that awareness of the limitations of the form of formation on the administration of departments varies among the different departments. It is important that adverse aspects of current practices are changed and that responsibilities in this area be clarified. The Committee assumes that the Ministry of Labour and Administration will keep up-to-date with regard to the use of foundations by the administration and that the Ministry will follow its guidance responsibility with regard to the use of foundations, and that the rules of the State Staff Manual will also be followed with regard to directors formed on the basis of the Constitution. The Committee calls for a dialogue to be established between the Ministry of Labour and Administration and the departments of trade which use the form of formation by other means than provided for, with a view to finding alternative solutions in cases where the practice in question is inappropriate. In this context, the Committee calls for the Stortinge to be properly briefed on these matters. In addition, the Committee of the Regions is called upon to adopt such a decision: ‘Document No. 3:6 [[1998-99]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e337	There are many serious issues that are pointed out in this case from the Riksrevision. I therefore feel that I need to spend some time in addition to the case rapporteur, not least because this matter has received too little attention until now. The seriousness is underlined by the fact that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee wishes to be informed of further developments in this matter. In my view, it is most serious that the use of state foundations is not in line with the Constitutional Act in terms of the extent and manner in which the state governs the foundations. The case rapporteur was at St.meld. No 35 for 1991-92, and it states that "it is particularly important that the form of association and organisation underlines the independence of the institution". It is underlined that ‘the strength of the form of formation is governance independence’. The Constitutional Act presupposes that a foundation is independent. The governing body of a foundation shall be the governing body of the foundation and may not be added to an external body. Independence is a criterion that the foundation is considered to be real. Of the 18 foundations examined, 15 are a continuation of activities that have previously been conducted in another form of organisation, while three represent new activities. The National Audit Office's investigation shows that the country's main governing agent in relation to foundations is to attach conditions to grants and purchases of services, appoint members of the board and design and amend the statutes, i.e. the transformation authority. According to Section 37 of the Constitutional Act, there are clear limitations in the founding authority. Governance is another tool that the State can use. In the State Staff Manual, there are provisions limiting the law, for example: to appoint officials and officials of the Governing Boards and Councils. However, in the Management Board of the Transport Economic Institute, the Ministry of Transport Councils of the Ministry of Transport, while the Ministry is TØI's largest contracting entity. NORAD and the Oil Directorate are represented on the board of Petrad with their directors, and NORAD and the Oil Directorate are the main financial contributors to PETRAD. These facts show that the legislation is not being complied with. The economic dependence of a foundation on state resources also provides the State with an instrument to manage its activities, including: by setting conditions for grants and purchases of services. And throughout it is that the vast majority of foundations in this study depend on the state contributing financially. 16 out of 18 foundations are dependent on government grants or commissions. The Foundation Act is not designed to regulate this. If money from the State constitutes a substantial part of the Foundation's revenue, while at the same time appointing the Board of Directors, and the business is part of public plans, such as: governed by regulations, questions may be asked as to whether the criterion of autonomy laid down in the Constitutional Law has been fulfilled. The NRS, UNIS and PETRAD foundations may also be questioned as to whether the foundations are real. Most departments of the study perceive the form of formation as an appropriate form of organisation that works well in practice, including: because it gives greater freedom in terms of pay and staff. Professional independence is also highlighted as an important advantage. Although the use of the form of formation solves some problems for the state, it also creates new problems because the form of formation is not intended to operate under government control. The close ties of the State with these foundations also raise questions as to how far the responsibility of the State extends. The question of the liability of the State is particularly relevant for those cases where questions can be asked about whether the formation is real. These are very serious references, and it surprises me that these relationships have not received more attention from the press, or more in principle from the Government. It is tempting to say that the Stortinge as a legislator here is being kept a little too fooled by the ministry, for some must have clearly known that practice was not in line with the Constitution. In the correspondence between the Ministry and the National Audit Office, the Ministry promises to look into this, and that is good. But I doubt whether that is enough, and therefore I am pleased that the committee unanimously asks to be informed about the time of the matter. I expect that the department has also realized that we are serious about this matter, and I also take the view that the breaches of the rules are quickly corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e358	It was the representative of Husøy who made me ask for the floor, because when she made a statement that the Stortinget was held ‘too fool’ in this case, and said that the setting contained very serious comments and objections, it must necessarily mean that the former workers' party councils and workers' party governments are also affected by this criticism. I will probably reserve myself against the description given, and the statement that the Stortinget has been kept ‘too silly’, and just stress that on the right hand side we focus on three of the comments from the Committee: the first is that the Ministry must keep up to date on the use of foundations, the second is that it must clarify the responsibilities underlying this, and the last, but not least, that the Stortinget must be informed of the progress of the matter. But to draw the conclusion that this means that Stortinget was kept ‘too fool’, I strongly object to that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e365	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3297]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e379	The case concerns the National Audit Office’s investigation of the management of the road authorities in five selected toll projects, and this concerns the Sunnfjord tunnel, the Drammen area, the Oslo package, the E6 East in the Trondheim area and the Trondheim ring. There is now an increasing number of important road, bridge and tunnel projects being realised via tolls, as a sub-financing to meet the needs of development at an earlier stage than if it were to happen only directly through government appropriations. The study carried out shows that major changes have been made to projects in relation to financing and development plans after the Stortingen has dealt with the projects. The estimates, for example: in the Trondheim area was too optimistic, as indicated in the report. The individual toll companies are established as AS and therefore cannot be instructed by the public without being particularly marked in the instruments of incorporation. This is a sufficient basis for one to take into account in future projects. The road office is required to follow in the actions of the toll companies, but does not have the necessary steering options. However, as rapporteur of the case, I do not find it possible to recommend the proposals of the Progress Party on the investigation and assessment of the premises, based on the fact that the toll company will have a different organisation and be based on an independent financial responsibility. The study refers, inter alia, to: that the project related to the Sunnfjord tunnel has not had a good financial management but has resulted in a loss of approximately $14 million. kr. The Ministry of Transport has not presented an overall evaluation of road projects financed by tolls. Of the projects concerned, the follow-up to the results is of varying degrees, as shown in the report. The Ministry of Transport believes that the National Audit Office's report does not clearly distinguish between what has been submitted to the Stortinget and what is politically clear, and what is a real management problem in the toll companies. For example, the extension of toll collection at E18 in Lier, which is a clear, conscious political choice, has always been submitted to the Stortinge for decision. The size has thus decided for itself the development of this project. Today, toll companies are checked by sending annual reports with accounts to the Ministry and the Directorate of Roads. Changes to these control procedures are continuously assessed, including: in the light of the review carried out by the National Audit Office, the Ministry of Transport reports. The Committee points out that when authorising new toll projects, these authorisations are based on some clear assumptions, including: the amount of the levy and the length of the recovery period. Of course, changes in these terms are not indifferent. The Committee points out that the Ministry of Transport has the overall responsibility and therefore needs to build up good enough procedures for the control of individual installations in terms of economics, propulsion and technical solutions and, in consultation with the National Audit Office's recommendation, carry out evaluation of the projects, in view of the fact that this could provide a better basis for assessing the overall scheme itself, and also in view of the fact that the organisational form can be optimised as far as possible. On the basis of this, I would recommend the majority's proposal for a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e402	In fact, on the part of the Progress Party, we interpret the review carried out by the Riksrevision of these five different projects as a confirmation of what we have argued for a long time, namely that we should reorganise the toll projects. The assessment we have received from what the Riksrevision has referred to here provides a basis for that. The reason why we believe it from the Progress Party is that all these fissures that have now been created for bombings, and all the projects to be financed by taxpayers and those who use these projects, have resulted in them becoming a dairy cow. It has also made this a sleep cushion for the authorities behind these companies. One still has exceedances, and one cannot refer to any project that has had a sustainable planning, expansion and operation that is in line with what was the starting point. It may seem that one has the gel that, in the case of such projects, it is easier to obtain forgiveness for the sins that you have committed, in retrospect, than to obtain prior authorisation. There is something the Storting has repeatedly pointed out about the review of various toll projects, at the latest at the hearing we had on North Hordlandsbrua. The conclusions and what came on the table there are evidence that the planning system has been too bad. With regard to the operation, which has been carried out by the toll companies, they have received state guarantees for their loans, which has meant that the builder and the operator have not done their job in full. That is why, from the Progress Party, we believe that at least we should ask the Government to investigate and assess another organisation of the toll projects, based on the fact that toll companies have an autonomous economy and an autonomous financial responsibility for the tasks they carry out. Then we will have toll companies that take full and complete financial responsibility for both forecasts, calculations, expansion and operations resulting from these projects. In this area, we have to think about something new. And once again, in this area, it is the Progress Party that is going on its way by putting this on the agenda. We see that something has to be done. Norwegian drivers and users are tired of being milked in terms of toll financing and other national measures, when the state does not take full responsibility and spends more money on traffic management, on the important exit and exit years we are to have, especially in the central regions. On that basis, I would like to promote the minority proposals of the Advance Party, which are: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and assess another organisation of toll projects based on its own financial responsibility for the toll company.’ If the proposal is not adopted today, I dare to say that when we round a new millennium and get into its political reality, these assessments are going to be made, and out in the new millennium – when there has been a time – I am convinced that the slippery government will come to realize that this is perhaps the way to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e420	Vidar Kleppe has drawn up the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e423	I think – of course – it makes sense that the Riksrevision has now gone through these toll projects that we are talking about today, both because, of course, I believe in principle that we must have good control and follow-up when we demand funds from the citizens, and also because, as most people know, toll collection will often be a good way to realise the necessary investments. I believe that this – and related – funding will be an important part of road policy in the future, and it is therefore essential that we have good control and management with such development, so that we are sure that resources are used as best as possible. I also believe that the attention and review from the National Audit Office will help to keep a clear focus on the effectiveness of the toll collection. When it comes to state control and control of the toll project, I would nevertheless point to a relationship that I may have previously missed a little in the public debate on these issues. A toll scheme is a state/local partnership, each of which has a clearly defined role to play. In this context, local authorities are responsible, inter alia, for: to find an appropriate organisation of the toll collection. The normal thing is for a limited liability company to be set up to handle this collection. Should such companies be affected by the State, it must be through agreements or, in most cases, by the owners — the municipalities — drawing up statutes that provide for government governance. The central element of the State influence on the activity of each toll company is through the agreement concluded with the company. Today, a so-called standard agreement is used, which regulates the relationship between the State and the company. If the contract is not followed up or there is a breach by other means, the road authorities may terminate the contract, with the result that the company loses the right to collect tolls. So the state has a means to influence and manage the company if necessary. With regard to the daily operation of a toll company, I am of the clear opinion that this is initially the responsibility of the owners. A toll project usually comes after a previous application, where local authorities have signalled clear political will to participate. At the same time, where local authorities wish to collect funds from the drivers, we must assume that the same authorities will have an interest in minimising operating costs. It is not natural for the state to take over this responsibility, and I believe that continued local responsibility in this area will contribute to good efficiency. However, the Constitution states that Stortinget wants the Ministry to assess further measures to improve the state follow-up. I can therefore inform you that the Ministry of Transport has for some time asked the Directorate of Road to review this standard agreement to see if there are any points that could be improved. I will also stress to the conclusion that I believe both the Government and the Stortinget agree with the need for effective collection, and from my side I can assure you that these questions will be included in the assessments made regarding the ongoing and future toll project. I would also like to refer to the clear guidelines for cost management, for example. such projects drawn up in the 1998 budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e444	I agree with Councillor Dørum that if you want to get what he calls a good spirit, you have to use local involvement and also use the institute that is established through toll financing. I also agree that when local forces join forces and take responsibility for borrowing, forgeing and financing the development of state road projects, they should also be responsible for operating within a financially sound framework. I also agree that as these are state development projects and the Stortinget need to have a certain overview of how much of society’s funding is being used for road development, guidelines need to be established. However, there must be a clear improvement in the follow-up to these guidelines and the possibility for the Storting to regulate this through the annual road appropriations, so that it is not always the drivers responsible for poor financial management or for poor forecasts of development. This is where we have to have follow-up. I don't have any faith, like the Progress Party, that if you organize this in a completely different way, it's necessarily going to give so much better results. I think the systemism of having a local responsibility for this in and on its own is good enough, if the contractual basis is good enough. It may be possible that there is a reason for the state authorities to go in and look at it. Is the basis of the agreement good enough? Are the premises on which the Stortinget takes its decisions well established? We have seen that the Storting has been working on changes in these projects over and over again, as we have seen that the money does not extend. Having said that, I have to be allowed to say that it sounds like, when you talk about hard money, toll financing and one thing with the other, that it opens up huge cash flows that are going to come in and save Veg-Norway. But we're talking about the nation's money anyway. And if the Norwegian people have the opportunity to increase their gross domestic product by 2 pst. within a year, and chooses to use 3 pst. Thus, in order to increase road development, this house needs to be tightened in other areas, regardless of whether it is directly financed by the State or whether to collect the money through toll financing. We must not lose sight of the fact that it is not just about getting other funding methods, it is also about total priorities of society's resources. That's why it's the Storting that needs to be its responsibility consciously and deal with these projects. But I fully agree, there is a reason to see if the premises and the basis of the agreement are as modern as it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e453	That committee leader Kosmo now explained, and the vision he expressed is with and confirms what we have said in the Progress Party all the time, that time and time again we stand on the Spokesman's Chair of the Storting and talk about these projects in retrospect, after we have partially had rounds that are about the Stortinge to make changes in the financing of different projects. And over and over again, we say that we should learn from what has happened through both the lack of planning, the financing and the operation of different projects, and that next time we have to do it in a much better way. However, we have not seen any particular improvement in this area. What we've seen is that we have to review the whole system, we have to try to get to a system that places responsibility in a better way, where we have an opportunity to extend those who do not follow the decisions that are made on planning/economy, or that ignores what government authorities, the Storting and others have adopted. In many of these cases, what we have examined in the Control Committee is borderline cases that are also under the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport and the Committee on Transport. So I'm glad that someone will learn, but I note that the majority of the Stortinget will not do anything concrete by participating in the creation of a new system – at least get an assessment of a new system – that allows you to get a divorce from the wheat and get an opportunity to place the responsibility where it belongs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e464	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3297]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e478	I can assure the Storting that Innst. S. No 166 is interesting reading. It becomes particularly interesting when it's the IT business in the Ministry of Justice and the underlying agencies we're talking about. For the Ministry of Justice, the law and justice must be observed in this country – once a decision has been taken, it must be followed up. The Committee has therefore noted that, with regard to the review by the National Audit Office of the governance and coordination of IT activities in the justice sector, the conclusions drawn by the Ministry of Justice are well in line with the conclusions of the National Audit Office’s investigations into the work under way to improve the coordination of IT activities. We also know that under the Ministry of Justice there have been significant IT projects in the various parts of the justice sector in the last decade. The aim of the study we have had now was to assess whether the IT effort in the justice sector is coordinated and whether the projects under way contribute to achieving the objectives of cost-effectiveness and a quality of the work process with which one can see benefits. Therefore, the following issues have been addressed: Is the Ministry of Justice’s management of IT activities in the justice sector adequately managed, and how much emphasis is placed on the coordination of IT activities?Are efficiency gains planned and have they been realised within individual IT projects? When we review and see the important work done by the National Audit Office, the Committee will strongly stress that overall governance in order to achieve the objective has been deficient for a long time in the justice sector, by not developing an overall IT strategy, and by ensuring that the IT strategies for the subsectors are maintained at departmental level in the ministry. The IT units have also pointed out the lack of coordination, the unclear signals and the lack of overall management by the department. This has led to a greater involvement of the professional departments in the results of their own sector and, to a lesser extent, in the coordination that has been the overall objective – that one should coordinate across the sectors. Nor has the Ministry of Justice clarified and clarified the cost-effectiveness and quality objectives in the form of appropriate performance requirements in the letters of award. For this reason, the Committee is concerned that the studies show that the IT strategies of the departments contain too few objectives to ensure the re-use and flow of information across the criminal justice chain, when this has been a prerequisite for achieving the objectives of the sector as a whole. Nor does the Committee share the view of the Police Data Service, which has indicated that the Ministry's cross-criminal coordination objective has limited utility. The Committee considers that it must be a prerequisite for the Ministry of State to ensure that all work towards the same objectives in the field of IT activities at all times. The Committee is also concerned that the concrete effects of the coordination efforts of the Ministry of Justice are disproportionate to the stated objective of the amicability. Therefore, this work must be given high priority. The Committee also shares the Riksrevision's view that the adopted IT strategies must be followed up by the Ministry and that the agencies, inter alia. the development of realistic objectives must contribute to the practical follow-up of the objectives set by the Storing and the sector itself. The Committee therefore welcomes and notes that, according to the letter of reply sent to the Riksaudition, the Ministry will seek to clarify the coordination objectives on cost-effectiveness and quality in the form of appropriate performance requirements in the letters of award and to establish better procedures for the assessment of benefits and the follow-up to the impact of the coordination measures. The Committee has also stressed the importance of providing the Ministry of Justice with an urgent clarification on information security and privacy in relation to the re-use and flow of information in the justice sector. We see that the issue of information security and privacy in relation to re-use and flow across the whole sector has been an important issue. The Committee has therefore underlined the importance that the Ministry, in cooperation with the Data Protection Authority, should be given an opportunity to clarify the issues relating to the use of electronic response registers by criminal services in the context of the exchange of information on deployments, leave and release. The Committee stresses that it is important for the Ministry of Justice to be given that clarification and that this work is given the priority of which a unanimous committee underlines the importance of this. The Committee has noted that the implementation of IT at local level has been given slightly lower priority than one intended. Therefore, it may appear that it is well ahead of seeing the total gain of Local IT. This work must also be followed up in the further work and in the further process by the Ministry. Finally, the Committee stresses that it is important for the National Audit Office to follow-up projects separately, both in terms of progress and in terms of making use of the planned benefits for police operations, such as: the judicial committee provided for in Busjett-Inst. S. No 4 for 1995-96. I would advise the Stortinget to take the decision recommended by the Control Committee, namely that Document No. 3:5 for 1998-99, on the Riksrevision study on the governance and coordination of IT activities in the justice sector, is annexed to the Protocol and requires the new Minister of Justice to respond as soon as possible to the important challenges and requirements of both the Riksrevision and an overall committee on this important sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e511	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3297]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e525	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of changing lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and after the contributions of members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e536	There is a 10 year-old case we are dealing with in Stortinget today, and undoubtedly different considerations can be taken into account in the assessment of this case. It can be seen as a tribute to Norwegian legal certainty that shows how any doubt benefits the accused, how unselfish organisations, lawyers and individuals work in the good cause against an unfair and bureaucratic administration, and how opposition politicians engage on the same side. However, I have also heard, among others. in press circuits, the term «kynic populism» used as an expression of these positions. It is also possible to see this case as an expression of how lies, deception and dishonest conduct pay off in the Norwegian legal community, how credulous politicians, organisations and individuals get involved with, we must believe, the noblest motives, but where the result is that people's perception of justice is trampled on and set aside, and thus that injustice is committed. And not least, it is possible to see that such a lengthy, dubious and emotional process is to the detriment of not only legal awareness, but also for the individuals it was intended to help. This is horrified by the fact that if you get the confession that the contingent amnesty has been given through fraud and dishonesty, it in itself will have a negative signal effect. The individuals concerned are placed in a somewhat unfortunate situation because they have to provide information that they can be penalised under Section 47 of the Foreign Affairs Act after the next round. In the opinion of the Court, this cannot be seen as different from undermining the principle that suspects in criminal matters may refuse to give an explanation. In many ways there is a unique and special attitude that exists, not only because it is largely unanimous in a very strong criticism of the procedure, but also because this criticism is based on the government's own information, as it has emerged, for example. in the press releases of the Minister of Justice of 6 May 1998 and 17 December 1998. Both press releases are attached to the setting. The origin of today's suspension dates back to 1990 through what soon became known as the Gholam case. An asylum seeker came to Norway without travel documents and claimed he was an asylum seeker from Afghanistan. Later it has been shown that he came to Norway via Denmark, where he was visiting with a tourist visa to visit Pakistani relatives. The visa application to Denmark has been rediscovered. Three years later, the spouse and four children came to Norway, again without travel documents. The spouse and the children were granted a family reunification residence permit. Later, it has been demonstrated that all four repeated the ‘successes’ that the father had used three years earlier, by also coming to Denmark with a tourist visa as Pakistani citizens to visit relatives. These visa applications have also been rediscovered later. With the same type of justification, namely the lack of travel documents and the lack of expediency, several others were granted a residence permit in Norway. The cases have become known as the Quetta and Lao projects, because they deal with Pakistani people from the so-called Quetta area and Thai citizens who claimed they were from Laos. On the basis of concrete information on these issues, cooperation between the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and Kripos in the so-called Quetta project was launched in the autumn of 1994. Extensive investigation work was carried out, including, inter alia: additional interrogations, language tests, seizure of comprehensive evidence and the collection of visa applications in Denmark and Pakistan. Kripos cooperated with several police districts in Norway, with Danish foreign agencies and with Danish Kripos. In December 1994, a mission was carried out to Quetta with representatives of the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the Norwegian Embassy in Islamabad. There were 14 individual cases investigated. In 13 of these cases, it turned out that asylum seekers were Pakistani citizens. The information was subsequently confirmed in the further investigation. In April 1996, representatives of the Foreign Directorate and Kripos travelled to Islamabad. A total of 21,000 visa applications were checked for the Nordic countries and Germany. Among other things, found 40 people identified as Pakistani citizens but residing in Norway as citizens of Afghanistan. They had all come to Norway via Denmark with Pakistani passports and tourist visas to visit families. Then they were smuggled to Norway where they appeared as paperless Afghan asylum seekers who claimed they had fled through Iran. It is unnecessary to stress that the use of resources to detect this serious crime has been very large. In its press release of 6 May 1998, the Minister of Justice said: ‘The research carried out in the Quetta project has shown that there has been a comprehensive, systematic and well-organised smuggling of human beings and illegal immigration from Quetta to Norway. The people involved are not refugees. There is nothing in the matter that suggests that they have needed protection. They have been granted a residence permit on the basis of false explanations of both nationality, identity, travel and asylum grounds. Human trafficking is illegal and punishable. General preventive considerations and the protection of the institution of asylum mean that information on human trafficking is taken seriously by Norwegian foreign authorities.’;» So far from the Ministry of Justice. Then you can ask why worldwide repatriation was not carried out, but on the contrary it became a so-called conditional amnesty through a press release on 17 December 1998. However, the conclusion of this press release is clear, and I quote: ‘It is a prerequisite for Norwegian authorities to know the nationality and identity of non-residents living in Norway. It is clear that all the persons associated with the Quetta and Lao projects have obtained residence in Norway by means of false nationality, identity and explanation.’ And the Minister of Justice added: ‘However, we believe that these persons are now involved in clarifying their correct identity.’ I have initially stated that this in itself is a strange premise, but equally fully I assume that the Government is now making serious its own premises. The deadline for the persons concerned to clarify the requirements of the Minister of Justice in the above press release expired at the end of the month of April to May. I am aware that a further – short – postponement has been granted later. That is why I look forward today to the Minister of Justice clarifying, without any outside talk, what action is being taken in relation to those who still did not have to comply with the demands of the then Minister of Justice Aure in the press release of 17 December 1998. The Judicial Committee is unrelentingly critical of the behaviour of the alleged asylum seekers. In the setting, a total of the Justice Department, except for the Advance Party, says: ‘The majority agree with the Department’s clarification that the consequence of non-compliance with these conditions is that the persons concerned will not be covered by the breast-feeding period and that in that case they will have to return to their country of origin.’ The fact that the Progress Party is not involved in this is of course due to the fact that they have left exactly that side of the setting. I look forward to the clarification – not least because the then Minister for Transport Odd Einar Dørum made an emotional appeal in support of the Gholam family and even signed a bulwark in support of the family. I understand that the term ‘adult training’ is not perceived as a compliment in the Government, and I am sensitive to suggestions for other comprehensive formulations. By way of clarification, the majority of the Committee has taken place, inter alia: in the light of the Government's own booklet and its own wording on the consequences of not complying with the rules of the Governments' rules of procedure, it is a pity that the Advance Party cannot also comply with the wishes of the Committee of the Regions for the document to be annexed to the Protocol. Through the Committee's discussion, the rapporteurs have received broad recognition of the intention of the proposal, and I await, as I said, the Minister of Justice's confirmation in this way. It is also regrettable that at least the Workers' Party is retreating to support the comments from the Right and the Advance Party that the Government should not have granted breast-feeding, and that we require a more consistent treatment in the future. It was not least the Labour Party's own Ministers of Justice who were deprived of the opposition's position on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e594	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e597	In the past, the rapporteur has also gone out in the media and stated that there is an overall committee that addresses strong and strong criticism of the Government and the Department. Of course, there have been many reactions, not least with me, which are wondering where the case-rapporteur has got this from. What is actually happening is that the Department and the Council of State in what has been presented to the Committee very strongly emphasizes that there have been things here that the Ministry will not sanction as a procedure to be used by people below. On the contrary, a very strong settlement has been made with the form of misleading the Norwegian authorities that this case shows. That is why it is not the opinion of the majority of the committee – at least not the opinion of the members of the party that I represent – through some of the comments to express that the government here has had a bad hand with the presentation, or that the proceedings have been miserable. That's not what's in it. We underline and express that this does not have to repeat itself in the future. But there are some circumstances that make you conclude what you do. And I therefore allow myself to ask the President-in-Office what it is in the joint submissions that the President-in-Office is so high and profiled so strongly that this is a majority criticising the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e604	I guess I should be allowed to say that this was a surprising line. The essential thing is what the government parties are at in the setting. If the representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen would like to see it as a compliment to the government's handling of this matter, then I would be happy to do so. For my part, I look forward to the clarification that the Minister of Justice will make in relation to what is now at the heart of the matter, that a conditional amnesty was given with very specific premises. The timing of the premises has expired – it expired in the month of April to May. I am familiar with, through telephone calls to the department, that there is an additional so-called short deadline. It is clarified that it is about approx. two weeks. So we are, in other words, after all the sunmarks to judge in the situation that we now have to wait for what the Government will do to the people who have done things that make a collective committee write that it ‘emphasises that it is not necessary to accept, for ethical or practical reasons, a practice whereby unlawful conduct against the Norwegian authorities gives preference to residence and subsequent citizenship in Norway’. As I said, if the representative Marthinsen sees this as a praise for the government's way of dealing with the matter, then I would like to see it. The important thing is that we agree – if I understood him correctly – that we should have nothing more of such a practice. And as I said, what will the Government do in the current situation we are now facing?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e616	I note that the representative Hernæs does not have the cover for what he has said, through what is now outlined in the reply to my reply. That is why I think the representative should try to read in the future what is actually written. Then he would have seen that it is actually consistent with the assessments that the ministry itself is doing. I note with this that there is a great deal of consensus – also with regard to the Government – that this is not desirable for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e623	It's unlikely that this line exchange will take us a little bit longer. I myself, as the rapporteur-in-Office, am very pleased with the agreement we have reached through the committee position. I feel this way no need to add anything more. Then I get just for the sake of order, so that it should remain standing, state that the findings made by the representative Marthinsen stand entirely at his own expense.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e630	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e633	In this document, a proposal to convert a conditional amnesty given to about 250 people living in Norway is presented by the Progress Party. It was granted by the Ministry of Justice on 17 December 1998, following a decision to expel Norway. The issues covered by this document are by no means a new issue, which has been under discussion in the press and in the political environment for several years. This is about a group of people that Norwegian authorities have evidence of coming from a country other than what they themselves have said they are doing – i.e. Pakistani citizens claiming to be from Afghanistan, the Quetta area, and Thai citizens claiming to be from Laos. The most well-known of those to whom amnesty belongs is the family of Gholam. When the Labour Party put in government, we got massive criticism from the opposition because we decided to revoke the residence permit and expel the Gholam family. Among the critics included: the parties which are currently in government. At that time, they believed that the Labour Party was not humane enough in refugee and asylum policy. Thorbjørn Jagland said as Prime Minister here in Stortinget: ‘It is absolutely right that we should have a humane refugee policy, but that does not mean that we should have a refugee policy without rules. We need rules that can be enforced in order for us to have a humane refugee policy." As I said, the criticism is against Minister of Justice Grete Faremo and later Gerd-Liv Valla, not least from today's Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik. There might be reason to ask yourself the question: Is today's amnesty given because one should not be taken in a breach of promises? If so, the promise policy also shows itself here to give backlash. When there was a change of government in 1997 and the Bondevik government took over, the impending Minister of Justice Aud-Inger Aure said that it was very useful and important training to get into government position. These are not my words about adult training, but a repetition of what was said at the time. Justice Minister Aure was also one of those who spoke warmest in favor of letting the Gholam family host in Norway. Aure said in an interview with Aftenposten on 10 May 1998: ‘What the Gholam family has done is to provide a false identity in order to obtain residence in the country. It is illegal immigration and violates Norwegian law.’ The decision to send the family out was thus taken at layer level. But then the government turned around and gave the family Gholam and the others that are included in the so-called Quetta and Lao projects, a bequeathing amnesty in Norway. First of all, I would like to point out that such faltering from the Government's side does not make any sense to any of the parties. Secondly, it is alarming that the Minister of Justice here has given breast-feeding under such conditions that these persons must be involved in eradicating their proper identity. This means that illegal behaviour vis-à-vis Norwegian authorities has preferred to stop in Norway. In other words, just one admits that one actually has a false identity, it's okay. So if you agree that one comes from that country, the government says that one comes from, and also within a time limit, a few hosts in Norway can do that. It is striking that the Government can reinvigorate this to provide false identity. What kind of practice is this? And the question is whether this will give preference to similar behaviour on the part of the ministry in future cases. I hope not. In these cases, we are faced with a systematic violation of the law in relation to Norwegian foreign authorities, and both the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and Kripos, through the Quetta project, have been able to carry out a large research project with a view to doing so. additional clearances, language tests, seizure of comprehensive evidence and the collection and review of visa applications in Norway and Pakistan. In this work, Kripos has worked with several police districts in Norway, Danish foreign agencies and Danish Kripos. Large resources, both human and financial, have gone into this investigation. Illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings are illegal and subject to criminal liability under the Foreign Law § 47. There must be no doubt about this. The committee, including us from the Labour Party, is occupied with the general preventive concerns in such cases, nets because they are so extensive, so complicated and so difficult to investigate. The Committee therefore emphasises the need to accept an ethical, humane or practical cork of practice where illegal behaviour in relation to Norwegian authorities is preferable to abstinence and subsequent citizenship in Norway. Minister of Justice Aure said in the press that this was an isolated act, and that the decision was signed under strong doubt. I still want to warn against these kinds of political decisions. When someone is here in the country on a false basis, it is illegal immigration. The working party, like the rest of the committee, is very sceptical about the use of amnesty as a general instrument and will therefore warn against a practice in which dishonest and dishonest behaviour allows for suspension. We must be on guard against abuse by the institution of asylum, and that is what former Minister of Justice Aure said. In other words, I agree with the proposers that in this case we are talking about a breach of foreign law. But I, the Labour Party and the rest of the plurality of the committee are not saying that the decision should be converted. The majority of the Committee notes that one considers that this decision has nevertheless been taken within the scope of what must be considered to be the Ministry and the Government's area of authority. It is also the case that if we had gone in here to reverse the decision, it would have been a big business, and such practice does not want the Labour Party to add up. Human trafficking is a threat to security in today's international societies. It is important that we fight against this form of organized crime, and I argued that the government will follow this up. At the same time, we have a responsibility for those who come to Norway who really have a legitimate need for protection, and who do not specify false identity to be allowed to stay here. These are the people we need to protect and help. We need a human immigration policy to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e672	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e675	The representative Nistad made a very clear statement, in line with the broad consensus it is on this matter. Nevertheless, there is a point that the Workers' Party would not be in, and that goes into that situation, among other things. which is created for asylum seekers, if we are to be so lovable to call them it, which is being subjected to the conflict of interests, organisations and authorities this year after year. It is clear from the statement that the Ministry of Government too is of the clear opinion that persons covered by the Quetta project do not fulfil the conditions for residence in Norway. Then they found a number of other reasons to give them that anyway. This is the Right Party and the Advance Party disagree. I should like to know what comes out of the fact that the Workers' Party does not agree with the wording that it is ‘a very unfortunate signal to send that one can get a stay through training and dishonesty’ in Norway. We also say that we believe that breast-feeding should not be given, and that ‘practice with posting in cases where asylum seekers have provided incorrect information is maintained in the future’. When we do not want to fully support the proposals of the Progress Party, it is because we want to maintain the distinction between the work of the government and the Stortinget. But it assumes that the Storting gives the clear leadership that the Government does as it itself says, and as the Storing assumes it does. I would like to repeat the question: why in the world couldn't the Workers' Party participate in the joint comment of the Advance Party and the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e682	I would like to stress that the criticism we have from the Labour Party is very strong in relation to what has been done by the Government in this matter. I mean that the setting that's ahead of us is a good one for criticism, and that the comment from both the Right and the Advance Party is really just a repetition of what has been said before by a collective committee. I think that a group committee has a much stronger comment in such a context, because we don't want a repetition of a situation like the one we've had in this matter over such a long period. With the criticism that has been from the opposition, we want from the Labour Party's side to show that we have a neat way of dealing with such things. We'll bring the criticism. The responsibility of a government is also the responsibility of a government. But to expose it to criticism we demand the right to do when we are in opposition, and we have done so in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e687	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e690	In 1990, Gholam Hussain traveled from his hometown of Quetta in Pakistan to Copenhagen to visit a relative. He traveled on a visa as a Pakistani citizen. Later that year he appeared in Norway without a passport and applied for asylum as a refugee from Afghanistan. Three years later, Gholam’s spouse and four children also came to Norway. They also first traveled to Denmark on a Pakistani passport to visit a relative, and then appeared in Norway without passports and with claims to come from Afghanistan. When Gholam Hussain put up in Norwegian just seven years later to complain about an expulsion decision, he was unable to explain himself in Norwegian. He had not been working until then, but had lived in all of these seven years in Norwegian taxpayers. This family is not the only one who has come to Norway from this Pakistani city. In the years 1994-1996, the Directorate for Foreign Affairs and Kripos carried out a comprehensive investigation of additional interrogations, language tests, the collection of visa applications in Denmark and Pakistan and the seizure of evidence after searches and discovered that about half of the data were available. 40 Pakistani citizens from this city lived in Norway as Afghan refugees. In a press release of 6 May 1998, the Ministry of Justice states that it has revealed a ‘substantial, systematic and well-organised human trafficking and illegal immigration from Quetta to Norway’. It is established in the press that the people involved are not refugees, and that nothing indicates that they need protection. A total of six cases involving Pakistani people from Quetta have been tried in Norwegian courts. There are a total of ten judges and convicts. The Ministry of Justice was released in all cases. A unanimous Justice Department points out in this case that we are faced with a systematic crime that has linked large resources to both the U.D. and the Kripos. A unanimous judicial authority states that neither ethical nor practical practice should be accepted in which unlawful behaviour against the Norwegian authorities gives preference to residence and subsequent citizenship in Norway. The Committee expresses scepticism for the use of amnesty as a general instrument and warns against a practice in which dishonesty and unfair behaviour grant residence permits in Norway. In this, of course, it is, as the rapporteur also stated, a very strong criticism of the Government, for the Government has actually rewarded dishonesty and dishonest behaviour by giving amnesty. So if the government now both takes self-criticism and criticises itself, at least in the formulations of the committee there is a harsh criticism of the practice that the government has led. Despite these facts, despite the fact that we are facing massive illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, despite the fact that Pakistanis from Quetta have deliberately lied about their background and despite the fact that these people are not in danger in their home country and will not have any problems in going back to a city where they have many relatives, the government has decided to allow these false refugees to remain in Norway only on the condition that they admit they are liars. It's quite eye-catching. It eliminates any consistency in Norwegian asylum and refugee policies and any principle of non-discrimination, as other immigrants who have lied about their background have been expelled after an equal length of residence in Norway. I note that no other party supports the proposal of the Progress Party to ask the Government to reverse the conditional amnesty decision. The rest of the Storting accepts, in other words, the government's amnesty, despite the verbal criticism of the committee's comments. The pretext for accepting that fraudsters and liars, who are neither persecuted nor in danger and who will not have problems repatriating to their country of origin, may remain in Norway is that the decision on amnesty has been taken within the scope of what must be assumed to be the Ministry's jurisdiction. It is an argument that is not a believer, at least not on the part of the Workers' Party. This party has accepted in other matters that the Storting interferes with decisions that normally sort under the Government. It would be enough to refer to the proposal of the representative of Kjell Opseth in the IT Fornebu case. So we have to assume that there is a lack of willingness to clean up the vote. We're just going to find out that the bulk of the population, that is. all the parties outside the Advance Party, in practice agree to reward fraud and fraud. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e705	Jan Simonsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e710	I have to admit that I had a lot of sense for the representative Simonsen's comparison between IT Fornebu and the present proposal from the Progress Party. However, what I would like to ask the representative Simonsen directly is the fact that the proposal proposes to instruct the Government to convert an administrative decision. The question is whether the representative Simonsen has decided whether the Government will be able to convert this administrative decision under the rules on the conversion of administrative decisions. The general rule is that once a single decision has been taken, it is only if there is a complaint that there is an opportunity to reverse the decision. The right of management to convert its own decisions is very limited. The question which could then arise, if the Stortinget were to instruct the Government and the Ministry to reverse a decision, and which, in fact, under general administrative law, would not be able to reverse the decision, is: What would be the representative Simonsen's assessment of what the Government would do?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e719	The Committee has attempted to clarify these issues through a letter to the Administration of Storting without having been given any clarification. My position is that we have to make this decision, and if necessary the persons who have to be expelled will have to appeal the new expulsion decision before Norwegian law and bring it before a court.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e724	It was the comparison of the representative Simonsen made between IT Fornebu and the asylum institute's principle and legislation that made me speak. I would like to ask: With the background of a majority decision in the Stortinget where one can have the basis to believe that the Government does not follow up the decision of the Storinget, and order it to do so – is there not a certain difference between the formal and the institutional, when the Storinget has given the Government the power to take a decision in these matters, on the basis of the legislation given on amnesty? It might have been fun to have a slightly more extensive foundation than the representative Hove got when it came to those principles, because I see a certain difference between these two things.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e731	It is clear that the government has also acted in this matter in violation of the signals previously received from Stortinget. The unanimous comment of the committee clearly explains that Stortinget does not want such a procedure in the future. So in it there's a criticism and a clear undertone that you think the government has done something that the government really shouldn't have done. It must then be possible for the Storting to have this decision reversed. This is a decision that does not concern just a single case and a single family. This is a decision concerning a large group of people who have come illegally to Norway and, as such, the case is so large that it should initially have been submitted to the Stortinget for treatment, in particular because it is contrary to the usual guidelines adopted by the Stortinget for the treatment of the Foreign Affairs Act. I see no problem that this decision should be converted by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e736	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e740	For the Christian People's Party and this government, fighting organised crime is an important objective. Organized crime includes, among other things: trafficking in human beings, whether by smuggling others or through illegal immigration. The group of people we're talking about in the Inner East. S.172 is concerned with approx. 250 people. There is no doubt that these have come to Norway and received a residence permit under incorrect conditions. Through a nine-time and extensive work, the Norwegian authorities have revealed the facts. The individuals and families involved are not regular refugees, nor are they persecuted in their country of origin. If what these people have been informed was true, the granting of a stay would not offer problems, but they have been granted a residence permit in Norway on the basis of false explanations of both nationality, identity, travel and other grounds for asylum. This is very serious, and the Christian People's Party shares the concern of the asylum institute expressed in press release No. 24/98 from the Ministry of Justice. The general preventive considerations require consistent follow-up when someone deliberately undermines the authority of the asylum institution. Such an estimate is the case in this case. The government has very strongly underlined this side of the matter at hand. However, when the government chooses to make an exception in the matter we have to deal with, it happens on the basis of assessments Christian People's Party parts. First, it is about the long actual length of residence that many have had, even some up to 12 years old, and second, about the relationship that most people have had to Norway when they have been allowed to live here without authorisation or that repatriation has been undertaken, and thirdly, there are many children involved. However, conditions are also attached to breast-feeding, so that Norwegian authorities should know the nationality and identity of foreigners living in Norway at all times. So it's a conditional amnesty that shouldn't be the precedent for the future. The rapporteur says to TV 2 and also here in the Chamber today that a joint committee criticises the Government. That's wrong. In the Christian People's Party we share the concerns the Government also has, while joining in the assessment that leads to the conclusion. The next question in principle, as Document No. 8:25 travelling, is whether the Storting may instruct the Government in plenary decisions on how to exercise the authority granted under the Foreign Affairs Act. Then it's interesting to see what Storting's administration answers to that. After they have referred from various authorities in the field, they say that: ‘We assume that there are no special points of reference in the Foreign Affairs Act to interpret it in such a way that the plenary session cannot give instructions on how to practice it’. In a sense, it is concluded that the most recent theory is that: ‘The government may adopt instructions in plenary even if the government’s authority is governed by law, both general instructions and instructions in individual cases, and that such instructions will be binding on the government’. ‘However, it must be assumed that it is a prerequisite for the Grand total to take such a decision that there will be no legal obstacle to the government’s being able to comply with the instructions adopted by the Grand Duchy, if any. The instructions must therefore, for example: do not conflict with any of the provisions of the law." And on the other hand, ‘As a general rule, an administrative body does not have the power to reverse a valid decision which has been notified when the conversion would be detrimental to someone to which the decision relates. As far as we understand, a transformation of breast-feeding would have to be said to harm the persons covered by it.’ Furthermore, ‘In the present case, the private individuals concerned appear to have a strong interest in maintaining the amnesty-free roof, which may have a significant impact on them.’ That is why I think it is right, as the Committee has come up with in its majority proposal, that this matter be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e780	I can agree that this matter raises many fundamental questions, which have been raised by others. But no matter how you look at it, there is a paradox that this matter comes up the day after May 17, when at least some of us talked about freedom also for those who for some reason seek protection here with us. We talked about the value of multicultural Norway and what conflicts can arise when someone systematically speculates in fear of alienation. I think it's an undertone at the Advancement Party, that's exactly what they're doing. No one is worthy to come to the country if they do not have a white skin color or a Norwegian-sounding name, a Nordic or maybe an English-sounding name, or have a different religious background. As I said, I think there's a lot of this attitude that's under it. Fortunately, communities and individuals have turned around individuals and families that have been threatened to be thrown out of Norway – such as the Gholam family and Juma Khan in Bergen. There, the employer, the trade union movement and almost the entire presidency – minus the Progress Party – have committed themselves to supporting the Hazara Juma Kahn. The joy was great when he got amnesty before Christmas. But the joy was subdued when it went up to them that this was a conditional amnesty. Of course, this case is also about the behaviour of the Minister of Justice and the Department when the Hazara in Norway received a conditional amnesty. One might disagree as to whether it was a trick or not. In any case, we believe that what was critical was the conditions that were attached to breast-feeding. It appears that the Ministry still believes that the Quetta Hazara will only be able to provide Pakistani passports, i.e. they will only be accepted if they can cough up a Pakistani passport. But as Juma Khan in Bergen says, how am I going to be able to cough up a Pakistani passport when I'm not Pakistani? Confusion is great in the environment. For us in SV, this case is also about whether the hazara should continue to be subjected to a witching process — a coffeecake process — here in Norway. The majority of the committee rejects the proposals of the Progress Party, but I think it continues the processes, and it does not problem that the Hazara have been and is one of the most persecuted minorities in Afghanistan and is also a paria caste in Pakistan. Nor can I say that the department has problematized what kind of persecuted minority the Hazara really are. SV now asks the Minister of Justice to settle and allow those to whom this amnesty applies to really to be given amnesty, and that no additional conditions are attached to it – such as coughing up Pakistani passports, which they are unable to provide. I would remind you that the ministry, through its many house searches, has itself found that no one holds Pakistani passports of nationality. Pakistani passports may only be issued by Pakistani authorities. The lawyer of the Gholam family has sent countless requests, both to the Embassy in Oslo and to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Pakistan, on the nationality and passport of the Gholam family. To date, the Gholam family ‘so far available’ is not Pakistani citizens, as is stated in the letter. You can come up with many judgmental words that many have provided incorrect information on arrival. I mean, it's not good, it's not good at all. But in any case, the Hazara have been here for so long now that they have to have the opportunity to become, get the opportunity to take hold of their lives. As I said, the Minister of Justice has to sort out, and these conditions of coughing up Pakistani passports, when they are not Pakistani, also have to be settled.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e797	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e800	I am of course provoked by the SV representative's suggestion that this had something to do with skin colour, foreign fear or that you do not like Afghan name. She has to realize from my post that the whole point of this case is that, according to the Ministry of Justice's assessment, these people are not in danger of returning to Pakistan. The point is that they are actually Pakistani citizens who have come illegally to Norway by throwing their passport and pronouncing themselves to something other than what they really are. It's also fixed by court decisions. It has been tested for Norwegian law in several cases — not only in the case of the Gholam family. In fact, Pakistan is not a country in which it is hopeless to live. I've visited friends in Pakistan and visited more families there and I've seen what living conditions are like. It's possible to live in Pakistan. My question has to be: does SV not want to open up to all Pakistani citizens who want to come to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e807	No, we don't want to open up to anyone who wants to come to Norway. To be honest, I don't think the big flow to get to Norway is there either. The point is, I can't see that anyone has ever taken on the problem that the Hazara are a persecuted people. There are many experts who have taken this into account, but on the part of the authorities I cannot see that this has been taken into account. When the representative Simonsen says it's OK to live in Pakistan, and no one is being persecuted there, I have to say that it's clear that it's OK to live in Pakistan. But can the representative Simonsen prove to me that the Hazara are not persecuted there, that they are not a paria caste, as several experts say? Then it is that these people in any case are unable to cough up a Pakistani passport, because the Pakistani authorities will not recognize that they are Pakistani citizens. I have a letter that one of the lawyers for these families has sent to the Ministry of Justice. There is great despair in the environment, because they are unable to cough up these Pakistani passports. It is also a fact that the Gholam family was rejected at the Pakistani border with the explanation that they were Afghan nationals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e816	There is therefore a conflict here between these families who claim to come from Afghanistan and the Norwegian authorities and the Ministry of Justice who claim that they come from Pakistan and who also claim that the Hazara have not been persecuted in their country of origin, Pakistan. So the question is, who is going to be the seventh and last judge here? Who will decide whether these people come from Pakistan or Afghanistan? Is it not then natural to allow a Norwegian court to decide this question? Actually, a Norwegian court has done that. There have been at least ten convictions in which it has been concluded that these persons come from Pakistan. And Norwegian law has thus drawn the conclusion from an assessment of the evidence provided by the defenders of these persons and from the Norwegian Ministry of Justice. So I'm wondering if SV does not at all have confidence in Norwegian courts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e821	Luckily, we have a good court order here in Norway, but what kind of sources do you use? It is also a good rule of law that doubt should benefit. I want to return the question. I am not familiar with the judicial committee, and if SV had done so, there might have been some other comments in this case as well. But I would like to ask: has the Committee ever used the experts in this field, and called them to hearings, when dealing with matters of this kind? And I'll quote from a letter that one of the lawyers to the Hazara have written, where he says, ‘In addition, officials of the Pakistani Embassy have repeatedly maintained that the Hazara are, in any case, Afghan nationals from the time they were approved as Afghans by official Afghan authorities.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e829	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e832	It is in many ways a difficult case The Stortinget has to deal with today. It's a matter that concerns many people and families, and where at least the case relating to one of the families has created a strong commitment, and many of us have been engaged at an earlier time for the benefit of that family. I think there might be reason for some self-recognition that you might have been wrong because of a lack of knowledge of the matter, and in particular a marking and demonstration that having full knowledge of a matter can be difficult when you are not in a direct decision position. Having said that, I would say at the same time that there is a matter and a matter in which there may be some uncertainty as to whether all the circumstances have been fully expressed, and where some of the problem is that in such a context of inviting the Storting to more concrete positions actually is that the Storting has to deal with a case complex which is really impossible to fully address. Put a little to the fore: on the one hand, there is full confidence in the Ministry's assessment of the actual basis of the case, and, on the other hand, criticism of other assessments carried out by the Ministry. It must be clear that the systematic provision of incorrect information for the purpose of having a residence in Norway on the wrong basis is illegal and that it should not be able to provide a basis for a stay. However, when you so strongly underline this with identity and background, and almost a kind of unique identity, it becomes to me a cross of thought and a counter-reflection that goes on whether it is always easy for everyone to have full control, full security, when one is deprived of identification papers, and when perhaps different countries also have different perceptions of what is the right identity. This said in general and without direct reference to the specific case, but as a certain counter-reflection in relation to this with a strong commitment to identity. As far as the specific matter is concerned, the Left supports what has been the Government's position, and essentially gives our support to the vote and the majority's comments there. But I want to highlight a few things that actually speak for a decision as it has become. First of all, it is the long stay that many of these people have had in Norway. And it travels and updates the question of a maximum time for when it may still be relevant to expel people because of uncertainties and uncertainties about identity. It must be the responsibility of the authorities to clarify the identity as quickly as possible so that it is not accompanied by the uncertainty. Secondly, there is a heavy argument related to children who have been in Norway for a long time and who have also been under education in Norway. Thirdly, they – at least some of them – have been sent out of the country and have been refused reception in the country to which they have been sent. It will be a moment in itself, although the fault had to lie with the authorities of the country to which they were sent. I must also be allowed to make the small comment that I share the Right's view on the question of setting conditions in relation to the use of amnesty. So to the question that I raised in a reply to the representative Simonsen, that is, the conversion order contained in the proposal of the Progress Party. I do not think I received a satisfactory response in the reply that the representative Simonsen came with. In fact, if the Stortinge were to take decisions in accordance with the proposals of the Progress Party – which we can fortunately count on not to do – it would be possible to put the Ministry and the Government in a situation of coercion: either to follow a roll-out decision, or to take a decision and at the same time risk taking a decision that is legally incorrect. I had hoped that I had received the answer from the representative Simonsen that there was a reservation in the proposal that the department did not find it legally impossible to fulfill what was implicit in the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e845	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e848	I must be allowed to state that I was very happy to hear the article from the representative Hove. At least it shows that one of the government parties, although not represented in the committee, joins in what a majority says in the vote. Nevertheless, there is something I want to clarify and comment on. Of course, we have never claimed that this is not a case that has several sides, in which case life would be easy. But we have reached a conclusion, both the Government and a very clear majority. It is stated in the majority comment – all except the Progress Party, but there are special reasons why they are not included: ‘However, the majority would point out that, by letter to the Justice Committee on 12 February 1999, the Ministry stresses that the Norwegian authorities must know the appropriate nationality and identity of the persons concerned and that only genuine and valid passports of Pakistan and Thailand are accepted. The majority agree with the Department’s clarification that the consequence of non-compliance with these conditions is that the persons concerned will not be covered by breast-feeding and that they will then have to return to their country of origin.’ This is a formulation that should be relatively clear to read. All the arguments you've had before, about long periods of residence and children, for example, they don't get any less topical as months go by. In spite of this, a majority of the Grand Duchy's judiciary states that if these detailed conditions are not met, they should be returned. I would like to ask: does the representative share this wording?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e861	First, I can express satisfaction with the fact that the representative herenæs also stressed that the matter has several sides, and that it may not be entirely unproblematic for very many people, whether you have to end up at one point or another. I have expressed my agreement with the majority, and I stand by that. But at the same time, I must also be allowed to state that I believe that the current reservation, that one should explicitly say that what was said earlier, is wrong, that it should be a condition for obtaining a residence permit, at least not unproblematic. I don't want to express myself in such a way that if there were to be complications about it, it would completely bind the department to further treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e868	It was with interest I listened to the representative Hove's start at the post here instead. I had a feeling that he sort of made the list so that one could think that maybe there wasn't enough work done in the department, and everything that had been done by the KRIPOS and the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, when it's up to finding out if these immigrants have specified false identity and thus get a stopover in the country on the wrong basis. I only want, with the background that also the Left in the government, to ask whether the Left in the Storting does not fully support what former Minister of Justice Aure said at the time, that the Gholam family, for example, said. have provided a false identity for abstinence in the country and illegal immigration and breach of Norwegian law. Does the Court of Justice and the Left here in the Grand Duchy stand on the case which has been done and what has been said here and support what has been said here in relation to the treatment which has been done to us?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e873	It may be a little difficult in dealing with a specific case to keep clear of each other's views on the specific matter on the one hand, and more generally different issues and issues other than specific issues. I have to be allowed to say that I want to fold back a little bit to get into it and take a concrete position on a very topical specific matter as long as we are in the situation that we do not even get presented with the entire material with which the department will actually sit. But I find that, and in that the lack of 100 percent support is not the same as not accepting or in particular assuming that the department has done a proper and proper job. And there will be a position I will try to take regardless of the party colour a current Minister of Justice might have, and regardless of the position you might have in relation to the individual Minister of Justice. That was probably what I actually initially had to say, that maybe one had gone a long way in signaling the position on this matter from some point of view when it was another Minister of Justice than the one sitting there, and actually took some self-criticism from that point of view. That's an attitude I also want to try to have. In that not to say a hundred percent that this is correct, lies in and of itself nothing but a little principleal restraint in relation to going in and taking an explicit position on a specific matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e880	The representative Hove used as a kind of general argument that after a family — and especially children — has lived in Norway for a certain period, a certain number of years, it is doubtful whether they should be expelled. This is a kind of argument I've heard many times, but I've never really understood. In Norway, many families move voluntarily, and children move with their parents, either from one city to another, or from one country to another, such as the United Kingdom. many children who have parents who are diplomats and who are moving with them both often and often and the children move with them. Is it so much worse for children of immigrants or refugees to have to accompany their parents back to a different country than it is for all these families and children who move voluntarily? I cannot understand that at my best, and cannot be erased when – as in this case – they move to their original country of origin, where, as the ministry has established, they have a significant relative. That's the one. The second is that the father of this family has now been in Norway for nine years and the rest of the family for six years is the result of the family itself; it is due to the family's lack of willingness to accept the first expulsion decision. They have passed this case on to the Norwegian courts, which means that they have automatically extended their stay in Norway. Does the representative of Howe believe it is right that such a extraction strategy should be rewarded with a permanent stay in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e891	First, I registered that the representative Simonsen in the line did not address the relationship with the proposal and the form of the proposal on which I in my post most directly challenged him. I just have to take note of that. Of course, the fact that you've heard an argument many times doesn't make it right in itself. But it is not given that it is necessarily wrong, even though the representative Simonsen has not fully understood the answers he should have received. There's actually a difference between moving voluntarily and moving away because you have to because you're being expelled. That's the one. The second is that if you want to think about how a move will work on the individual child, you have to actually go into the specific matter and with the individual child. There will have to be more general assessments here. I think that in many of the examples that Simonsen's representative mentioned, it will be a matter of fewer problems for children to move than it will do in a good part of the things we're dealing with here, among other things. by trying to adapt and get used to a different culture and then being sent out again under coercion, perhaps with parents who are very close to and motivated to necessarily make the best of the situation. In short, I do not think it is possible to give a simple, general answer and say that for all children it will be harmful and for no children harmless. But I think absolutely there will be moments in this that might suggest that it will actually be a bigger problem for children in an expulsion situation than for children who move completely voluntarily. I think absolutely that the time and time is a point. I could probably be a little more open to discuss the question of the deadline or the length of the stay to be cut off in relation to the question of departure etc.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e902	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e905	The representatives Carl I. Hagen and Jan Simonsen have made the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking the Government to reverse its decision on the conditional amnesty of foreigners covered by the so-called Quetta and Lao projects.’ I refer to Document No. 8: 25 for 1998-99. The position of the Judicial Committee in the case is of 6 May this year, and I have noticed that the majority of the Committee acknowledges that the decision on breast-feeding is a decision taken within the scope of what must be assumed to be the Ministry's area of competence and that the majority of the Committee, with it, has taken note of the ministry's examination of the matter. However, I would like to comment on some of the issues surrounding breast-feeding in the so-called Quetta and Lao projects, relating to the comments of both the majority and the minority in the case. I would like to begin by stressing that the Ministry's press release of 17 December 1998 stated that the amnesty of the Pakistani and Thai citizens who were included in the so-called Quetta and Laos projects was a one-off affair. Former Minister of Justice Aud-Inger Aure also pointed out that the decision had been taken under strong doubt. However, the government found it appropriate to give these people breast-feeding time, as matters are special. Most of the persons concerned have had a long residence and relationship with Norway. Some families had lived in Norway for up to 12 years without a final decision or a negative decision being implemented. The groups included many children and a limited number of cases and persons. So the amnesty period was given for several reasons. At the same time, it is particularly important to note the assumption that the persons covered must help to clarify their proper identity. In other words, breast-feeding is conditional. It is essential that Norwegian authorities know the nationality and identity of non-residents living in Norway. Like the Committee, I am very serious about the fact that the people associated with the so-called Quetta and Laos projects have taken up residence in Norway by means of false nationality, identity and explanation. A large and absolutely necessary effort was made by several bodies to clarify these issues. I would like to stress that the foreign authorities will continue to work to expose foreigners applying for residence on the basis of false nationality or identity, or have resided on the basis of false nationality and identity. The Ministry has therefore made it clear to the persons concerned and their lawyers that the persons concerned must demonstrate their Pakistani and Thai identity and nationality by providing genuine passports of nationality. The original deadline has not expired for all, as the terms and time limit have been notified to the individual in his own letters sent at different times. I can assure you, however, that the cases are continually being followed up. I want to inform the Storting appropriately about the follow-up of breast-feeding. I can already inform you that several people who are covered by the projects have contacted the Ministry and confirmed that they will provide genuine passports of nationality by contacting the current embassy here. This applies mainly to Thai citizens. Those persons have been granted an extension of the time limit for the provision of passports. A new initial authorisation will be granted for the provision of passports. In other words, the persons concerned are not given back their previous permits, as they were granted on the basis of false assumptions. Any assessment of the criminal liability to provide materially incorrect information in accordance with Section 47 of the Foreign Affairs Act is attached to the prosecution authority. The current guidelines of the Riksadvokat are that violations of the Foreign Affairs Act should to a large extent be resolved by the administrative response of the foreign authorities. We do this by assessing the authorisation, revocation and expulsion of the person concerned. It's done in these cases. The Ministry does not intend to follow up on notifications in the cases that are being resolved through the breast-feeding period. I would also like to stress that the persons covered by the breast-feeding period have been informed that breast-feeding applies only if they provide Pakistani and Thai passports of nationality. If this condition is not met, the persons concerned will have to return to their country of origin. With reference to the minority's proposal to convert breast-feeding, it is necessary for me to point out that the case also has a legal side. The period of amnesty has given the persons concerned a prior undertaking that a residence permit will be granted if they fulfil the conditions laid down in the breast-feeding period. Therefore, the persons concerned have a legitimate expectation of obtaining an authorisation. And as I mentioned earlier, several people have prepared to meet the condition that needs to be met in order to be covered by breast-feeding. It is also important to note that general administrative rules in this area set clear limits on the possibility of re-establishing commitments at a later stage. It is generally assumed that the reasons for conversion must be significantly more burdensome than those for maintenance. The main argument against breast-feeding is that it can give bad signal effects. However, the adverse effects in this context have been reduced by the fact that breast feeding has clarified that this is a one-off event, that it includes a limited number of persons and that specific conditions have been imposed. I believe that the consideration of those covered by the breast-feeding period must weigh more heavily. A transformation will affect a number of individuals who have already received a legitimate expectation that a residence permit will be granted. The residence permit is essential for those concerned, as it is the basis for their future existence in Norway. On this basis, I am therefore of the opinion that the contingent amnesty given should not, or can be, converted. Having said that, I would repeat and stress that the work against organized crime, and also human smuggling, is still a priority for this government. These questions are constantly being worked on, and I can mention that Norway, among other things, has played a central role in the so-called Budapest process, which is a broad European cooperation with a view to dealing with illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. I would also like to make the following comments on the matter: There is nothing in this case that means that the foreign authorities should relax in the verification work they carry out in general in foreign matters. It will be continued with the strength to which these matters refer. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we currently have new rules for the withdrawal of a residence permit. We have this in mind, and I will return information about this in an appropriate way as soon as possible. There is also information raised during the debate that I need to be corrected. It was claimed by the representative Hernæs that as Minister of Transport with a living commitment I had expressed my opinion on this matter. That's not right. I was not a Minister of Transport in September 1997, but it is quite correct that as a candidate for the Stortinget, I spoke with that commitment. So there is the representative Hernæs quite right, but it was not the Minister for Transport who did it. The representative might say that on the side of the matter, I meet myself in the door, and I am quite clear about that when you present the matter as it is. I would like to stress that what is the duty of the authorities when dealing with a case like this is to deal with the obligations arising from having a stay in Norway, and the starting point for this. The starting point for this is documents that need to be identifiable. People may have to use false identity to get here for the first time when they come to Norway, but they have to make the authorities aware of this. This is what the rules of the game must be if you are to handle it properly. It has also been suggested in the course of the debate that the case should have been promoted because former government representatives who are now members of the government should have created a commitment. My starting point in this case is the arguments put forward in the case. The long residence, the long time without effective implementation of decisions or repatriation are the real arguments that underlie breast-feeding, and breast-feeding is given under the conditions that I am now sketching, and that are otherwise known to the committee through the committee's proceedings, as I have also clarified by the post that I have held here today. It is on that basis that we handle the matter, and there can be no other basis in the case. I would also like to say that an obligation to relate to the insight you have in a matter, and I believe that I have done so at the position I have taken at the post that I have now held.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e967	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e970	There are two questions I would like to ask to the Dørum Council of State – the first in connection with Aud-Inger Aure saying that it was basically a good vaccination training to come to the department and see such things from that side. I don't want to say that Dørum needs the same adult training in relation to this, but in the light of the criticism that came during the trial in many ways when we had Minister of Justice from the Labour Party, I am pleased with the way the Howe expressed this in a reply, that it may prove useful to be a little less bastant and in many ways a little more general when one from the Stortinges side speaks out in individual matters. But as the Council of State is forced to go into the individual issues, and for that reason I will ask if the Council of State is in agreement with what Mr. Thorbjørn Jagland said in Stortinget the time he was prime minister, that one is forced to have a refugee policy that is the same, and that one must have a regulation in order to pursue a human policy. The second question is whether the Council of State is at what he said now, because in an article in the Evening Post on 16 March this year, it is wondered whether he will be able to go in and give 'unconditional amnesty' to these families — especially the Gholam family — with the background that they have problems in providing passports that show where they come from. As the Council of State, he is also forced to enter into and take a concrete position on this issue. He said in his statement that this decision would not be able to be reversed. I hope he stands by it and will confirm it again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e977	I think I choose to interrogate that a representative – based on a speculation in a newspaper, and not on what I have said – asks a question as to whether what I have said from the pulpit is serious or not. I think that's what I choose to interrogate. Let me say it so dry and simple that I have made an article – and I have. In the general context of the first question, whether it is important to have rules of play, I fully agree that it is. I expressed it very clearly when we had the so-called babysitting issue for treatment. I have said that I want to comply with the rules of the game, and if I should feel at some point that I want to do something that goes beyond the powers I believe I have, I will make sure that the Storting properly gets a chance to sign out those limits – because that is the neat way you have to work. I'm going to work that way, and I've given up to several examples. I'm not going to repeat them now, but let me just remind you of one of them: I have e.g. got the insight, when I now sit as a state councillor, that in order to get to Norway as a specialist, you need to have higher education and also meet the requirement that you only get here if you actually do a particular job that no one else wants. Of course, such an insight will, of course, make me act – and perhaps in a somewhat different direction. I have then received the insight that the Council of State, just as I have in the matter we are dealing with today, has received the insight that came from my post – and that makes me stand by that post. I would like to repeat what I have said earlier from the Parliamentary Chair, and I intend to act accordingly. When the representative then asks whether living people occasionally meet themselves at the door, I can confirm that it is a general wisdom of life that this is so. It's only when you finish your thinking that you no longer meet yourself at the door.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e990	I hope the Minister of Justice met himself and met a nice person. Otherwise, I just want to say that as I perceived the post from the Council of State, it tells us clearly that he has read the position of the Committee of Justice and, as far as I could understand, is fully aware of what is there. Let me also tell you in this general exchange of incestuousness in life that even the Evening Post you can't always trust. That quote from the Evening Post, to which I referred, was as follows: «Hazards must remain in Norway». «Minister of Transport Odd Einar Dørum makes an emotional appeal in support of the Gholam family on 11 September 1997...». So I notice that the evening post can't be read without having to connect some historical data, for example. relative to when this government acceded. However, when I have taken the floor, it is to ask whether the Council of State is willing to be a little more concrete in relation to the further reading. He said that for some of the people concerned the deadline has not expired. If I understand that correctly, it has to mean that for some people it's out. I understand that the Council of State does not want to stand on the pulpit of the Storting and tell in detail about the individual treatment, but I would appreciate a little more detail on what time perspective the Council of State sees itself here. When will he – according to Stortingen’s wording, and as he himself said – properly inform the Storting about the end of these matters?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1011	The quote from the Evening Post mentioned by the representative Hernæs could perhaps give rise to some reflections on privacy and data security in the media – but I think we should leave it. I guess it should also be a good idea to check the primary sources. The representative, and others, have done so far – it has been expressed by this pulpit. The representative said he didn't want me to go into detail on administrative practices. No, I don't intend to do that either. What I have said about the handling of this matter, I have said in my article. I have said that we follow the individual matters, and I have said that as soon as the matters are concluded, I will inform the Storting appropriately about this. That's what I want to say about the matter now. And if I was really going to go further in this, I would do direct proceedings from the pulpit of the Storting, and it would be to break some of the constitutional divisions, which the representative Hernæs had in a precise and tidy way in his opening post. After he had otherwise expressed his views on the reality of the matter, he also had a very precise and correct view of where the responsibility lies and how responsibility should be exercised by those who have it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1018	I would like to commend the Council of State for a clean article. My feeling is also that the Council of State has both taken inwards and understands the criticism that a collective committee is travelling. However, there was particularly one sentence in the articles of the Council of State in which I noticed. I believe the Council of State said something such as that this decision should neither be nor can be reversed, and I would therefore like to make some comments on the difference between ‘should’ and ‘may’. The letter from Stortinget's administration on the formal possibilities of Stortinget is crystal clear. It says, among other things. the following: ‘We cannot see that there are particular considerations in this area that require the exercise of the government’s powers independently of the Storting, and we assume that there are no special points of reference in the Foreign Affairs Act to interpret it so that the Parliament cannot give instructions on how to practice it’. In addition, it says: ‘That is why, in the constitutional relationship between the Grand Duchy and the Government, there should be no obstacle to the Grand Duchy’s taking such a decision as has been proposed in the Doc. 8:25.’ So there is access for the Stortinget to vote for the proposal that the Progress Party has raised today. But there's equally good reason why we shouldn't, and then we're involved in administrative law. It is clear that the Government against these people who have received an offer also has an administrative obligation to stand by it. And that's essentially what the Big Thing here bows to, while it's crystal clear that there's hardly a series of cheers that come with the decision that the Government has made here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1035	A number of representatives have noticed that I have read the committee setting. You have to do that as a government council, it was just supposed to be missing. But I have first and foremost read the letter from the Ministry of Justice to the Committee, which went from a member of the government of a government I sat in. I would behave quite wonderfully if I suddenly were to operate private practices as a member of the government. It is that the government speaks with the voice it expresses to the Storting. In this way, of course, I feel obliged by the history of the case, which has also been expressed in the case. Of course, as far as my assessments of ‘can’ and ‘should’ were concerned, they were not linked to any polemics against the opinion in the case, it took its basic principle that the majority of the committee said that it was within the sphere of competence of the Government. However, they were primarily linked to my assessment of administrative provisions, i.e. the reasoning such as: The representative Hove has previously been involved, and as I think it was my duty to go into the case as part of the procedure when I, as the Council of State, would comment on the various aspects of the case. That was my background to use the words, and nothing attached to what I understood aroused the representative's wonder.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1042	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3297]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1058	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be divided into 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of replication after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1065	There is not much time at all to comment on this matter. As case spokesman, I refer you to the plural setting, which is about to reject Document No. The 8th proposal from the Progress Party and the Right. I'll tie a few words to that. The proposal must be considered a political mark from these two parties. When the Storting twice a year has the possibility to both adopt and change the promises in known budget lines, it is an unfortunate signal to send out that the Storing between these budgetary processes that we have, in December of the national budget and in the revised budget in June, may receive additional appropriations. If we introduce such a practice, it could mean that everyone can go in and affect the budget. This will lead to an unfair budgetary treatment of known items, which will in reality be dealt with twice a year. The plural position is about rejecting the proposal, and indicates that we can take up the police budget for consideration in the revised national budget. The revised national budget now lies here in the Stortingen for handling, and it is natural that one looks at these items in connection with it. From the Labour Party's point of view, I would like to signal that we want to assess the judicial budget in relation to the resources available at any given time, so that we can get a holistic assessment and in that way say that we are using funds in a way that benefits all parties involved in the criminal justice process. We will also do so in the context of the revised national budget, which will be discussed during June. With this in mind, as a case-by-case spokesman, I would recommend that Document No. The 8 proposal is rejected, as it could be included in the revised national budget in June.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1080	Last year, the government presented one of the worst budgets for the police in many years. No funds were put into a single new position, and at the same time the operating budgets were greatly reduced. The Progress Party proposed an increase of 290 million in its alternative state budget. kr in relation to today's proposal. It was in accordance with the wishes of the Police Joint Union. The Budgetary Options of the Progress Party were voted down by Stortinget. Subsidy, the Progress Party then had to vote in favour of the Government's proposal, but it was only accepted after the government parties had agreed to increase the police budget by 100 million. kr. The alternative was to vote for the Workers' Party's proposal, which would give 100 million. Less for the police. These 100 million. Of course, extra was not enough to prevent the problems envisaged by the Progress Party when we drew up our own draft budget. Today, the situation is critical in most police districts. We are constantly getting a message about police officers who have to send out a circular saying that it should not be moved out after noon. 16 unless life and health are at stake. The police officer in Bergen wrote a letter to the Ministry of Justice on 3 March saying that the budget deficit means that there is not enough money for petrol for patrol cars, maintenance of cars, prisoner transport, repair of the police boat and necessary overtime. This is a situation which the Minister of Justice should also understand is unsustainable. It does not provide the public with the service they should be entitled to, and of course there is no possibility of stepping up the fight against organized crime. In Bergen, the chief of police has to solve the problem by keeping 12 to 16 vacancies out of the year. Nor is it sustainable if we politicians are serious when we stress the need for patrolling policemen in the streets to prevent violence and other types of crime. It's a crisis situation at our political chambers. Then crisis solutions and power of action are required. In this situation, unfortunately, the Ministry of Justice has chosen to do nothing. That is why the Advance Party and the Right propose additional appropriations. Unfortunately, it seems that the government parties and the new Minister of Justice are still showing total paralysis in the fight against crime. The proposal to resolve the acute crisis through the necessary additional appropriations does not receive a majority, and the revised national budget proposes a further reduction in police resources instead of the increase that many had hoped for. The granting of funds for new posts, as the Progress Party and the Right called for to support the budget last autumn, will not be able to obtain money for petrol for the police chief Wegner's cars. During his New Year's speech this year, Prime Minister Bondevik saw the Norwegian people right into their eyes and said that the police should be strengthened. In fact, his policies have led to the opposite. So the next time he holds New Year's speech, the Prime Minister should close his eyes. There's also a reason to ask for the 100 million. kr, which was granted in addition to the Government's original draft budget last year, has been used under the conditions of the budgetary agreement, namely to strengthen operational police work through more resources for operations and new posts. In particular, I'm in doubt about $39 million. kr used within the year’s budget for the implementation of Schengen is within the scope of the adoption of the budget. It may therefore indicate that funds have been taken that should have been used for operational and operational police work and used for Schengen implementation. There is a problem that one will have to come back to in the further work on the revised budget. If that turns out to be the case, there is a clear breach of the budgetary agreement with the Right and the Advance Party and, in my view, is in favour of undermining the confidence of the Government. But as I said, there is a problem that we have to look into in the context of the further follow-up to the revised budget. Finally, I would like to address the proposal in the vote by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1099	The representative Simonsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1102	The Christian People's Party belongs to the majority of the committee, who rejects the proposal to grant 50 million. kr to strengthen the operational budget for the Police and Lone Civil Service Seat. It becomes too unfair to enter into a budgetary debate in one area in the justice sector. When it has to be tightened up, many sectors can feel the need for more money, and they have to say so. As politicians, we should listen and include it in the assessments we are going to make next time we have a budget for consideration. An experienced politician has said that it is important to know the details in order to be able to frame the long lines and frames according to which one should govern. There is something else to go into at the level of detail in order to review the professional assessments underlying this case, because the distribution in the budget is not our responsibility. We don't have the skills to do that either. In addition, we should be humble enough to realize that we can have some holes in the overall overview that are necessary, especially in a department as large as the Ministry of Justice. In addition, it is understood in this Document No. The 8th proposal, to be on the frontier to provide a professional group of special budget negotiators. Both the Right Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Parties were invited to the Department to meet both political leadership and the civil service, where we were given a review of the assessments that were behind the 1999 budget for the Police and National Councils. For some of us, it was a confirmation that the ministry had taken seriously the Committee's and Storting's signals on priorities, and we found no reason to criticize what had been done. However, the representatives Krohn Devold and Simonsen found it necessary to provide a Document No. Eight proposals for 50 million. NOK in addition to the 100 million. kr which was earmarked for the police in the budget agreement between the central parties, the Right and the Progress Party. The agreement was good enough, but it is clear that someone has thought and taken for granted that it was more than what was stated in writing. It appears in the comments. Besides, there's no point in spending time going into such a discussion here and now, because we're soon in a period when we're going to discuss the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1117	I am quite responding strongly to the fact that the representative Åse Wisløff Nilssen characterises the discharge of the budget here of about 50 million. kr as immature. It is permissible to disagree, but this government has distinguished itself particularly by several times proposing additional appropriations in different areas a few weeks after the Storting had taken its budget decision in December. It may not be that when one party proposes an additional allocation, it is tidy, and when other parties propose an additional allocation, it is irrevocable. The rule must be the same for everyone. Secondly, I would like to say that the Right's intention to stand so hard in the negotiations with the Government before Christmas on an additional grant to the police, of course, was that the police should have real free resources to increase their efforts against crime. That's why we were very happy that we got a But as early as January, there were strong reactions from all the police organizations, both the Police Union, the National Association of Police Officials and the Norwegian Lensman team, which proved that the variable operating costs fell by 50 million. There was reason to consider whether the conditions for the budgetary agreement had been followed up. And that's quite right, as it was said: we got a meeting with the ministry, we got a review, and the review showed that the ministry had put up far bigger cuts in the variable operating resources of the government budget proposed, than both the police and the organisations concerned had foreseen. At the same time, the ministry had increased central reserves, i.e. funds held back in the department, by 100 million. kr from the previous year. It was not so strange, therefore, that police organizations wondered about these 100 million. kr was taken from the increase in the police appropriations. We were however documented that this was not the case. The 100 million. kr was kept in increased provisions in the department. The explanation was simply that there had been a greater cut in the variable operating resources of the police than the police had feared and anticipated. The point is that it's not always enough to set up police posts. We also need to follow up with sufficient means of operating to use these positions for an extra effort even when required for people's safety outside normal working hours. When it was then so clearly documented that you actually lack 50 million. kr in order to maintain the level of variable costs last year, in fact the Right believed that this was a bias that the government parties would be interested in correcting. It's this flexibility that allows the local loner and the local policeman to move out of the house at night and make everyday life safe for most people. It is in particular to propose containment options beyond the Ministry of Justice's budgetary framework, but the reason why we chose this item was that this was a post of the Workers' Party as late as in its State budget proposal was willing to remove it altogether. That's why we thought this was a proposal that had the ability to bring together a broad majority. It didn't work that way. But I think that the people of Norway are primarily concerned about meeting their primary needs, and being able to be sure that you get help when you have been exposed to a crime is a primary need. A county industrial fund to subsidise local economic development can be managed in the worst case without it. I am therefore disappointed that there has not been any greater will in the majority to continue the good compromise line before Christmas, and I am also disappointed that the government budget presented, despite the fact that it contains the positions requested by Stortinget, does not contain equivalent resources on the operational side to be able to take full advantage of these positions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1132	I agree with what has been said in the rapporteur's statement, and will just comment briefly on the proposal in Document No. 8:38. At these times, one should not be surprised by attempts at mass destruction and the need for political labelling. What is new this time is that the Right Party and the Advance Party then, until those degrees uncritically add up to an indecent budgetary management with proposals in individual areas, without deviating to a completely necessary overall assessment that follows through a budgetary process. I am very surprised that the Right is in favour of this proposal. Following the last budgetary agreement, the budget of the Ministry was increased by 100 million. I was, along with others. The representatives of the Right and Advance Party, called to a meeting of the Ministry of Justice, in which Secretary of State Solbakken explained the use of these funds. I don't think I'm wrong when I say I realized that right-wing representatives, after some clarification questions, were satisfied with the department's proposal for distribution. On the other hand, the representative Simonsen, not surprisingly, expressed that the concrete allocation would be used for political marking. With regard to the proposal for containment, I am not least surprised that the Right Party and the Advance Party want to weaken the government's efforts in the districts. However, I think it is right to point out that the funds have been proposed from the Regional Coordination Action heading, which is a concrete measure to strengthen the regional dimension of sectoral policy. When we are also aware that an application has been received from county municipalities on the other side of 130 million. kr, and that additional funding has been requested for inter-ministerial projects for 10-20 million. kr, there is little doubt that major expectations are attached to the further work on regional coordination measures. So if the Right and Advance Party proposals were to have a majority, they would have dramatic consequences for the government's efforts in the districts. Finally, I think it is right to recall that we are about to deal with the 1999 revised national budget. The creation of 275 new police posts is proposed, representing a significant rise in the fight against crime. Finally, on the basis of an overall assessment, I am of the opinion that it would not be right in the current budgetary situation to redeploy resources, as proposed by the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1149	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1152	It is true that there were some clarification meetings earlier this year, after the Joint Police Association had been informed about how the police funds for 1999 were intended to be used. On the part of the police, it was reacted very strongly to the fact that, for example, 49 million were spent. For Schengen implementation, while funds for variable expenditure were heavily cut. The Ministry then converted this decision: cut the funds for the Schengen implementation to 15-19 million. kr and increased the police operating budget. When we met with the department, we were informed that these 15-19 million. kr that had been set aside for Schengen implementation was the amount that the original State budget had expected so that these funds could not be removed. In the context of the revised budget, 39 million can be spent. D to Schengen implementation from the already adopted budget for this year, i.e. nearly 20 million. kr more than what we were informed about during the meeting with the department. It looks like you've now spent 20 million dollars. NOK 100 million in addition. kr in the Budget Agreement with the Right and the Progress Party for Schengen implementation and new computer systems, instead of using the funds to strengthen the police operational budget, possibly for new posts. It is important for the Minister of Justice to make this clear before the review of the revised budget in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1159	The situation around the various police districts is precarious. In the past, letters have been deleted from, among others. The police officers in Sunnmøre and Ålesund said that the individual districts of Länsmann had to save money. It is important that people's trust in the police is safeguarded. When the police are in a situation where you lack money, as you have come up today, that you do not see yourself earned or can afford to move out by, for example. Intrusions and problems in using police resources include: to pick up per mille drivers because it is not precarious enough because of the budgetary situation in the individual County of Länsmann – what about people's confidence in the police? A problem is being created because the individual County of Länsmann does not have the means to maintain people's normal sense of justice. It is important that this sector is provided with the means proposed here, so that the ordinary citizen in this country can feel the security that is really needed, and that money for operating costs must be increased significantly. It is regrettable – as I see it – that the police cannot move out, for example. in the event of an infringement, because the budget cannot cover it. Then it is important that the police receive these funds as proposed here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1167	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Food, see page 3298]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1183	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3298]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1199	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3298]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1216	Odelstinget has previously had a long debate on this issue that is raised through this proposal, so I'm not going to spend much time, even if I look at the clock that I have 29 minutes and 50 seconds left. The Progress Party proposed in Odelstinget to remove the system that prevents a criminal from being convicted for all of the criminal acts he commits, when he receives a judgment against them at the same time, and proposed punishment for each case. I was asked why this proposal was necessary. I would like to mention an example that I have been sent after the odelsting debate, which illustrates the issue very well. In January 1998, there was an attempt to light a guy at a cinema in Oslo, Klingenberg Kino, during a performance. The fire was discovered, the suspected perpetrator was arrested, and the audience of course had to leave the cinema – a relatively serious incident, one would believe. Had it developed a fire in a cinema, many human lives could have been lost. 10 months later, the case was closed at the Oslo Police Chamber, and the reporter, Oslo Kinematografer, was informed that the case was decided by order. The justification is as follows: ‘The reason is that the relationship is in addition to other criminal offences and would result in no or only negligible additional punishment.’ A person goes into a cinema during a performance, puts a guy in the toilet, risks taking human life, and the case is hospitalized because it comes in addition to other criminal matters, so that it would hardly result in more punishment. It is in order to prevent such total unfairness that the Progress Party took the initiative to remove this quantum discount in criminal proceedings. It is only to note that the proposal of the Progress Party was voted down by Odelstinget, and that we are now left with a much worse proposal for an assessment, which, of course, is not particularly binding on the ministry to follow up. It can be assessed that there is no basis for that change, and one simply asks to consider a minor adjustment to the unfortunate section 62 of the Penal Code. I have to say, however, that a slight improvement is obviously better than nothing. You have to bring with you the little joys you get, even if they're pretty small. Therefore, once our own proposal is down, the Progress Party will of course vote in favour of this proposal, although, unfortunately, it is far from being good enough. Unfortunately, it was a joyous day for many criminals when the original proposal of the Progress Party was voted down in Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1236	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is late. The President has a goal of finishing up even case No. 13 in the morning meeting, but we'll see how it goes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1239	I can comfort the President that I will not make any long speeches, despite the fact that we did not have the opportunity to take part in the debate on 4 May. I just want to say that we disagree with the signals that it might be appropriate to raise the maximum level of the overall penalty when more crimes have been committed. We think there are completely different things, completely different measures, that are needed to prevent crime. I also refer to the conclusion of the Penitentiary Commission's partial investigation, NOU 1992:23, and hereby informs us that we will not vote for the amendment of this paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1248	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3298]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1264	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3298]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18.ana.ud591e1280	No one has asked for the floor. This morning's meeting is over, and a new meeting will be held at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3299]]
