ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e46	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Hordaland County: Gard Folkvord and Thorbjørn Merkesdal. For Telemark County: Kari Lise Holmberg. Three permit applications are available: from the representative of Mr Fridtjof Frank Gundersen on leave on 10 and 11 May, and from the representative of Mr Jørgen Kosmo on leave from 10 May to 12 May, both in order to take part in the meeting of the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly in Bremen. from the representative of Ms Annelise Höegh on leave from 10 May to 12 May to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Malta Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first and second alternate representatives of Oslo, Anders C. Sjaastad and Merete Agerbak-Jensen are currently abroad and therefore cannot meet under the leave of the representative Annelise Höegh. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershu County: André Kukkestad. For Oslo: Frode Helgerud. For the Westfold state: Karin Lian.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e105	André Kukkestad, Frode Helgerud and Karin Lian are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e115	A number of structural reforms in the health sector are now gradually entering an implementation and consolidation phase. In this situation, the time has come to focus more on key health choices and dilemmas. These concern both everyday health professionals’ meetings with patients and policy-making at large. A number of balances and priorities should be better anchored in overall value and strategy choices. It may relate to the risk to a sorting society, to the possibilities of technology and to the limits of healthcare, and to a stronger element of market forces. This also applies to prevention, which from the day one has been high on the agenda of this government. These important value issues will be central to a separate communication on health policy at the turn of the millennium, as presented by the Government until the autumn. In this public health service, the general health status of the population is more than the provision of services, and prevention is more than curative work, which will be the focus of attention. The technical basis for the presentation is mainly provided in the 1999 Public Health Report, prepared by the State Institute for Public Health on behalf of the Ministry of Social and Health. The general state of health and life of the population are related to much more conditions than the use of resources in healthcare. However, political attention is easily captured by the acute. It is demanding to give priority to what may happen, possibly in the long run. Preventive and health-promoting work is in this sense more ‘invisible’. It doesn't make it any less important to prioritize this. The World Health Organisation defines health as ‘a state of complete physical, social and mental well-being, and not just the absence of sickness or Lyche’. This definition is frequently criticised; it is seen as unrealistic and as a contribution to an increasing ‘medication’ of society as a whole. However, it points towards something significant. While what we call health care, is a system that essentially relates to disease, health can be considered something more than just absence than disease. Health is not only about risk factors and suffering, but also about individual resources in everyday life and about resistance to physical and mental stress. Our ability to mastery depends, among other things, on: together with our relationship with our closest, and to what extent life is perceived to be meaningful and manageable. Such relationships, in turn, are linked to how we choose to decorate society. This is about conditions beyond what most of our health services have as their daily responsibility. It is about personal responsibility, and it is about overall political responsibility. Although the health sector will have an important driving role in disease prevention work, it is now clear in its place that it is not alone responsible for what I would call ‘the major health policy’. This is a social responsibility that requires cooperation and interaction between many different public services, the private and voluntary sectors, and not least the efforts of the individual. The impact of health status is to some extent influenced by instruments under political control. Examples are fees that affect diet and drug use. At local level, the Law on Planning and Building can and should be used as a tool to improve the state of health and reduce the likelihood of disease developing. It is important that elected bodies and administrative authorities at all levels of government make more active use of the possibilities available to seek the health consequences of decisions taken. The possibilities contained in today's legislation will be further discussed in the notification I have just notified. So let's look at the health picture at the millennial shift. During this century, life expectancy at birth has risen sharply, with over 24 years for women and 21 years for men. While for women there has been a positive trend for all ages throughout the hundred years, during the period 1950-1975 we had a negative trend for adult men, especially related to the increase in death due to heart disease. At the same time, we record men approaching women's lifetimes in the last 10-15 years. Well a quarter of the total increase in life expectancy in the 1900s can be explained by decreases in infant mortality. We can also record here in the country a marked decline in infant mortality in the last ten years, a halving compared to the 1980s. This is particularly related to the reduction of creep mortality. This is, of course, joyous. At the same time, we need to look into the fact that we are no longer entirely at the top of the world in terms of life expectancy in Norway. While in 1970 we were at the top among women and in third place among men, we have since passed by several countries. Life expectancy is now lower in Norway than in countries such as Japan, France and Sweden. Several of the Mediterranean countries are taking us back or have already passed us. Among the health problems that most often cause death, development is complex. The mortality rate of accidents and cardiovascular diseases has clearly decreased in the last 10 years. This accounts for less than half of the deaths. Year-on-year studies also show a reduction in the proportion of cardiovascular diseases reported by both men and women. However, the number of new cancers is increasing, even when one adjusts for changes in the age range of the population. If we look at the suffering we have to cope with more, there are two major groups in particular who dominate. Nearly half report a muscle and skeletal disorder, while the incidence of psychiatric disorders is estimated to be 15-20 pst. in a normal population. This will mean that about 800,000 people suffer from a mental illness to a milder or more severe degree here in the country. It is uncertain whether there has been an increase in the incidence of these disorders in the last 10-20 years. However, they dominate within the disease-based social security benefits. Individuals with musculo-skeletal disorders included every third disability pensioner in 1997 and accounted for more than half of the paid sick pay days in addition to the employer’s period. At the beginning of 1998, between four and five unretired persons had a mental illness as their main diagnosis. There has been a alarming increase in new unretired people with musculoskeletal disorders in recent years, and especially among middle-aged women. The proportion of new fatal cases with psychiatric disorders has also increased, and there has been a particularly large increase in the very youngest age groups. Let me also mention a particular phenomenon, namely bone brittleness. In fact, Norway is among the countries with the highest incidence of femoral, joint and vertebral fractures, and the number after the age of 50 has increased steadily in recent decades. The consequences are great: high excess mortality, reduced functional capacity and dependence. It is one of the most resource-intensive disorders in the health system. However, we still have a lack of knowledge of causality and current instruments. The government is therefore now focusing on research and development in this area. A fact-finding and status report is being prepared to provide the basis for the further work of health authorities and proposals for an overall strategy plan for prevention and treatment. In the 1995 health survey, seven out of ten replied that they had more permanent diseases or disorders. But if we generally report very many diseases or disorders, that doesn't mean we're a suffering people. Eight out of ten actually assess their own health as good or very good. This may partly reflect the fact that some illnesses or disabilities are not considered to be health disorders and that people’s perception of health is about something far more than the absence of disease. Only every five Northers, even if we're counting on the oldest, report disability. I think it is important to note this at a time when the media is increasingly focusing on hazard signals, risk factors and ‘unhealth’. The vast majority of people in this country actually feel that they have good health. Let me say a little bit about social differences in health. A wide range of studies have shown that the state of health follows a social step-by-step pattern. The higher the social position, the lower the mortality rate, the self-reported disease and the consequences of illness. Figures from the Norwegian health and living conditions surveys also show several times the incidence of, for example, reported cardiovascular diseases and mental problems in the group with the lowest income compared to those with the highest income. There is little evidence to suggest that social health inequalities have decreased in recent decades. In other words, the differences seem to persist, even though both the picture of the disease and the cause conditions have changed. While poor health in the past had an obvious connection with social distress, it is now more difficult to explain the same inequalities. But we know, among other things: that there are social differences in the extent to which we are exposed to physical, psychosocial and material conditions that can adversely affect health. We also know that social differences in living habits play a role, that is. the relationship to diet, alcohol, tobacco and exercise. The latter are aspects which relate in particular to the risk of cardiovascular disease. Research suggests that social health differences in Norway and Sweden are more attributable to social differences in cardiovascular mortality than in other European countries. It is necessary to improve the knowledge base in this area, both on causes and on developments over time. In parallel, I will consider more targeted prevention measures that can help balance health inequalities. At the same time, balancing measures in other areas of life, and in particular those targeting particularly vulnerable groups, could have a positive effect on health as well. The last thing the government will come back to in the upcoming big-time message on the balancing of living conditions. So a little bit about sex and health. As mentioned above, women live the longest, but at the same time report more health problems. More women than men report persistent diseases and diseases that significantly affect their daily lives. In addition, women have higher medical consumption and more contacts with doctors and other primary health care professionals. They are in the majority of disease-based social security statistics. The combination of older lives and higher registered morbidity among women is not easy to interpret. The self-reported health differences may be related to biological differences, differences in living conditions and other living conditions components, such as occupation, income and education. A recent public inquiry into women’s health in Norway shows that diseases and plagues have different meanings and consequences for women and men, and they need to be met and treated differently. It is strongly argued that there is a mismatch between the health problems often reported by women and the attitudes and understandings of the health services to assist them. The investigation is now in wide consultation. However, follow-up work is already under way to ensure that different impacts on women and men are routinely assessed in priority and decision-making processes. Better data base and analyses are also needed to understand the relationship between the living conditions of women and men and the health of men. I would therefore like to take the initiative to review statistical and decision-making systems in order to assess whether the gender perspective is adequately respected. A single disorder can often be caused by a wide range of so-called risk factors and a single risk factor can affect several different disorders or diseases. The risk factors, which I've been dealing with, can be related to social development and social conditions. In the following, however, I want to focus on people's habits and behaviour more specifically. The so - called lifestyle diseases have a very strong impact on health. And there are in particular four areas that can contribute to disease and suffering, or to several good years of life for many of us, depending on how we set up our lives: it's our relationship with tobacco, diet, alcohol and physical activity. This is also a key area of the Government’s public health policy. According to the World Health Organization, every three deaths in the world in 20 years will be caused by smoking. 500 million of us will die of smoking. Tobacco will kill more than car accidents, AIDS, tuberculosis, murder and suicide together. Tobacco use is one of the main risk and cause factors for cardiovascular diseases and for respiratory and pulmonary diseases. Tobacco causes about 30 pst. of cancer cases in this country. In Norway, the third party of the adult population still smokes daily. For a long time, we were regarded as a precursor country in terms of tobacco harm prevention, both in terms of legislation and in terms of information. However, since 1980 many Western European countries have seen reductions in the proportion of daily smokers, while there have been minor changes in Norway. The Government will do something about this. We will be campaigning in the future to reduce the share of daily smokers and of-and-smokers, to help make children and young people smoke-free and to develop measures that can better protect us from passive smoking. Internationally, we will be active in the follow-up of the Tobacco-Free Initiative to the World Health Organisation. The government will follow up its initiative on different fronts and with different instruments in Norway. The appropriations for tobacco injury prevention have doubled with a view to more targeted and effective work. Children and young people are a central target group, the school — and non-smoking school settings — an important arena. We must now make the adult population aware of the function of role models and motivations and give them help to stop smoking. Non-smoking should become the norm for children and young people. Recent studies show that approximately one million workers smoke daily or occasionally here in the country. That is why I would like a special effort to be made by this group in working life to provide smoke-removal services in the workplace and by working for more completely smoke-free jobs. So for diet and physical activity. Changes in dietary composition can explain a large part of the happy decline in the mortality of heart attacks over the past 20 years in this country. At the same time, continued adverse composition of the diet contributes to the development of, among others, cancer, osteoarthritis and type II diabetes. The main nutritional challenges in the future are to reduce the consumption of hard fat by one third, double the consumption of fruit and vegetables, increase the consumption of fish and halve the intake of salt. The composition of the diet team depends on the choice of the individual. As consumers, we need knowledge to make informed choices. Information is therefore an important strategy for changing attitudes. At the same time, more focused efforts will be made, including: in school, which is the main venue for reaching out to children and young people. The third priority area is better data on Norwegian diet development. Norway is in a favourable situation as regards the presence of most foodborne diseases. However, there is a great deal of focus on the use of, for example: additives, genetically modified food and food irradiation. This is often presented as the dangerous elements of the diet. There is therefore reason to stress that the overall composition of the diet is of far greater importance for Norwegian public health. At the same time, we must meet the new challenges. With the increasing internationalisation of food trade, preparedness has been strengthened. Food legislation is currently subject to review with a view to simplification and efficiency. The 1997 Year Survey shows that about half of the Norwegian population exercise regularly. But if we are ‘born with skiing on our legs’ and perceive ourselves as a moving nation, there is also a significant proportion of passive. One in four states that they never train or exercise. Half perform less than three hours of light physical activity per week. We know little about the overall evolution over time, but we have alarming information about the level of physical activity of children and young people. Children in Norway are less physically active than before. When we know at the same time that physical activity reduces mortality and disease risk, it is important to influence exercise habits. It is assumed that 30-40 pst. of all cancer cases can be avoided with better diet and exercise. Nutrition and physical activity are areas that have a lot in common. Therefore, in order to increase the effort for physical activity, the Government has recently established its own Council for Nutrition and Physical Activity. In the National Cancer Plan, 1998–2003, 100 million are earmarked. to strengthen local involvement in the prevention field. The State Tobacco Injury Council and the State Nutrition and Physical Activity Council have been significantly strengthened by means of increased efforts for healthy diets, smoking freedom and exercise. It is essential here that plans are reflected in action at local level, and interaction with non-governmental organisations becomes important in the future. So, for alcohol use. At a time when many media headlines about the alleged health benefits of alcohol have been published, it is necessary to state the following: ==References== 1 500 annual deaths can be related to alcohol use in this country. Deaths among drug users are increased due to liver diseases, acute deaths, accidents, suicides and killings. We know that alcohol use is risky in many situations, such as pregnancy and the use of drugs.We know that there is a link between alcohol use and some heart diseases, liver diseases, diseases of the nervous system, infectious diseases, transmission of infectious sex diseases, some blood diseases and accidents. Recent alcohol research also focuses on the relationship between alcohol use and the increased risk of some cancers, among others. breast cancer in women. In other words, alcohol represents a very serious health problem and a major health challenge. It is true that some studies suggest that moderate alcohol consumption may have a potential for protection against cardiovascular disease, myocardial infarction, especially in middle-aged and elderly men. However, such studies must be related to what we already know. If, under certain conditions, small quantities of alcohol for some groups can be anti-infarct prevention, alcohol use cannot be considered as a health-promoting dietary factor. It is not a kind of ‘vitamin’ that contributes to the reduction of morbidity and better health among most people. We have far more effective prevention measures against cardiovascular disease. Very many research findings have shown that overall health damage depends on the total consumption of the population. There is a close link between the number of alcohol problems and how common it is to drink elsewhere in society. Therefore, in a preventive health policy perspective, it is essential to keep average consumption at the lowest possible level. As average consumption is lower, there are also fewer chronic alcohol users in Norway than in many other European countries. The government will take advantage of alcohol policy measures that effectively help to keep the average consumption of alcohol at the lowest possible level. We also need broad mobilisation against the use of drugs in many contexts, and it is important for me, as Minister of Health, to contribute to a social debate on alcohol use and health consequences. Although we know a lot, there is also a need for more knowledge. I will therefore take the initiative to further document the links between alcohol use and health and the impact it has on the use of resources in healthcare. Early in the 1990s, central authorities focused on some of the health problems that we rarely die of, but which affect many and lead to extensive disability and suffering. Four prevention areas were specifically identified. Common to these are complex causes, the need to strengthen the knowledge base and the need for simultaneous prevention efforts at many sectors and levels of administration. A key instrument has been cross-ministerial action plans that outsource the course and make responsibilities visible. Children and young people are the main target groups, because living habits and mastering strategies are shaped in growth. I'm referring to summary: the action plan on prevention of stress diseases 1994-98 the action plan on prevention of accidents 1997-2002 the action plan on prevention of asthma, allergies and indoor climate diseases 1998-2002 the Government action plan on reducing drug use 1998-2000 the action plan on prevention of psychosocial problems and mental disorders, in particular reinforced by the Government's plans to step up mental health. Let me add that psychosocial problems deal with the interaction between people and therefore also values and human vision. Loneliness and lack of closeness and care are likely to be a major health problem than both health services and society have recognised. At the same time, this is something that we can all do, and it never has to be reduced to just one public problem. The fundamental need for human beings to be seen, to be loved, can never be met by political decisions. It must leap out of human hearts that take responsibility for themselves and others. In addition to the previously designated areas of activity, which are no less important in a new millennium, I will mention some other key areas of government prevention and health promotion policy. Firstly, we are now working on a National Action Plan on Environment and Health, based on a declaration signed in Helsinki in 1994 by all the Member States of the European region of the World Health Organisation. The Norwegian Action Plan is an important step towards increased cooperation between the departments concerned and underlying agencies and is to be presented at a Ministerial Conference on Health and Environment in June. Secondly, efforts are being made to combat health stations and school health services, which provide unique opportunities for health promotion and prevention work for the whole population of children and young people and their families. A high level of digestion must be ensured here by maintaining an offer that meets everyone. In addition to the resources provided through the mental health escalation plan, we will focus here on disseminating good practices and practices and strengthening the knowledge base. A third area of high priority for the Government is the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion, where a separate action plan was presented in March this year. In 1999, a total of 20 million were allocated. kr for this – the largest allocation for this purpose ever. The main objective is a continued reduction in the number of abortions and the rate of abortion. Efforts are specifically aimed at preventing unwanted pregnancy, but emphasis is also placed on the prevention of abortion by ensuring good information procedures and by ensuring a good provision of guidance to pregnant women. A fourth area concerns antibiotics, which represented a revolution in the fight against disease and death caused by the infectious agents: the reduced incidence, sequelae, mortality and spread of infection. This situation may now be threatened. Microbes have become resistant due to increased consumption of antibiotics, and an accelerating increase in incidence is seen internationally. Although the use of antibiotics in Norway has declined in recent years and we are in a more favourable situation than many other countries, including the United Kingdom. due to good measures put in place, there is still an unnecessary level of consumption. A working group has recently presented an action plan to improve knowledge of use, occurrence and causes, a better system of monitoring and statistics, and information and vaccination measures. Government rates in year 5 million. to implement measures under this plan. A fifth and last area I want to mention is HIV/AIDS prevention. The situation in Norway is stable and the number of people infected is low in relation to what was previously a cause for fear. Policies have also been implemented in this area through national action plans, and the third is completed by the end of 2000. In order to provide a better basis for future policy-making, I have taken the initiative to carry out a comprehensive independent evaluation of the HIV/AIDS prevention strategies. A common feature of most of the prevention areas mentioned is that local settings and municipalities will have a key role to play. Although there is a high level of positive local activity, health promotion and disease prevention are not high enough. A public limited sample has provided an inquiry into public health work in municipalities, which is now being consulted. In addition to disease prevention, the sample pays particular attention to the health-promoting dimension, i.e.: efforts to increase the health and social resources of the population. The investigation will be followed up in the paper on value choices in health policy, which I will promote before the turn of the year. In conclusion, let me point out that priority problems arise easily between prevention and treatment and care. Some say that we can only run prevention when we have solved urgent problems, such as the capacity and availability of hospitals. Prevention priorities may also be difficult because of statistical risks and future disorders. However, as a society, we should pursue a policy that also takes responsibility for future needs and tries to reduce future suffering. This is why the prevention work as a red thread goes through the health plans presented by the Government in the last year. It is ideal that safe knowledge should be the basis for the measures adopted and implemented also in the prevention and health promotion work. We should know and be able to do as much as possible to do the right things and to do things the right way. In a number of areas, for example: with regard to the effectiveness of vaccination, there is a high level of safe knowledge, which is used in the planning of measures. However, the knowledge requirement is most easily satisfied where the causal relationship is clear. For some of the main public health problems, such as: Musculoskeletal disorders, mental problems and asthma/allergies are complex and partly unknown. At the same time, it is important that we do not become paralysed by a lack of knowledge in so far important areas. We need to take action as soon as the knowledge base is solid enough to deal with recommendations and advice. In order to raise the level of knowledge, more than one front has to be invested. Firstly, it is necessary for our own research here in the country to produce new knowledge on, among other things. the effects of different prevention instruments within a Norwegian reality. Own research will also make international research results more accessible at home. Secondly, a tighter design and more systematic evaluation of action and action plans initiated in this field may be necessary. Thirdly, knowledge of the health situation and development must reach the public. The new living conditions surveys, which will focus more frequently on health conditions, can contribute to this. In addition, the State Institute for Public Health, on behalf of the Ministry, is developing a Norwegian Health Indicator System to provide a continuous and comprehensive overview of health conditions, diseases and conditions affecting health. The aim is for the system to operate from the year 2000. This is part of a major European work, where Norway is at the forefront. The dissemination of knowledge and the impact of attitudes must be complemented by other influence measures. However, trying to influence other people, both individuals and groups, is associated with major ethical challenges. It is a leadership responsibility to take the lead, but the influence must nevertheless have a fundamental social acceptance. Therefore, health promotion and prevention must always be based in the democratic institutions of society, building on knowledge, ethical reflection and discussions covering as much of the population as possible. Finally, let me point out that an increasing pressure on the consumption of healthcare can reflect that we define and manage disease and plague differently from before. On the one hand, increasing health care consumption is linked to the weathering of public and social networks and a subsequent need for professional help. At the same time, health seems to occupy an increasingly central place in people's consciousness and a more dominant place in the mass media. The pattern of action against disease may be changing, and the threshold for seeking professional help is lowered. Fear of disease can be an increasing problem. Ageing and death are less recognised as a natural part of life itself. I would therefore warn against the health service being addressed for an increasing number of life's problems. Nor should unrealistic expectations be created as to what healthcare can accomplish. In my view, there is reason to strongly warn against the danger of increasing ‘medication’, which places a disease perspective on an increasing number of the small and large problems of life. Combating this would in itself be health-promoting. A growing commitment to disease, symptoms and avoidance of risk could in itself narrow the life cycle and reduce the joy of life in the population. It is still as it is said in the ancient wisdom of the Scriptures: “Rejoice in the heart brings good health.”
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e264	The President will propose that the Minister of Health’s statement on public health be discussed at a later meeting — and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e279	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 3148]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e293	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e304	The main point of view of the Council of State in terms of governance policy is the question of democracy. The democratic idea is based on human fundamental interest, participation and self-government with a view to influencing their own working and living conditions. I'm glad of this angle. A well-functioning administration is an important hub for maintaining and continuing the rule of the people. The Christian People's Party is fundamentally concerned with the norms and criteria to characterize social development. One question that is then important and natural to be busy is: how should the relationship between the individual, civil society and the state be? Although the content of the policy is and will be the most important, it is necessary to take part in the debate on how society should be organised in order to ensure the appropriate means of achieving the objective: local, national and global solidarity both economically and politically. Citizens must feel that the administration takes care of their interests and is at their service. I want to stop a little bit on two themes that the Council of State is dealing with in its distribution: the knowledge and information society and equality. Governments pointed out in the statement that we are at a time difference. We are at full speed into the knowledge and information society. It points out that administration is forward-looking and offensive when it comes to technological challenges. It is important and good because information and communication technologies often characterise our everyday lives in a more comprehensive way. The Christian People's Party is concerned that most people – women and men, young and old – must participate in technological developments, so that the information society does not become an obstacle to living democracy. Governments pointed out that in the future, we are likely to meet a much more resource-intensive and demanding citizen than before. We want a lot more choices. We will be able to retrieve information about rights and obligations more easily. And not least: we want to impose entirely new requirements on administrative services, efficiency and quality. I also believe that active and transparent citizens will expect us to have an open and accessible administration that allows for transparency and participation in the final process. But we also have to make sure that we don't get a gap between those who master the technology and those who don't master it. We have to be observant, so that in the future we do not get a society where fewer people participate in the necessary final processes on the basis that the administration is too complicated to stick to. We will also have a more complex society, where different groups should see well and wide participation in the political process. The action plan to ensure greater recruitment of immigrants to central government is an example of the Government taking this challenge seriously. If we do not close up in a better integration of several groups, democracy could be at risk. Its challenge, as the Council of State calls it, would therefore be to: increase transparency and citizens’ right to transparency and to develop information-based measurable quality requirements for the administration’s modernising, simplifying and streamlining public sector development skills, adaptability and service attitudes of national employees;’;» I am therefore pleased that the Council of State is busy that we must not face the problems tomorrow with solutions of today. We need to make monthly changes and renewal of public administration. It is also very important in a gender equality perspective that one is busy with IT. There are large differences between girls and boys when it comes to IT knowledge. It is particularly the girls' moderate interest to choose IT as a schooling and education policy that is becoming unlucky, because a believer in IT competence will become increasingly important in the labour market in the future. The Christian People's Party wants to get girls on the track much more so that they can be involved and benefit from the IT tool in their work, and that women should be involved in and direct the development of the subject. If we are to close this down, we need measures that are primarily motivated by the values, interests and intentions of the girls to use IT. Because we look at the computer science that is so topical in the sense that it's going to have a big impact on society tomorrow, we see that it's especially important that both sexes have an impact on the development of the subject and its priorities. About one when the Government's 30 pst goal is reached. Women in tenure positions by 2001, there is enough to do in this area. But we are on the right track, and the Council of State's outsourcing points out new ways of moving forward in building good public administration, with competence, adaptability and equality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e343	I agree with the Council of State that we are at a time apart, but then in the form of a value struggle for the welfare community, which is now being challenged by several teams. The challenges arise, among other things: as pressure from private initiatives in areas where the public has been solely concerned with the offers. This pressure doesn't just have negative sides, because the public has to tighten up. However, private initiatives are often characterised by a lack of coherence. They are sector-oriented, and the driving force behind it is often to make money. A market thinking is at stake. The role of politicians will then be to see the context and to assess the impact on the whole and the long-term development of society. However, the greatest challenge for the welfare society today comes from a political and paradoxical enough government based on the parties that, in the last period, the Workers' Party has strongly accused it of not holding fast enough to the established arrangements. The Center Government's conscious choice of the Advance Party as a supporting party is leading us in the wrong direction today, and it scares me that the leader of the Christian People's Party has said that she finds herself well prepared with this support. Also, by focusing on individual solutions in the form of money payments instead of Community solutions, the Government contributes to weakening the welfare community. Then I think about both how we could strengthen the public welfare services of alternative resource use and the consequences of what is being implemented. One thing is indisputable: if the objective is to create justice and equal access to well-being, there is no alternative to today's welfare society anchored in a strong and powerful public sector. The alternative will work well for those who have a lot of money and can buy themselves a private offer. I wish the Council of State on behalf of the Government had emphatically fixed this. The Workers' Party will fight for the future of the welfare society. This will continue to happen in close cooperation with the trade union movement, inter alia. through new solidarity options. And we're also willing to try new solutions. We've always been. At the same time, however, we will stick to the welfare society as a model and its anchoring in a strong public sector, a sector that needs to be given opportunities to create increasingly better offers that are available to absolutely everyone. We want to ensure freedom of choice by making Community solutions more tailored to the needs of individuals, and we want to fight against individualisation that leads us towards a two-part society. Governments shall also contribute to a positive development in value creation, including in the private sector. After all, value creation is the very foundation of any society. For the Workers' Party, it is important that these ideological positions are at the root of the discussion of the future role of the administration, for of course, administration should be our tool for achieving the objectives. ‘Public sector — a matter of trust’ is the heading of the Council of State presentation. Here, the Council of State has a very important point. For all of us who are followers of securing the future of the welfare society, this trust is a prerequisite, because without being able to create trust between the public administration and the individual member of society, we will not succeed. If people do not trust the administration, it will force other offers than the government. Lack of trust will undermine respect for both governance, laws and rules and public planning, and will ultimately threaten our democracy. In the presentation, the Council of State came back to this point when she said: ‘Trust is built by clarifying expectations and then meeting them.’ Yes, it is indeed words in good time from a government that has undoubtedly set Norway's record in a lack of fulfillment of expectations it itself and its parties created. We must not forget that we politicians, whether we are on the Stortinget or on the local government, are also seen as representatives of the administration, which we are aware of. We're the ones who premise the government's work. We are the ones who give priority to resource use, and we are the ones who at the seventh and last are responsible for the coherence of life and learning. Therefore, trust between the voters and us politicians is also vital. If we fail, political contempt is created, and we reduce the degree of participation that we all want to be as wide as possible, which was also an important ingredient in the presentation of the Council of State. On this basis, I strongly support the statement of our new Minister of Administration, but at the same time I take a new recognition from the government parties, because she is so right, so right. When I heard the presentation, I couldn't help but think about which attack the Workers' Party would be exposed if it had come from us. Former Totland State Council became, for example, criticised for over-emphasizing the concept of conversion. The same critics now go, in government position, longer than anyone ever did. Today’s Council of State showed, among other things: developments in government over the last 10 to 15 years have been characterised by a shift towards new forms of public relations and reduced the possibility of direct governance. In view of previous debates here in the Chamber, it is amazing that the only conclusion of the Government is that this development will only continue. I assume that the Central Party too is now satisfied that the Government will not do anything in this area. In the case of conversion, the Council of State said, inter alia: the following: ‘If we do not make significant changes to and renewal of public administration, we are therefore at risk of facing tomorrow’s problems with today’s solutions.’ Here, too, we can see that the government parties have come to a new recognition. Yes, I'm actually sitting with the impression that nothing is stuck anymore. Everyone must be prepared that there will be questions about absolutely everything. All stones shall be lifted at least once. The Council of State points to a number of conditions that need to be addressed – and let me underline: important issues. Things may have to be different, and they may have to be done by others. I say deliberately, maybe, because the statement was almost chemically free of conclusions and answers. Everything hangs in the air in a way, and for management it has to appear as a formidable uncertainty factor. Not least the wording and emphasis on the need for public sector exposure to competition. Yes, one of the headlines of the printed paper item is in fact entitled ‘Open to redefine the role of the country’. The presentation also raised a series of interesting and important questions and issues, but, as I said, gave very few answers besides putting down samples. Governments are also concerned with information technology, that it should benefit everyone, and that new information gaps should not arise between those who can use the technology and those who cannot. She also stressed several times the need for empowerment, another very important issue for which the Workers' Party can give its full support. But unlike the Government, we have proposed that something should be done. We have required the Government to draw up a school quality plan, including: in the case of computers and training of teachers. We have also asked the Government to provide annual state reports to measure whether there will be improvements. We have behind us a ten-year period of bet at the school under the direction of the Workers' Party. This bet must continue. When it comes to identifying issues and ideal assumptions, a lot of people could say that the presentation was good. But as a basis for a meaningful debate on solutions, we should have something far more concrete to deal with. When, for example, the Government expects the administration to actively contribute to the democratic development of society, the Council of State should also say specifically how it sees it to be achieved. It is not enough to point out honorary words such as transparency, participation, service, non-discrimination, quality of service and respect for the individual. Too often we see how difficult it is to live up to these ideals. As regards the concept of openness, for example, it demonstrates that: The Ministry of Local Government has a job to do when it does its utmost to keep secret general guidelines on the allocation of grants for district purposes. Let me make it clear that I had not expected fasitant answers to all the questions, but when the issues arise, we should have some reflections from the Council of State on what solutions she sees as relevant. Here is a concrete example. She says, ‘Better and wider participation in the policy process is also necessary to improve the integration of different groups into an increasingly diverse and complex society.’ I miss the measures – at least in a cross-sectional way. I agree with the Council of State on the need for both integration and to prevent the formation of subcultures and for groups to fall outside the rest of society. I am particularly pleased that the Council of State is concerned about this, because we will be facing one of our greatest challenges here. But what political and practical steps does she see that we should take? Not to ask, what kind of grip will the government take? The answer to this and other questions will be absolutely crucial to the development of society and crucial to winning the fight for the welfare society and the Community solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e399	I must say the statement from the Council of State was very interesting. The progressing party finds clear characteristics in what is in the presentation, on what we have focused on in previous contexts. The government wants a living democracy, where citizens must be able to influence their everyday life and future and actively participate in the decision-making process at all levels of society. Such a goal, of course, creates major challenges with today's governance, which is unwieldy and differently organised. It can also be said that today’s management is ineffective with a mix of roles that in a way have responsibilities powdering as a characteristic. And it's clear that the government through this presentation and all the selections it's put down has made great plans. It is enough to mention an action plan to ensure increased recruitment of immigrants to the central government, the project ‘Norway 2030’, distribution committees, work committees to assess competitive exposure, working group to develop a holistic, user-friendly and reliable system for public obligation and rights information and public service offices. There is some of the things that are mentioned in the statement. The Progress Party has previously called for a comprehensive administrative reform that clarifies the division of responsibilities between those laying down the laws, regulations, regulations and instructions on the one hand, those administering them on the other, those producing the services on the third, and finally those supervising compliance with laws, regulations and administrative provisions on the other. This is of central importance for efficient, modern and fair governance. The point is that today's administration is created without a clear, overall, established model. Management is based on individual disciplines and responsibilities based on an independent historical ad hoc assessment, regardless of what other areas of administration have done to address similar responsibilities issues. Institutions such as a department, a directorate, an agency or a supervisory body may therefore have different responsibilities and tasks from one sector to another. The financing of the work of the various departments, Directorates, departments and supervision also varies greatly from self-financing organisations to organisations fully funded by the expenditure side of the State budget, although there is no justification for the differences. For example, an example of inequalities is: that the Directorate of Labour has clearly defined tasks with its own administration and great independence from its department, while the State's pollution control body acts both as an independent directorate and as a kind of political department. The credit supervision has direct management tasks by establishing rules and guidelines that it itself carries out overseeing. Health supervision also carries out independent directorates/departments policy decisions and supervises, while competition supervision is a purely supervisory body. The legal provisions vary considerably from subject area to subject area. The Progress Party considers that a common model, where the body’s name makes it clear which tasks it has, must be reasonable. Equal tasks and functions for all departments, directorates, agencies and supervisory bodies, with responsibilities between them and in relation to, for example: political authorities and courts must be efficient and essential to ensure transparency and predictability. Furthermore, the Progress Party believes that it would be beneficial to have a regulatory framework for which services a directorate and supervision are to purchase from a market, and what services you can produce yourself. In a fixed management system, all other actors and the population will initially be familiar with which body performs certain tasks and which organisational chain is responsible. The present intransigence could be replaced by an orderly and transparent system, which in itself will strengthen legal certainty and the ability of people to inform themselves in the government and bureaucracy. As I have said before, Norwegian administration is today unbridled, differently organised and inefficient with partial mixing of roles and in a way of powdering responsibilities. The Progress Party therefore believes that an overall administrative reform must be implemented in line with the position of the Modalsli Committee of 15 May 1970 and the minority position of the Progress Party of the Innst. S. No 239 for 1975-76, which was continued by the Progress Party in the Innst. S. No 63 for 1992-93. The main content of such a reform would be to carry out a total reorganisation according to the following principles: A department shall draw up laws, regulations and administrative provisions for an area such as the Secretariat and adviser to the responsible State Council, while implementing a policy adopted, shall be a task for non-ministerial Directorates. A directorate shall be responsible for the day-to-day implementation, follow-up and implementation of the policies adopted and shall develop detailed rules and provisions for those carrying out an activity or producing goods and services and shall deal with concession and authorisation arrangements. A department is responsible for carrying out certain tasks under the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Directorate and the specific tasks assigned to it. The control activities shall be subject to independent supervision ensuring that all actors comply with laws, regulations and administrative provisions. Such State supervision is made self-financing in the case of fees charged to the industry or to the activities under supervision and partly specific sanctions against those who break laws, permits, concessions and regulations, etc. The Progress Party believes that organising according to these principles will result in all departments being given the same type of tasks and responsibilities. All Directorates are given the same type of tasks and responsibilities, all departments are given the same type of tasks and responsibilities, and all supervision is given the same tasks, responsibilities and sanctioning means, either in the field of agriculture, finance, fisheries, nature, environment, oil, transport, trade, food, service industries or schools, etc. We know that in other countries there are also own administrative courts, constitutional courts and other special courts. The Party considers that it is appropriate to examine the experience of other countries with such courts and then assess whether it is reasonable to introduce them into the Norwegian administration and judicial system. This could be done, for example, by: is that a separate administrative court without waiting lists and queues, with expertise in just administrative law and practice, can make rapid decisions and thus quickly bring administrative cases back to the right place without wasting useful time. Such a court will also prevent a government with strong internal loyalty, even between the superior and the subordinate parties, from obtaining appeals infrequently. A critical and independent administrative court, which initially understands the views of the public, will be able to improve the quality of our administrative bodies and agencies. Finally, the political aspect is given little attention in the presentation. Personally, I would have liked the Government and the Council to have looked at the double roles that exist in the political environment. We know that many of us in the house here who have overall political authority also participate in subordinate political bodies, such as county councils, county councils and local government. I should like to see the Government and the Council of State have seen more of that problem, because it's kind of strange that we're going to have such a large amount of politicians who have three-part roles.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e436	In the right we have looked forward to the administrative policy statement of the Council of State with anticipation. We had hoped that this statement would point out at least some areas in which the Government had found it possible to rationalize and simplify administration, and some concrete measures to remove double administration where the levels of government overlap. But we were unfortunately disappointed. Certainly, the Council of State's presentation contains program formulations that could have been taken out of our party programme, and if the statement had given us an action plan with deadlines for implementing this, yes, then of course we should welcome it with joy. But that's not the case. The presentation is more marked by being an electoral programme than an action plan. But from those who are in position to carry out election vows, we are waiting for something more than what we have received. The right is concerned that we should do the most important thing first, and then we must give priority to how to use the state's funds. Not least because of this, we have wanted to move ahead in modernising and simplifying public administration. The Council of State points out that the Task Distribution Committee is to give up its position in just one year's time, and I wonder if this is the same task-sharing committee as the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers referred to when, in the autumn of 1997, we called for a borderline increase between the tasks of the county council and the county council, just to simplify and rationalise public administration. Or is it the structural committee for the modernisation of the public sector that a majority in the UK decided last harvest, precisely because this work seems to be too slow and the need for rationalisation and modernisation is urgent? But it's only in a year or so that we can expect an adjustment from the sample. Is it to be consulted before any further action is taken, or will the interested parties be sufficiently consulted during the work? Does one suggest that a more rational government can be realized in the current magnificence period, or will this be another example of the time when the Fans thought nothing would happen, then he set up the first committee in the world? In the Right, we are now becoming very impatient. General government is beyond all limits, and efficiency is not exactly our first association with the term ‘general government’. And that's a pity for the employees, because what the public sees as inefficiency in the administration is largely due to the overwhelming amount of regulations that the administration has to deal with, making even the simplest case a complicated affair. In addition, new, unnecessary laws and regulations that no one has requested but increase the workload of the administration are coming. Intensive tasks are set aside to assist control tasks, which this government prioritises. For example, the big issues last year were to have the boat register law and the Brustad-Bu law adopted, the last one still demands the family minister to give priority to the control side. ‘Management seems to work well’, says the Council of State. Yeah, does it really? Does our administration meet users with the service and respect that should characterise a good administrative apparatus? Is the procedure satisfactory? Does the management have the ability to prioritise? VG 5 May reads that since 1993, the authorities have ‘missed the supervision of more than a thousand child-restraint children’ in institutions. Does the Council of State consider this to be a satisfactory priority in the county offices? Da Ot.prp. No 61 for 1997-98 on child protection in the spring, the Right addressed the arbitrary nature of child protection that the Department itself pointed to in its case study. We wanted to introduce quality requirements in relation to those placed in the institution. We wanted to ensure that actions were based on interdisciplinary excellence, and we wanted a higher quality of evaluation before any changes were made. This was rejected by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs and the Government Parties. The Council of State points out that there may in practice be a conflict between the interests of transparency, legal certainty and efficiency and that this government will have transparency as its overall objective. With all due respect for the work done to make administration more transparent, it must never be at the expense of legal certainty – never. As far as child protection is concerned, its work is, in its nature, protected from open access, but the ministry knows that legal certainty is at stake in relation to our weakest. But in this department, it seems more important to control Sunday trade than child protection. Children can be placed anywhere – only the breads don’t get space anxiety from too large premises. And is it satisfactory administration when the ordinary citizen receives a criminal tax if the declaration is one day late, while the Equations Offices may miss out on the appeal procedure as long as it takes care of them? Again – I call for legal certainty as a priority area, and I miss a priority of public tasks. During the county office, 1 March 1998 there were 1 800 employees. Of these, a good third, 639 were linked to the agricultural departments and 375 to the environment. How much resources does the Council of State consider it appropriate to over-sample sales agreements between the purchaser and the seller of privately owned small parcels of land or for concessional treatment for the heir to small farms? When the county notifies that statutory control tasks are not carried out due to a lack of resources, is it not time to see whether the resources allocated to these posts are properly prioritised? Is there really need to dry 56 pst. the resources of the county are used on agriculture and the environment? Is it more important to check how many nights a owner spends on a concessional small use than to check how children live under public care? This government has on several occasions pointed out the need to strengthen local democracy, that decisions are taken as closely as possible to those concerned. That is entirely in agreement with the Right. But does the government think so? The Council of State says that governance should contribute to democratic development, and one of the important issues in this context is how management policy instruments can also strengthen the legitimacy of policy decisions. It sounds great, but the government's actions undermine the trust in purpose. In Rogaland, the County Department of Agriculture and the Environment counts approx. 70 men. Despite this well-qualified, over-sized staff, the department is denying the professional expertise on the basis of a politically legally passed regulatory decision in Stavanger Municipality, and refuses to approve the regulatory plan. Is it by having central government review local government that this government will strengthen democracy? There is also a lack of consistency between words and actions in other areas. Several points of the report point to the likelihood that we will have a development in which some groups of employees might wish to have a looser relationship with the employer, even to a greater extent, to shape their working day. In order to compete for long-term labour, it is also necessary for the State to be able to respond to such challenges. We fully agree with that in the Right, but we wonder whether this by the Council of State is just words. Public health services have serious problems attracting skilled workers, and some hospitals are at risk of having to close departments. At the same time, we know that we have 10,000 nurses in reserve. They do not work with what they are trained for, but they might think so if they got a looser relationship with the employer. In spite of this, however, the Government will dissociate health professionals and not allow private employment services and the provision of labour for them. Here, there is a contrast between the reality described in the statement and the actual actions of the Government. But we also see this in other areas. Cleaning up the form field was a taboo for the Government, and also the Council's statement points to this as a priority area. However, during this government, the form field has increased — not decreased. In the first year of Sponheim State Council, the business form load increased by 94 000 hours, according to the Ukeavis of Economics. In 1998, industry was required to complete 40 more forms than in the previous year, and I would assume that the government will have a corresponding increase in the workload to check all these forms. New regulations are on the line. According to the Norwegian Statutory of Law, last year 1526 came to the fore. On 9 April this year, 305 new ones had arrived. We cannot meet tomorrow by laying ever new areas under official control and registration. If we're going to get a simpler Norway, we have to set limits on what the public is going to care about, but there doesn't seem to be any ambition in this government. On the contrary, both the Adult Declaration and the State Council statement state that we in Norway should have a large public sector. But are there no alarm clocks ringing when the attached statistics show that the proportion of public sector employees is rising steadily, from every fourth employee in 1978 to every third employee in 1997? As more and more workers become public employees, it means less and less to do the value-creating work that we all depend on. That should worry more than right. The public sector was intended to safeguard our well-being, but today the public sector has gained an extent that threatens its well-being. Health and school — central areas of the state — are becoming increasingly bureaucratic. The form field threatens the production of services. Working time goes with meetings and paperwork rather than producing needed services, and this issue is not even the subject of the administrative policy presentation. That's why the Right is disappointed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e470	The representative, Mr Stolt-Nielsen, discussed in the introduction of his statement the issue of guidelines for the setting-up of committees. The President will stress that when you use quotes, it will be an advantage if you also take where the quotation comes from.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e473	Time's up, President!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e478	The President has noticed that there is a great deal of distress, but hopefully not in response.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e481	Over the 200 years of its existence, Norwegian administrations have undergone major changes. Now we're going into the knowledge and information society. We're running out of time. Active and transparent citizens will expect a public administration that is open and accessible, that makes it possible to see and participate, and that meets the individual with respect. The central party believes that proximity is a fundamental principle for achieving this goal. Knowledge, knowledge, overview and access make it easier for a person to know what the case is and thus to make the right decisions. This, in addition, will bind the people together. The discussion that has now been going on for a long time to merge municipalities and counties into large units will clearly have a negative impact on this and will create a future. If we mean anything about democracy and participation, we have to go against the big changes here. The centre party wants to make use of the entire country. As part of this, the state must go ahead to decentralize its operations. The relocation of public activities can help create a creative environment, while at the same time adding knowledge to the community. These can be new tasks as well as transfers of current functions from the central level to the local level, as close to the users as possible. Here it is important to develop new solutions for interaction and task solving across geographical and administrative boundaries. This may lead to a positive trend towards poor nutrition throughout the country. I look forward to further handling this after the reduced staff group has submitted its proposal. I think it's positive that the government is now going in to introduce the public agency. Such offices will be able to save many local environments from relocation, especially by young people. We know that the day the school, the post office, the gas station and the store are closed, when one loses the everyday functions one had in the community, then often the road is not too long for the idea of moving in. However, service offices do not have to become a substitute motive to just shut down the post office, the Equation Office, etc., because that would be the opposite – then it seems centralizing. An investigation by Møreforsking revealed that the nearby store was as important as the roundabout to prevent emigration from a peripheral. When one also knows that the number of shops has been significantly reduced in recent years, countermeasures are high. Otherwise, there are positive experiences from around the country where one has tried to cooperate. I know e.g. in Namskogan, the public library has co-located with the Social and Social Office and municipal information services. In addition, the library, together with local shops and mail, has revealed its own existence. Since these library branches are located in shops in the village, they have been available throughout the opening hours of shops, i.e. approximately. Seventy hours a week. This again shows what can be done in a vast community with a very wide range of constitutions. This is a good example of something you've got. Therefore, it must be right not to set detailed and narrow limits on what public service offices should consist of and how they should be run. Here, only imagination can set the limits of what one can achieve when only the will is present. A working group which is now considering this should also propose solutions by February 2000. I look forward to having this discussion. Otherwise, I would like to comment on a statistic followed by the Council of State. When total public expenditure is incurred as a percentage of gross domestic product, such as: Inger Stolt-Nielsen from Right today criticized, it appears that Norway clearly has the lowest expenditure of all the Nordic countries, with 10-18 pst. below the level of the other countries. This also applies in relation to other European countries to which we can compare, as close as the United Kingdom, which is a little below us. This can give us real reason for reflection.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e498	The framework for general government and government does not evolve as a result of a law of nature but as a result of the forces on the offensive and as a result of decisions, both at large and by local governments, and in particular by boys in the closed rooms of financial institutions and groups. So evolution is man-made. It's like a red thread throughout the administrative policy statement that we're going to adapt to the development. Because developments are governed by powerful capital forces that break the borders of the nation state and act freer and freer on an unregulated world market, we are thus under pressure on the public sector in all countries. The result is also pressure on the local economy, as we see the results of now. From the NHO and the right forces, there are systematic and massive campaigns for conversion to AS, freeing municipal and state companies, for privatisation of the public sector, for outsourcing, and now the new word that we learned in the presentation, for exposure to competition. There are strong private economic interests that see the public sector as an important expansion area – new markets are to be conquered, where high returns can be achieved. The result is greater differences, but also that corporate economic thinking is creeping into the public sector, where each unit is to earn — and this is not at all the best framework for holistic thinking — and where efficiency in importance is required to run faster, to take away more patients or users, to step more young people into the classes and kindergartens. This leads to enormous pressure on the main resources of government, namely the people. When the Council of State has the ambition to adapt to developments, not to govern it so that more resources can be made available to the public sector, a public sector in which people have time to do a better job, it thus facilitates a right triangle of administrative policy. That is why the Progress Party is very pleased. SV will defend a strong public sector, a strong welfare state and strong welfare municipalities, because this is the best way to organise society. We want equal rights of participation in society, regardless of gender, age, ethnic background or economic and social resources. Only a strong public sector can guarantee this right and ensure equal access to welfare services according to needs. Governments are the best means of fair distribution. The market is a miserable distributor. Therefore, together with the trade union movement, together with users who are citizens and not customers, SV will work for a better public sector and against privatisation. We are against the weakening of democratic, popular governance by the increasing transfer of decisions to the market, to the closed governance, where publicity and transparency are not very high. A defence for the public sector does not mean that we are deeply satisfied with the state of things. On the contrary, defending the public sector means looking with critical eyes at services. I fully agree with the Council of State that the service position and respect for the individual should be the registration plate of the administration. All shall be able to retain their dignity in meeting with the administration. We know it's not always like that. Too many times people have been met with an A4 attitude and extreme control. When we hear about such experiences, we have to ask why. Why does that happen? Obviously, it has something to do with attitude. But the demand for efficiency in importance makes things faster, does not promote the good meeting between individuals and those who are to help. When the service statement is now held up as a means of achieving the objective of better management – and it may be very good – it must not contain a standard requirement for processing time. Humans shall be provided with assistance according to different needs, and they shall be entitled to individual treatment with different uses of time. They have demands for comprehensive services, that different agencies really cooperate, because there are whole people who need services or help. As the leader of a municipality, I have thought a lot about how to achieve this cooperation above the level of the establishment and administration needed to improve the individual's meeting with the public administration. And I have, among other things, found to override the requirement of strict budgetary discipline in each department or office, causing those who need the most help to be pushed between offices — blackmail games. We need to provide staff with space and opportunities to cooperate and to make the necessary changes by focusing on the creativity, experience, skills development and improved organisational and management structures of their employees. In this way, we can renew and defend the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e514	The basic position of the left is that the administration is owned by the citizen, and it is a tool for the citizen. Our slogan 'You're the boss!' describes quite precisely what the party's basic attitude is. I have to say that my meeting with the administration after I arrived at Stortinget means that I will start by giving a compliment to the Norwegian administration. I am impressed by the thoroughness, independence and accountability it shows in its work. But the ‘manager’ is beginning to get into trouble because the system being managed has gradually become so complicated that the citizen feels more and more disgusted with the system. I think SV's representative here said that 'everyone should be able to keep their dignity in mind with the administration'. That's another way of saying it. But the responsibility for this lies not with the administration, it lies here in the hall – with us who are legislators. We're the ones who assume that society is so complicated that we need complicated rules to control it. It's a bad attitude. The regulatory framework has been justified in terms of equality and predictability, but unfortunately more and more detailed adjustments and attempts at millimetre fairness have been made. The consequence of this is that we are increasingly using our resources to check whether the regulations we have established are being followed, rather than using resources to solve tasks. We in the Left want a simpler and more open administration. A simpler administration is about making the administration efficient, so that the government can produce the most services possible for each krona. And in the discussions on whether or not we should have a strong public sector, I believe that the answer from the Left is quite clear: we should have a strong public sector, but that of course does not preclude us from asking for products from others. Thus, it has not been said that the public sector will be responsible for all the production of services. It's up to us politicians to make sure that the requirements become so clear that they do not represent any danger to either the individual, the weakest of us or anyone else if we put this out. What is the problem with the young person who has gradually evolved as a consequence of the rules that we adopt here is that it is the most vulnerable to harm. The resource forces swing through this jungle as if they were Tarzan, and they always find ways out. Transparency and legal certainty are important principles of information relating to individual citizens. It is obvious to the Left that a citizen who addresses the public administration should have the right to have access to documents relating to the citizen. He shall also be entitled, as far as possible, to decide on the re-use of information relating to himself. The left sees it as very positive that the Government has taken the initiative in this debate. And we think that the discussion that is now taking place about the principles carries out a bid that there may be some changes in the course of the super tanker that is the Norwegian administration, and ‘super tanks’ are then meant to be of positive significance. The government has simplification as its main goal, but unfortunately it takes a long time for it to sink through all layers of government. But this is a work that the government has started, and I'm sure we'll get it done if we get the time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e539	The Council of State stressed in its statement that she was to focus both on the Government’s vision of administration and its view on the role and tasks in the years to come. Now, I'm going to try to avoid characterising this, but there's reason to warn against too trendy prediction of developments in some areas, and a desire that management can play a stronger role in other areas. Governments stressed the importance of individual adaptations and of embellishment of employee and employer relationships in the light of technological developments. Then it might be appropriate to point to the collective framework we have today, which the Council of State was cautiously little about. The public sector and also the administration are of such a nature that of course the emphasis must be on IT, and the public must have an offensive policy in this area, but to believe that IT will create fundamental changes in the organisation of our employees, I think it may be unfortunate. In fact, we see from other countries that this is being used as a breakup bar to reduce employee involvement and to introduce more flexible mechanisms that weaken their interests. This must not be the starting point for the government's personnel policy. Public employment is of such a nature that it will have little impact on them, even though it is also necessary for such a large employer as the public to have a well-developed offer to give workers the opportunity to use IT to organise their daily lives better. On the other hand, if the Council of State is interpreted in a word, it is given the impression that it is using it to attack the collective rights of what can be described as the worst Right-Tradition. Therefore, I would like to stress that our position is to contribute to the public being involved in finding solutions that safeguard the interests of employees also in such work arrangements, and I would challenge the Council of State at this very point. A related theme that has been important for the Workers' Party in administrative policy is equality. The public sector is a very important player in order to achieve real equality among workers, and perhaps especially in order to achieve equal pay. In recent years, the state has been pursuing a policy that has worked reasonably well, while the opposite can be said of, for example, the opposite. the municipalities. The Labour Party is concerned that this is a point on which the Minister of Labour and Administration will also focus in the years to come, and that she will continue to pursue the policy pursued by the National Councils of the Labour Party. Just because the Council of State did not choose to place any particular emphasis on this in the presentation, I want to use the opportunity to give her another chance. And I assume that the Council of State then uses the opportunity to confirm that this becomes a very important issue even during her period. In a country such as Norway, government will play a major role both as a capital base, as a competence holder and as a organiser. In this context, it will also be a bit debatable to enter into a debate on the governance of the state with the idea that the state should not own and that privatisation will be the only gratifying thing to do. In a small country like ours, with the economic structure we have, the state must necessarily be a very important and modern participant in economic development as well. Something else could help to make the entry of foreign ownership stronger, which I have been given a certain impression that the central government has not considered lucky. In an article in the Newspaper last week, a number of timely questions were asked, which need to be answered before we enter the privatisation debate to which the Council of State invited: ‘What will be better? Will privatisation improve the management of the company? Can one count on faster decisions and wiser arrangements at the moment the company is listed on the stock exchange? Will stock exchange listing trigger intellectual and professional resources in the company that are not otherwise allowed to grow?’ If the answers to this assumption are that it is desirable to privatise, a stronger involvement of the Council of State is certainly necessary. I hope that the Council of State today will not carefully frame what is the status, but will also give signals as to whether she wants to and whether she can help steer this development. Passive adjustment has always been the wish of the right side, and I hope that it will not be the model of the administration policy of the central government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e561	We are discussing today the presentation of the administration. In my opinion, it is a matter of seeing it from the side of the common man, how everyday life is perceived for those who are going to produce and create something in this society, based on work and machines – it is a user of boat or excavator, a bomber of tunnels, building garages or houses. Then the picture appears a little different than it appears from this house and from this hall. My experience in administration is not exactly as streamlined as the Council of State stated in its presentation. I have experienced the training of applications, the training of treatment. I have a special case that I want to mention. I have even experienced the training of the Civil Ombudsman. Not even when he receives a response to his enquiries to the administration, precisely on the basis that there is no basis in the Administrative Act to impose procedural deadlines. I refer to my suggestion that I had some time ago. So even the Civil Ombudsman is being neglected. He set a ten-day deadline a month ago for the department concerned, and has not yet received a reply. We experience a start on a tunnel or building a road, and it's invested for hundreds of millions of dollars, and a bureaucrat shows up that finds an arrowhead, or something similar to an arrowhead, and the plant is stopped. It costs hundreds of millions of dollars if it's stopped. But by bypassing legislation and laws, a thing can do to get this going again and make the social effort in which it was to be invested. We feel that we should build a garage or move a small house, then one through a paper mill that is enormous. One must have a stack of documents and through eight-nine instances to move a little nudge or a little bow. That's what people are struggling with today. So what's the answer? Yes, it is a service statement – a service statement can be a reference! Then a moving bow gets a blast mountain, then a grave gets in the way, then a plow mark gets. Service statement – a new office, a service office, must know! You can go in there and solve all your problems! There are new bureaucrats who are going to scrutinise your initiatives and distribute service statements that you can provide to the excavator, and then it's just to get started. I also have another field I would like to mention. It's the fishing industry. There's a system that leaves management at the discretion of the administration. There's the government's free discretion that gets to hier and say and think exactly what it thinks. It's a system that we can't intervene in the courts, because the courts are cut off or unwilling to intervene in the administration's free discretion. Right there is the problem. Such is the everyday life of people who work with their hands or their machines, or are out on the sea to try to do something productive for the benefit of this country, and who do not live by producing paper or by moving on paper. I wonder when the government intends to take these things seriously and try to make the proceedings easier and easier for people, and let less and less be left to the discretion of the administration. As we have seen in a number of cases, it may be impossible for a private person to have his case dealt with precisely because, as I said before, the courts are cut off or unwilling to deal with such matters that are left to the discretion of the administration, on the basis that they have received authority from this room.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e576	Much can be said about the presentation by the Council of State of administrative policies. That it would contain some revolutionary changes, the Progress Party had not expected, but something more concrete than what we heard, we would have expected. The presentation contained many of course and relatively little about action. An example is that people should be active participants in society and not just customers and clients. The party of progress is pleased with this statement because this is a good progress party policy, but there is something missing when one does not specify how this should be done, because it should not be a party, any grouping or any individual who does not want more influence over his own life. It is also said that the administration should take care of human interests and be at their service Yes, it must and must be so that the state exists for mankind, and not the opposite. Otherwise, the Progress Party records that the Council of State has a very strong belief that the Internet and information technology must solve most of the problems we have. Maybe they can, but this is probably a few years ahead of time. Very many in Norway do not have access to this, which may be due to lack of equipment, among other things. for economic reasons and lack of training. This is, of course, during preparation, especially in school, but will take some time. The Progress Party also believes that the presentation lacks some information about the county council and its role in the future. Does the Council of State consider it to be as it is, or is the Council of State open to an assessment of such a large administrative body, which, in the view of the Progress Party, is mature for change and should be removed in the long term? In the view of the Progress Party, the greatest deficiency in the present presentation is that the basic problems of a large and growing public sector are not taken seriously. The Progress Party is of the opinion that instead of discussing less organisational and administrative improvements, it should have put forward a more fundamental public sector debate and presented an overall strategy for its deregulation. Such a strategy should, in the view of the Progress Party, be divided into four parts: it should be a realistic, sober and critical review of the public sector. There should be a clear definition of the responsibilities, roles and duties of the State. It should also set clear and concrete objectives for these activities. Finally, it should also be an action plan with the means to achieve it. The point of progress is, unlike, for example: SV, of the opinion that a number of services in the public sector can be produced with great benefit by private enterprises. The Progress Party therefore considers that a privatisation commission or equivalent should be appointed to assess which services in the public sector can be performed more efficiently by private enterprises or organisations. Furthermore, a permanent expert group should be appointed to assess the cost-benefit of such measures in the public sector. The Progress Party notes that there is a classic problem in the state and in the general government as a whole that one is little good at recording the results that the enterprise produces. Nor is it good to make improvements in cases where the results that can be achieved are disproportionate to the resources used. I would like to point out that the Progress Party has previously promoted a number of proposals for improvements in administrative policy. This applies, inter alia, to: the introduction of time-limited laws and stricter time-use requirements for the examination of applications, concessions, etc. These are proposals that have been submitted to the Government in the past. As early as 1992-93, the Progress Party proposed several measures to ensure that the public sector is as good and as right as possible. Among other things, as mentioned earlier, we considered the appointment of a public commission to assess which services in central government can be produced for the benefit of private individuals. This may also apply to organisations, through a review of the existing ministerial structure with a view to better coordination of reduced conflicts of interest and increased productivity. The Progress Party has also requested that an assessment be made as to whether the departments should not be reorganised into purely political secretariats. The Progress Party also wants to change the human resources policy, so as to avoid seniority as a criterion for promotion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e604	First, I want to try to answer some of the questions that have been raised. Gunnar Breimo asks if the government has come to a new recognition. I'm not going to answer it directly, except that I'm absolutely convinced that the public has to renew itself just to avoid pure privatisation. We must be willing to make good – and better – use of resources and the most efficient operation possible. Our overall objective has been that this should be done in relation to ensuring good user orientation, where users should have confidence in the administration and where users should be involved. When it is said that there is little action in this statement, I do not agree with that. There is a good deal of action here. Some are continuing what others have discussed in the past and in part started, and some of the measures are brand new. With regard to the requested involvement, I would like to mention in particular the public service offices, as a contribution measure. We have information technology consultations, which is a new tool, we have service statements, and not least the collection of norge.no on the Internet with one input will enable us to have a much stronger user involvement. That's some of the things. We've been sitting in this government for a year and a half, and we've put down some samples. They're running out of time this year and next year, and of course we're going to follow this up. Sandberg of the Progress Party points to some important aspects of role clarification. We have an important project going on through the State Consultant who is looking at the state as owner and regulator, looking at and clarifying roles and responsibilities between the departments and subordinate businesses. In addition, we will also look at the role of regulators in the future. These are important areas. Inger Stolt-Nielsen spoke about modernization, that we're too late to do things, and that there might be too many selections. Yes, but we need to have a sample. Actually, there have to be some more investigations. With regard to the mandate of the Task Distribution Committee, the Stortinget first approved the draft budget in 1998, and that is important. But it's not like we're just sitting and waiting for this sample. We have initiated a number of other measures. Among other things, we have ‘Simplify Norway’, where projects will continue. In his presentation, the Minister of Local Affairs spoke about voluntary community reunification. And then we have the public service offices, which are also an answer to this. With regard to the tasks and resources of the county, these must be seen in the context. Tasks are also assigned in this Chamber, but it is clear that with regard to the priorities of the county councillors, we have an ongoing debate with the county councillors about it. This will also be discussed in detail in the Task Distribution Committee. Und Aarrestad was involved in the scheme with the public service offices, and she pointed to some local initiatives and different solutions. I totally agree with that. However, we also need to facilitate the removal of some legal barriers. From the Ministry we have recently asked all departments to work for local initiatives for cross-border cooperation. Even though the state is positive, we've seen that there's some resistance also in the state levels. We're trying to be drivers here. In the case of municipalities, they must also be active in wanting to set up a public service office, and it is a pleasure to see that very many municipalities are concerned about this. To Ågot Valle: Yes, we need a strong public sector. It is not and will not be relevant for the public, as I said in the statement, to give up responsibility in relation to key welfare goods such as healthcare, nursing and nursing services or education. Terje Johansen was concerned that the system is too complicated. I agree with that. This is precisely why, through ‘Simplifying Norway’, we have taken action in this area, and there will be concrete projects beyond springtime. It's going to make it easier for individuals, it's going to make it easier for business, and it's going to make it easier for municipalities. Everything in the Workers' Party said that IT will bring about changes in human resources policy, that we are in a way adding up to it. If this is the case, it should of course be done in cooperation with the employee organisations. We will also follow up on the work on equality – I can only say that. I noticed that the Bastisen was a little negative for service statements. I do not have the negative relationship to the service statements that he has, and I hope it will go well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e638	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e641	The Council of State stressed several times in its presentation the need for empowerment. That it is important and ever more important, there can be no doubt about it. This applies not least in an area such as information technology, where large groups are currently excluded. In my speech I pointed to the lack of proposals from the Government on action at school to meet the most basic need and ensure that everyone gets the same starting opportunities. In the statement we got no signal about the bet. Instead, the Council of State refers to the new skills reform as the Government’s competence reform, and we get the impression that it is the Government’s efforts that have led to the emphasis being placed on labour-based continuing education. In the name of justice, we should admit here that there is talk of the reform of the trade union movement. For the reform, the trade union movement is well-intentioned and motivated. The fact that it is now being followed up with cross-political support is a completely different matter. I would like the Council to confirm that this is the case. Then the Council of State talked about the public service offices. But here, too, it's probably about a scheme that was initiated by another government council in another government. Under the Totland Council, pilot projects were launched, which have subsequently been evaluated. Now, the natural thing is to take from the experience we have today after the trial projects, and to go on with the positive sides. My question to the government council at this point is: How will she proceed to get reluctant actors to participate in the service office scheme? Their attitudes are likely to vary within central government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e650	In the field of information technology and empowerment, these are important areas. I want to refer to the action plan that the Government has put in place on information technology. Otherwise, I would like to inform you that there are actually 1.8 million people in this country per person. Today's date has access to the Internet, and it's very happy. We also know that you will be able to collect some information via libraries, schools, public service offices, etc. I think that information technology, even though we've been accused of saying too much about it, has to solve a lot of things. We believe in it as an instrument to improve the information and dialogue with the administration. When it comes to the reform of competences, and who created it, it is right that I used the term «Reform of Government’s Competences». It was gratifying that the government too looked completely through wage-fixing and also the signals given last year have integrated the reform of competence in its policy. But it is absolutely right that it was not this government that invented the reform of competence. I'm not going to have a debate about who was first out. In the case of public service agencies, it is true that the Totland Council launched the experiment in 1992. The tests were completed in 1996, but nothing else was done. This government, which was established in 1997, thought that this was a very good idea, brought up the tests that had been made, and has actually actively entered and decided that it wants to set up a service office in all municipalities. In that case, it's new. There has been some resistance to the service offices, perhaps primarily in state agencies. That's what I've got into, and I'm still going to be a proponent to get the state agencies involved. But the municipalities have to be willing, and it's the municipalities that have to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e659	Let me first again praise the Council of State for following up on central government, and the thoughts and views of what the Government wants to do in that area. But anyway, in conclusion, in my speech, I put forward some ideas as to whether the Council of State had taken any account of the political role model by being the top authority of state politicians and municipal politicians, and what is gradually becoming a larger and larger reoccurrence, that politicians are acting at all three levels of government. I would like to hear if the council had any considerations and views about this in the future. I would also have liked to have heard the views of the Council of State on the county – whether there is a strengthening administrative link or a weakening administrative link in the future – and whether the Council of State is also concerned with regional thinking in relation to the merger of the county and the removal of the county.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e666	The representative Sandberg is asking questions about the fact that we have politicians acting on three levels of government. I can't say that I have thought so much about it in my short time as the Council of State. But I think it's an interesting issue, and it brings me back again to assess this in more detail. It has not been part of what we have discussed in relation to this administrative policy statement. With regard to the existence or not of the county council, it has been and is the government's policy that the county council should be constituted as administrative body. But it is not going to pass that the role of the county council and the division of tasks are an important topic when we get the final report of the Task Distribution Committee. I cannot answer the representative in any other way than that this will be a debate that will come later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e674	The right is pleased that the Government takes a settlement with the Workers' Party and with itself and its own past in this statement. The government sets up user orientation, modernisation and efficiency as three key words for its management policy. One of the areas to which the Council of State attaches importance is the order/execution role. The Council of State, like the Right, believes that it has a public responsibility for health, school and care, but it is ‘not necessarily’ the public that needs ‘to be responsible for producing the service’, says the Government in its statement. This sounds good, but does not harmonize with comments from, among other things. State Councillor Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, who requested in the February Questionnaire that ‘communities... discuss alternatives to privatisation/competition postponement’. The centre batch has generally expressed great scepticism for the use of external public service producers. What is the Government's view on this important question? Is there any indication by the Council of State of Davøy – quote from the statement: ‘Private actors and non-governmental organisations can show entrepreneurship responsibility here by competing for the producer role’? Or is it the central party’s ingrained resistance to the same, competitive outsourcing – or ‘competition exposure’, as the government says? What is the Government's view? Can we now expect that the Government will actually send out the clear signal also in other statements to Kommune-Norway that now it is important to make sure that the service is produced at the right price, and not so important who produces the service?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e685	The government has wanted to have an overall approach to these issues, and sees that we need to raise an overall debate on this. In fact, a working group has now been set up to assess the conditions for when, for example: competitive outsourcing is appropriate and not appropriate. Below we will discuss the distinction between the order role and the producer role. In that case, although the public can choose to entrust the actual production of a service to private individuals, the public continues to have economic and political responsibility for the quality of the service. We will look at the possibility of stimulating local private actors and non-profit organisations to show entrepreneurship responsibility when the public is not always the provider of services. We have examples today too – this is not entirely new. We have both volunteers and other more formalised organisations working against public opinion today. We will also look at the possibility of spreading good governance solutions and ideas. We want this to include, among other things: shall be made through scale-on-scale procedures, where public authorities can compare. We want to look at this from an overall perspective, and want to raise a debate in the wake of the investigation when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e698	First, an obvious misunderstanding. Who will take credit for the reform of competence? It was actually SV at Øystein Djupedal who first raised the proposal for the reform of competence here in this house. So for human resources and equality, which I'm glad the Council of State says she should continue. Because it is that the State has an employer responsibility for state activities and can give a clear signal that equal pay should be given priority. Now, after the income statement for 1998, it turns out that state employees, full-time women in 1997, had an average annual salary of 89.9 p.p. of equivalent for men. The studies show that it has been terribly late. So there's no one here that can hit his chest and say that the job is done. The pace needs to be increased — and quite strongly — if equal pay is to be achieved by 2015. SV has proposed several times that it be set by an equal pay pot and that the disposal of the equal pay pot be decided in negotiations, i.e. that this should come as an extra effort. How does the Council of State view such a proposal? If she does not take a positive view of it, what measures will she take to ensure that we receive equal pay in the State sector? The council said, "Yes, the government will defend a strong public sector." But does not the Council of State see that the pressure on the public sector, the pressure to slim down the public sector and thus also squander the municipalities – the fact that the municipalities now lack 5 billion kroner – becomes itself a pressure to privatise public services, to the delight of those who want to make more money in that area?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e709	Yes, equality is important, and I have a strong commitment to equality and equal pay. With regard to the specific questions the representative asks in relation to the leadership and local negotiations, I would like to ask for understanding that I cannot say so much about this right now. We're actually not done with the paycheck this year. The key adjustments and the local negotiations are coming in on an ongoing basis, so we should rather take such a debate perhaps after the settlement – I cannot go further into it. So to defend the public sector: yes, I see the issues that the representative Valle is raising with regard to the pressure on the public sector. But I also think it is vital that we, who are responsible for the administration, see if there are opportunities to improve the service. Not least, it's about being more and better user-oriented, because I think that a lot of what happens to the individual user on the government side, on the public side, will help to decide whether we're able to make a good enough offer. Because if we don't succeed in that – and not only in economics, but also in attitudes – the private services will also force themselves, and I'm not at all a member of the government, or the government, of privatising public services.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e716	A question of vital importance for the further development of the welfare society is the level of private involvement, that we find the right balance here. For all those concerned with justice and equal access to services, the answer to this question is crucial. Personally, I would like to say that some of the Council's opinions scared me, despite a wording that the responsibility for important parts should remain public. The Council of State says it so strongly that it is open to «redefine» the role of the State. She is willing to go far with regard to the outsourcing of public activities. In addition, she will bring more private owners into public enterprises and businesses. It must sound like music in the ears of the Progress Party, and I am not surprised that the representative Sandberg was well pleased. If I understood him correctly, he found some formulations from his own party program. I find reason to ask the Council of State to elaborate on the issue of private owners. In order to justify privatisation, she points out that private owners will increase the quality of ownership. What does she think of when she formulates it this way? In what way does government ownership of enterprises with government responsibilities not hold objectives, and which enterprises does she particularly want to privatise?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e723	In order to clarify some of what I said to Ågot Valle just: in terms of the heavy public tasks that I mentioned instead, namely health care, care services and school, it's not about us wanting to privatize this. As far as the outsourcing is concerned, the answer is the same to the representative of Breimo as to Greece, that we want to see this in an overall perspective. We believe that it is necessary to discuss whether public policy is in keeping with its objectives. We think it is necessary to discuss whether one sees opportunities to outsource any part of the public sector and in which case, and I cannot answer that here and now. We have to get back to this in a more comprehensive debate later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e728	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e731	Of course, the public sector is subject to a lot of attention in our society. What happens in public administration is somehow important to most of us. Participation and democracy, said the representative Per Sandberg. Yeah, I guess no one in this room disagrees. It is a Memorandum of Understanding with which all parties can fully agree. It is important that the administration is characterised by equal treatment, transparency and transparency — while ensuring the legal certainty of individual users properly. Governments shall be there to help and assist in the enforcement of our laws and political signals in a good and fair manner. Service and flexibility – and not negativity and countermeasures – must be the right key. But then the resources to carry out the tasks also have to be present. The government takes the view that we people should be active participants in society and not just customers and clients. If we are to have a strong public sector in the future, it will be absolutely essential that we, as clients or clients of different agencies, experience professional and fair governance. We have to dare to put a critical searchlight on our administration. Having a law that works does not necessarily mean that users of public agencies receive the assistance and assistance they require under the law. Private solutions will force themselves if the public sector is not perceived as good and user-friendly. In my opinion, the important key to service is transparency and availability. A professional, up-to-date case handler device is, of course, a prerequisite. It should be the most experienced and experienced staff who run the so-called first line service, and which is where the user meets the station on request. Furthermore, I believe that public service offices are a good idea. The size has discussed and decided on this several times. Nevertheless, the establishment of such offices has been delayed. I hope the work of the Government and the Council of State will soon result in more public service offices. But again, a good service depends on good and up-to-date employees. The representative, Stolt-Nielsen, said in his statement that public administration was characterised by inefficiency and an ever-increasing rise. When one listens to the representative, one should almost believe that the public sector is against the people and not for the people. Yes, the representative thought – if I understood her correctly – that it was our public administration that threatened well-being. These are very strong accusations. Governments are responsible for fundamental welfare tasks in our society. I think that in such a debate there is reason to say that it also consists of skilled employees who are on the line for us to get the best possible offer. It's enough to mention what's happening in the health sector today. I also want to focus on the position of women in the administration. In the case of female leaders, there is little going on late in the future. Although women have had a stronger wage growth than men in the last 20 years, there is still much to be done before we have achieved full equal pay. One important reason why women serve less than men is that women's drugs are paid less than those dominated by men. This is called value discrimination. Many of these women have their professions in the public sector. I believe it is totally unacceptable that we still have different wages for equal work here in the country. This shall not occur in the public domain. I want to ask the Council of State if she can guarantee that this is not happening in our administration today. It is important that public opinion takes precedence over issues like these. There is little comfort in the fact that private business is not much better. I believe that we need to see concrete action. There is no disagreement about the pious wishes and goals of the Council of State. But these are issues we've been talking about for a very long time. What tools does the Council of State want to use in this area to move forward?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e754	In my post, I want to focus on the positive signals given in the statement on competitive outsourcing, the ordering role/execution role and user orientation. I was a little bit concerned with it in the line, and I think it's a step forward that the Council of State is at all using such terms. So we can hope that this will manifest itself in the government's policy ahead. That is, however, what I regret to draw into doubt – at least so far. I'm going through some examples to show the government's double communication in relation to this. The statement states, under the heading «Let the State compete with itself and others»: ‘In public service production, it may be appropriate to distinguish between the order role and the producer role. As an orderer, the public has primary responsibility for defining the content and setting quality requirements for the service, and for verifying compliance with the requirement.’ Furthermore, ‘Although the ordering responsibility for a service is public, the responsibility for the provision of the service does not necessarily have to be the responsibility of the State and the municipality.’ This is very good – on paper. The question is whether the Government will follow up on action. In which areas will this be followed up in practice? Will e.g. The government facilitates private or organisations to own and operate public hospitals in response to tenders? The Council of State clearly states in its statement that it has a public responsibility for hospitals, or for health, social services and education. We agree on this. The right has never disagreed with that either. But the question is whether this will manifest itself in that the state can really take responsibility, and let others do the job. Many municipalities have led the way with regard to the outsourcing of care services. It is enough to mention Asker, Moss, Oslo and Trondheim – this because they see that it provides more cost-effective services, but also better quality services. Once the municipalities have tendered a service, they begin to take an interest in how the residents or users are doing. On the tender process, Lars Nygård, at the Resource Centre for Care Services in Stjørdal, says: ‘In that process, it is often found that the requirement for institutions that the municipalities themselves operate is ‘best of all’. Where a tender is to be made, the requirements must be clarified on the table. For municipalities, it would have been more fruitful to apply more specific requirements also to their own organisation, regardless of whether or not it is to be exposed to competition.’ FAFO, the trade association’s research institute, writes of Moss Municipality:‘The community has, largely as a result of the outsourcing of nursing and care activities to a private enterprise, become more concerned with documenting the quality of the activities carried out in this area, both in its own institutions and in the private sector.’ This is clearly in line with the signals given by the Minister in his statement. That is why, as I said before, it is regrettable that the Minister of Social Affairs has been so sceptical. On questions from Britt Hildeng, Labour Party, the Social Minister replied in the February Questionnaire: 'I want municipalities to actively discuss alternatives to privatisation/competition postponement. In the Adult Declaration, we have focused on modernising and renewing the public sector. The major effort in the care sector in the context of the action plan for the care of the elderly will provide a good basis for a public service provision in due course as well.’ Furthermore, the Minister of Social Affairs announced a statement on the Government's view of the competitive outsourcing of the municipal economic proposition, which I received today, and which I have not had the chance to check. However, the main point for the Social Minister has been to continue to express scepticism about the outsourcing of competition, and to focus on the principle of governance and that it is the public that is both to produce and order. Who is it that represents the government's vision? Is it Davøy, or is it Meltveit Kleppa? Or is it that health and care should be exempted from competitive outsourcing, in the same way that Davay will not allow the agency to distribute labour to health care? Now I see that the Minister of Administration uses the concept of exposure to competition, but the message is clear enough. I record with satisfaction signals that the public should be user-oriented, take responsibility for key welfare goods such as health, care and education, and the indication that the state and the municipality take the responsibility for ordering, but not the responsibility for production. This is an area where more and more of our neighbouring countries and many of our municipalities have made good progress. I now ask that the investigation work does not delay in time, that clear signals be given from the entire Government that this is a desirable development, and that legislation, including VAT rules that prevent such developments, be amended. Finally, I would like to express satisfaction with the government's rhetorical change of pace and line selection in this statement. However, I have doubts as to whether this will fall within the practical policy of the Government, cf. previous opinions of the Central Party in general and the State Council of Melty Party of Kleppa in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e793	Public administration policy is far-reaching. That's why this would be the debate of the big lines, which it's shown to a great extent. Norway has had a formidable growth in the public sector over the past 20 to 30 years, largely due to the expansion of the many different welfare systems in the municipalities. The table annexed to the presentation by the Council of State shows that the share of government expenditure in gross domestic product in Norway is very high in international terms, taking into account the significant growth of GDP in the country as a result of oil revenues. Growth in the public sector has, in a long historical perspective, followed around the same growth curve as GDP. The Council of State has established that it is the Government's objective to maintain a large public sector. This requires Norway to ensure an equivalent service provision across the country. And the development of welfare services has helped to maintain employment, thus helping to maintain a widespread pattern of living in our country. It still has to be an important objective. In its presentation, state councils pointed to the changes that society has undergone in recent years, not least as a result of the emergence of the knowledge and information society. Technological development and internationalisation have contributed to increased competition at all levels of society. This has probably not been avoided by the public sector either. Nevertheless, there is reason to believe that the public sector has had to take the consequences of this competition to a lesser extent than the private sector. From a macro point of view, it is not wrong to say that the public sector has ridden on a continuous wave of participation in the last 30 years because of the large oil revenues. The fact that there are still unresolved tasks and areas behind does not change this image. However, what this wave of access has resulted in is not so easy to read. The need for efficiency and rationalisation has been continuously addressed, but some of the driving forces that characterise the private sector have been lacking to a greater extent, namely the need to ensure profitability. This and other factors underline the timely fact that the Government is now so strongly stressing the need for simplification, modernisation and renewal of the public sector. In this context, the effort to assess competition exposure — by the way, a very difficult word — can be an important initiative to achieve more dynamic management. The use of information technology has been identified as an important and crucial tool for achieving greater efficiency. In party speeches, it has been claimed that investments in IT will be able to pay for themselves, i.e. earn back up to several times. However, it has been difficult to see the concrete results of this. When the State Council's statement points to the danger that IT use can create new information gaps in society, it is probably absolutely right. On the other hand, when it is said that it is a political task to ensure that resources are released, to improve traditional channels for those who will continue to make use of them, a bell is ringing to me. It is easy to imagine here that a new area can be found to apply the efficiency gain to. I don't know if this is a typical example, but Parkinson's laws tend to appear in the back room in different types of administration. Self-maintenance may be a useful feature. But in the case of public bureaucracy, we have a special responsibility to be on guard. In this context, it is commendable that the Government makes provision for the relocation of state agencies. So far, there have not been many results, but the person who knows the enormous strength of the resistance in this area knows that there is no easy task to tackle. The same applies to the goal of a simpler Norway, for which the Prime Minister himself has taken the lead. It won't be easy, but it's no less important for it. A simpler Norway – we will not exchange many words with common users of public services until there comes an ‘Eia, we were there!’ We have met many business managers who have vented their frustration over the bureaucracy jungle, with impeccable internal control regulations, statistical forms and now the latest new legislation on the planning and building law. A simpler Norway is a challenge that should receive full political support. The same should apply to the relocation of state establishments and the establishment of local service offices. These are measures that clearly point towards a more efficient use of resources and a timely government, a more user-oriented and service-oriented administration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e814	The Governing Councils have concentrated administrative policy on three developments in the coming years. One is the active citizen with his demands. The second is administrative adaptability. And the third is broad competence in public administration. Let me underline that an administrative policy statement must not only explain the trends, but also outline solutions and meet the challenges we face in the future, with visions and objectives. We can all agree that words like transparency, transparency, legal certainty, privacy, service and respect are important when we talk about government. But as important as using these words, it's finding the means to achieve this, and here's what I think this statement has its great weakness. In a statement that should have been processed for a year and a half, at the time the government has been in power, there should be a much clearer focus on what you want, what action you want to take, instead of setting down five different working groups to look at the problems. If we look 30 years ahead in Norway, I think it is necessary to take account of the following: we see that it will be an globalisation of the economy. We see that users of public services will have more individualised services. We also see that we have an ageing population, which must meet with a better and more comprehensive public service. None of these developments have found it necessary for the Council of State to outline solutions. How will she, for example, Are users becoming demanding, impatient and less ideological in the future and getting less respect for authorities? How will she change public services to meet these requirements? She can't, like none of us can, raise the people who will get the services. The answer to individual-oriented management is not just electronics and public service offices. Public services are provided by public employees, and therefore it is important to have a development strategy for public employees. It must never be such that the main task of the national employer policy is to enable it to recruit, develop and maintain skilled employees. What about those who have some reduced capacity, who do not have the possibility of continuing training or who have a high level of private care? Is not the government also the employer for these? And shouldn't the state go ahead with good examples of how we're just going to solve problems with workers who can't give everything? With the background of a particular profession, the Council of State should be concerned just about including them in the central administration. In the presentation, the Council of State asks a lot of questions. I miss the answers. When the Council of State says that 1.7 million people in Norway have access to the Internet at home, at school or at work, what is the strategy for bringing all the others who are not using the Internet? When she mentions that the main objective is that information technology should benefit everyone, how will she do that? How will she ensure that everyone in Norway has access to the new technology? Where are the means of not creating the information gap that we're all so afraid of? They are the ones who need to come now and not work groups. In the case of ownership of the State, the State Council claims that where the State acts as owner, it is important to ensure that the State manages its ownership effectively and professionally through the State's return and dividend policy. Is it important for the Council of State to receive dividends from the State companies? Is it not true that the state companies also have a strong obligation to operate throughout the country? Then perhaps dividend policy is less important? This might be a new revolution on the right-hand twist spiral from the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e834	The speakers who are given the floor now have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e837	Some are afraid of twisting to the right, and others for twisting to the left. It's probably a little bit dependent on what starting point we have. When I asked for the floor now, it was because Karita Bekkemelm Orheim said that I had said that the public sector is characterized by inefficiency. If you're going to refer to co-debts who don't have a reply, you should at least be so despicable that you refer to what's really being said, and not to what you think is being said. What was my point is just that it's sad that the employees of the government like jobs, jobs and jobs are perceived by the public as inefficient, because they from this room or from the department are being imposed so awfully much customs – simply – that they don't have to do to create a better society. They must control in the east and control in the west, and this does not benefit the public. When they're busy controlling store areas instead of doing other things, for example, people feel this is ineffective. This does not mean that employees are inefficient, but they use their labour in the wrong area, because they are directed to the wrong area. Loans took a little hold of this, so we're going to make sure that we move some government business from Oslo to the districts. It could be. It's very possible that we have to do it. But we must not move public services out of Oslo with the intention of increasing population growth to depopulation areas. If we're going to move a business from one place to another, it has to have something to do with competence. If, for example: had placed the head office of the Coastal Station of Haugesund instead of Oslo, it would be a very positive action. You'd have moved an office where your skills are, instead of moving your skills into Oslo. One must, of course, look at such instruments if one wants to move to businesses and does not use them as a human resource in relocation areas. So a little connection here between what is reasonable, and what is pure wishful thinking in terms of district policy, should one of course be able to wait on the basis. Nor should one increase the public sector in order to strengthen housing in the districts, for which this has been called for several times, establish service offices, for example. to increase housing in the districts. That is not the purpose of a better service. It's that people should get better service where they live and where they want to live.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e853	The President would remind the representative that the word 'customs' is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e856	One final comment on my part: I said in my speech that the welfare community is dependent on a strong public sector, and I would argue that competitive outsourcing implemented as a principle will lead us to a completely different society, a two-part society, where the rich always get an offer. The public can easily be left with the worst offer due to the lack of resources, the offer on which the weakest people depend. Such a development does not want the Workers' Party. There will also be no basis for competition in many places. It's about transferring public monopolies to private monopolies, and then we're really out there driving. I am pleased that the Council of State in the debate has at least expressed certain doubts. Otherwise, I am not satisfied with the answer to my reply, which specific businesses the Council of State will privatise. When the issue is raised, she should have had examples. I'm willing to attribute it to her short seagoing service. Certain reservations are made by the Council of State regarding the outsourcing of competition. Liability should not be waived in relation to key welfare goods such as healthcare, care and education. All shall have equal access irrespective of the economy. In the 1999 budget, however, we experienced an increase in the proportion of self-employed persons particularly affected by the weakest. Privatisation will create considerable distances between politicians and executives. Distance means shifting responsibility and perhaps arguing about where the responsibility lies. Also a little bit about the final information technology. The electronic channel, the state council talks about, where people can use electronic forms for reporting, receiving applications and processing applications. It sounds good, but we don't do anything about education, for example. So that all students get access to and training using PCs, this will be an illusion for many, perhaps most — although 1.8 million today can connect to the Internet. In a newspaper post a few days ago, the head of the Teachers' Association, Anders Folkestad, expressed some views on the IT situation in the school. He shows, among other things: to the lack of maintenance of the equipment and mention examples of how the teaching is done, saying: ‘Truly, there are a few students who have a satisfactory yield.’ This only underlines the Workers' Party's demand for a school status report, not least in the case of secondary school. If that doesn't happen, I'm afraid we'll have a big gap between those who can use IT and those who can't, even if we want to avoid it. We may also risk transferring resources in the public sector to meet the needs of the strongest, and those who depend on the old-fashioned procedure become victims. Then we've also got a two-part society in that area. That's why I repeat from my post: Only the welfare society guarantees justice and equality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e874	For the previous speaker I would like to say that it is possible that there must be some conceptual clarifications. I'm not talking about privatisation, I'm talking about outsourcing. In other words, competitive outsourcing and privatisation are not, in fact, synonymous. So to Valle, I was asked to guarantee equal pay. I have a wish, to put it this way, that the state as an employer should be a driver, so that we get equal pay for equal work everywhere. In this way, the state does not have so much to be ashamed of. In the case of outsourcing, there are more areas than the health and social sector. We talk about the entire administration when we discuss in the message this with that of others, among other things. shall be able to perform a job. The social sector, health and education sectors are very difficult areas, and it is not certain that these areas are the most suitable for the outsourcing of competition. But we have a sample going on, and we've said that we're willing to go in and look at what's here about opportunities and constraints in the area of competition. But there are other instruments that we haven't discussed so much here today, and which may be particularly related to the health sector in these days, and it goes on duty. Here we have already seen a kind of change, namely a release of the state hospitals that go from gross to net budgeting. It's one type of clearance. And we've seen that in the health sector at least there's a need to give larger powers to the individual businesses. In the recent selection of the Sørensen Committee, which gave its opinion, there is a discussion about this in relation to hospitals. As far as competition between public enterprises is concerned, I would like to refer to what is stated in the communication on benchmarking, that we actually need more competition between the various public enterprises. Yes, we've been thinking 30 years ahead, Grethe G. Fossum, and maybe even longer. We are talking about the year 2030, «Norway 2030», the project that is also mentioned in the statement. It's a process and a methodology that we've started to make administration more adaptable by drawing up five different scenarios for how the world can look so far ahead in time. And of course, we'll try to prepare for action. But it's also just as fully a process and a methodology to make management adaptable. It's very important. And as far as the users are concerned, it's clear that they're going to be in and put the terms. It's our vision that users should be in and out of the conditions. It's not like we're going to have three things down our heads.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e885	The President would like to draw attention to the fact that the number in the Chamber has to go via the President and not directly to the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e888	There's some conceptual confusion out there and going, says the Council of State, and I can agree with that. There was also a new concept here for me, and it was from the representative of the Workers' Party Grethe G. Fossum – the ‘high refraction spiral’ was the new one. Yeah, if there's started such a right twist spiral, it was started in 1992 by the Workers' Party. I will refer you from the comments of the Workers' Party at the Innst. S. No 63 for 1992-93, where they say: ‘These members believe that a strong public sector is a competitive advantage for Norwegian business.’ – But then it comes: ‘In some areas it may be natural for public authorities to buy services on the private market. Although the public sector is responsible for a task, it does not necessarily have to perform it. It is necessary to provide for an appropriate assessment on a case-by-case basis.’» It's the exact same thing that's in the government statement this time, so it's just a continuation. That's why you're going to be a little bit skeptical when you talk about 30 years. The progress party would like to see us talk about ten years, because development has to go much faster than that, as what happens around us, which the Workers' Party also points to in its remarks in the 1992-93 vote. I referred earlier to the comments of the Progress Party in the same setting. Here we point in all these areas, based on the comments made by Carl I. Hagen in 1975, and from 1975 until today it has soon been 30 years. And now we're going to add up to the next 30 years to get the desired development. Another thing I think is very interesting and positive is that the Council of State in the statement uses the term ‘competition exposure’, while from the pulpit she uses the term ‘competition outsourcing’. I have the greatest sense of what the Council of State uses from the pulpit. There's also another area that hasn't been mentioned here, and that we might be able to look at. This is true of the fact that the public sector, and in particular in the primary municipalities, when they look realistically at the future, discovers that this is developing more and more with the outsourcing of competition and that we are moving in that direction. But in some cases now we see that different municipalities enter into agreements with their employees, agreements that have a duration of from two to four years, that employees should not be exposed to competitive outsourcing in any way. In the Nord-Trøndelag, there are now three municipalities that have done so in agreement with their employees. I think that is very worrying.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e906	To the previous speaker, it is clear that something will happen by 2030, and a lot is already going on. If you go through the administrative policy statement carefully, you will find that there are 18 entirely concrete measures. Not everyone is new, initiated by this government. There are some people who have been in the process; there are some who have been brought up again; there are some new measures, and there will be more when the projects in ‘Simplify Norway’ are presented later on beyond spring. I want to say something more in relation to the comment about IT, from Grethe G. Fossum, about how we're going to manage to care for those who can't use information technology, and that we haven't thought about them. We've been thinking about them. It's like today that very many, most of us can reach this information even if we don't have a personal machine. We have the school that has information technology systems -- that may not be good enough -- we have universities and libraries, and we also look at public service offices as a place where people might sit down and operate these types of machines themselves, it would be nice, or at least get access to the information through those who work there. And then we've also said, as the statement also says, that the resources that we can possibly release by using information technology, we'll be able to use to a large extent to facilitate a better service of those who won't be able to use it, because there will always be a part that won't be able to take advantage of it. So finally, in this government, we have stressed that people should not only be perceived as customers and clients of the welfare state, but also as active participants and citizens. The public can not just be a supermarket for the provision of services, we have to further develop the public as the arena for democratic processes, that's one of our main points. And in this context, it doesn't matter how we set up the administration. I think we can only create trust just through participation and participation. So, together with the users, with the citizens, and the administration, we're going to create a better Norway in the future – I think.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e917	So the debate is on case No. Three over. [[Footing, see page 3148]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e935	I have, with some concern, followed the development of the timetable in today's meeting, because it in a way symbolizes what is the problem of the state grant scheme, that it leads a somewhat hidden and confined life. However, I hope that the time frame will not create problems when it comes to clarifying the matter that I wanted to travel. The state grant scheme has long roots back in history, and I'm not going to make any attempt to pull up the long lines backwards. I'm going to be very careful to take on the cultural message, St.meld. No 61 for 1991-92, entitled ‘Culture in the Time’. The purpose of the State grant scheme is, with a background in St.prp. No 1 for 1986-87, Chapter. 332, as follows: ‘... to free capable women and men from the daily work of living so that they can sacrifice themselves for scientific or cultural purposes.’ This is a good formulation, but it is a very unpresis formulation, and it illustrates some of the problems with the inherited state grant scheme. It is in many ways a collection heat for a wide range of purposes. Looking at those who are currently in the State grant scheme, it will be seen that these are essentially two categories: earned cultural workers and researchers. On the research side, most of the members of the scheme are satisfied with a salary grant placed in the country’s wage regulation. In the case of cultural workers, very many are in favour of a lump sum grant, which is determined at the discretion of the ministry. If you look at how the scheme has been managed, you will see that it has also been affected by the changes that have been made in the ministerial structure from the 1980s onwards. I'm not going to go into detail on this point, but just sum up what changes have happened. Until the autumn of 1981, the grant to the State Grant Scheme was placed under Cape. 348, Grants for other scientific purposes, under the then Ministry of Church and Education. In the context of the disintegration of the former department of the Willoch Government, responsibility for higher education and research was transferred to the newly created Ministry of Culture and Science, and the State Grant Scheme naturally joined this department, where the grant was placed under Grant for other scientific purposes, new Cape. 368. Without having verified exactly the time, the state grant scheme was once transferred from the field of research to higher education in the last few years of the 1980s to Cape. 332, Joint costs for universities and colleges, and the sub-item put them together with research fellows. In connection with the changes made by the Syse government to the departmental structure, the responsibility for the scheme lay with the new Ministry of Church and Culture. From there it has followed with the current Ministry of Culture. One of the questions I would like to ignore the views of the Council of State is, as mentioned, whether the system should in future be more naturally placed under the Ministry of Church, Education and Research than under the Ministry of Sport and Culture. I would suggest – without myself having a strong position on what is the right place – that an opportunity can of course be to separate the two categories that make up the state grant scheme today: the one that concerns general cultural workers, and the one that concerns researchers and earned scientists. In this case, the last category will naturally be classified under the research department of the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, while the second category will be equally naturally classified under the current Ministry of Culture. However, the most important thing is not the formal link with the administration. The most important thing is that this scheme, because it is old and traditional, and because it is relatively loosely defined – and intended to be resolved, precisely in order to be able to capture individual needs – has led to the working conditions of those who become state fellows being dependent on general developments. It would be natural to consider giving an overhead allowance, which also ensures that those receiving a salary grant are given employment conditions that enable them to exploit their skills and workforce for the benefit of society. Furthermore, it is important that there be a greater predictability of the arrangement and that it be followed up in terms of the economic conditions, in the same way as in terms of positions of government in general. Personally, I could imagine that it would be close to carrying out an evaluation of the current state grant scheme, and that such an evaluation, at least for the majority of researchers, was left to the Norwegian Research Council, which would be an appropriate body to carry out such an evaluation. Such an evaluation could provide a basis for improvement of the scheme. The Ministry of Culture's budget for the current year is set out on page 49: ‘The State grant holders must apply each year for the renewal of the grant and report to the Ministry on the work they have carried out the previous year. The Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education, Education and Research will jointly assess some principles and practices relating to the management of the scheme.’ The request for such an analysis has been supported several times by the Committee in the annual budgetary positions in the Stortinget, and it is good that the budget proposal for the year promises that such an analysis will be carried out. However, I am excited about the Council's response to the question of whether this analysis will also address the question of the future ministerial location of the scheme and the possible separation of the different categories of state grants. It is important to highlight this scheme because, as I said at the outset, it is a system of long historical roots, which has given working conditions to very many deserved scientists and cultural workers in Norway over many decades. Therefore, it is also important at the threshold of a new millennium that we consider whether the scheme needs to be modernised and whether it is possible to provide guidance for the future use of state grants that allows society to get more for its investment, and not least that the individuals who are all highly deserved cultural workers and researchers can get better working conditions in the future than they have today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e973	In the 1999 budget proposal, the Ministry of Culture announced that, together with the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, it would review some principles and procedures relating to the management of the State grant scheme. In its budget configuration, the Committee asked that the Ministry also carry out an assessment of the size of the grants granted to individual state grant holders. State aid shall be allocated individually by the Stortinget in the annual budgetary decisions. They are awarded for one year, but the grant holders have in practice been continued in the scheme once they have been included in it. The State grant scheme has existed since the 1920s, and the Stortinge has not had any significant observations on the development of the scheme. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 12 for 1984-85, however, the Committee made comments. It said that it saw the system of state grants as a very decent and flexible scheme, but considered that, in the case of certain principles relating to the duration of State grants and the levels at which they should be granted, it would be reasonable if the Storting had the opportunity to discuss this on an appropriate occasion on the basis of material and views presented by the Government. The 1986 Proposition therefore gave a thorough mention of the scheme, in which the Ministry agreed in the Committee's view that the scheme was efficient and flexible and that, by not being linked to fixed rules or institutions, it gave room for discretion when assessing each candidate. The review also took into account, for example: pay and pension conditions and the cases in which scholarships are to cease. It was also said that the department assumed responsibility for those who were in the scheme, even though the scholarships were awarded for only one year. The Committee was pleased with the report and agreed with the views expressed by the Ministry. The following propositions contained only some adjustments with regard to pensions, etc., and the Committee has not made any specific comments. The Ministry of Culture has been responsible for the scheme since its establishment in 1982, but has worked closely with the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research on the scheme. In recent years, there have also been annual meetings with representatives of the State Grants and the Research Association, which have discussed aspects of the State Grant Scheme. The scheme was originally intended for people with a high academic, scientific background. The state scholarship holders were specialists in fields that did not naturally fall into teaching positions at our universities, libraries and colleges. However, the fields of competence and the work carried out by the scholarship holders had to have a certain historical and contemporary interest in granting state grants. It has been an important premise that the State grant scheme should be as open as possible, so that it also has the possibility of catching up persons whom the established systems cannot automatically place in the existing institutional and employment system. The award shall be made on a professional basis, on a proposal from one or more qualified persons who are familiar with the efforts of the candidate concerned. In other countries with such grants, general cultural aspects are often an award criterion. From the end of the 1980s, this has also been given greater importance to us, and more artists with a research-driven production have become state scholarship holders. In particular, this applies to authors. The scheme continues to provide women and men with special conditions of time for scientific or cultural independence from the framework of normal working conditions. This applies, for example: persons with a multidisciplinary or unusual field of work, which means that the mass of State scholarships is very diverse both in terms of education and activity. So there is a wide range of the overall knowledge and experience that our fellows represent. In 1999, there are 54 people in the scheme. Two types of state grant are granted. One is paid scholarship according to the regulations of the State. In 1999, these 22 scholarships, broken down by pay step 33 and 38, i.e. with a remuneration of 245 300 and 264 800 DKK per person respectively. years. The second category is so-called grants. In 1999, these amounts to a total of 32, ranging from 66 600 to 130 000 DKK per year. years. A starting point for the placement of state scholarships at wage levels has been the pay of higher education teachers/annuensis, together with a certain discretion in terms of e.g.: seniority. The amounts have been determined on a discretionary basis, including: with regard to possible combination with other gainful activities. Of course, the Ministry has also had to deal at all times with the budgetary resources allocated to the Ministry for the purpose. In 1999, the financial envelope for the scheme is 9.8 million. kr. Scholarships with scholarships in accordance with the State Regulation are registered in the State Pension Fund and withdraw from the scheme at the age of 67. Grants awarded before 1992 may continue to be life grants. Grants awarded from 1992 onwards will leave the scheme at the age of 67. In 1999, there are 18 pensioners out of the 32 in total who receive a grant. The purpose of the scheme is that it is naturally unusual compared to other state grant schemes under the Ministry of Culture, for example: State grant and guarantee income for artists. As state grantees represent so many different areas and different forms of competence, discretion will have to be given a great deal of space in the proposal for the award of new current candidates. The scholarship holders have wanted to make a number of changes and have expressed their views in meetings with the ministry, among others. they have identified areas such as remuneration, pensions, operational resources and institutional links. As I mentioned earlier, the Ministry of Culture itself has taken the initiative to review the State Grant Scheme together with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. This review will also cover the issues raised by the representative on the payroll. The two departments are now doing this. The Ministry of Culture held a meeting with the State Fellowships and the Research Association by April this year, where the Ministry of Church, Education and Research was also present. Consequently, the ministries are well aware of the views of state grant holders that will form a natural part of the evaluation of the scheme. Once the assessment has been carried out – of course, a specific question will also be addressed by the representative on the pay side – the result will be presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10.ana.ud930e1013	The meeting has run out of time. The meeting will now be cancelled. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
