ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e50	The representative of Aud Blattmann, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. From the Norwegian delegation to the Joint Parliamentary Delegation to the EFTA and EEA" meeting in Keflavik, Iceland, an application has been submitted, signed by the Head of the Delegation, the Grand Representative Haakon Blankenborg. That application concerns the days of 16 and 17 March to the representatives of Danielsen, Gunn Karin Gjul, Grete Knudsen, Brother Yngve Rahm, Siri Frost Sterri and Haakon Blankenborg. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for the Telemark County, Vivian Knarvik Bugge, is currently abroad and for that reason prevented from meeting in Stortinget. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Hordaland County: Gard FolkvordFor Uppland County: Kjell Ivar FossnesFor Oslo: Sissel DagsletFor Telemark County: Jens Arnfinn BrödsjømoenFor Sør-Trøndelag County: Tore Nordseth and Michael Momyr2. Michael Momyr is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets the representative Siri Frost Sterri.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e125	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e132	An important step forward in the late settlement of Norway’s Jews by the Norwegian community — those who survived the German Nazi Holocaust — in the years immediately after the war is being treated in the Stortinget. The proposition deals with a historical and moral settlement with the treatment in Norway of the economic liquidation of the Jewish minority during World War II. On the one hand, the settlement is carried out as a collective settlement and on the other as an individual settlement. The collective settlement proposes, first, an amount for securing Jewish culture and the future in Norway. Furthermore, support shall be provided beyond the borders of Norway to be remembered and to develop the tradition and culture that the Nazis wanted to eradicate, and a centre of expertise shall be established on the status and history of the Holocaust and on the general history of life-vision minorities. The individual settlement is proposed in the form of a payment of a recognition sum to persons affected by anti-Jewish measures in Norway during the war. A majority supports the Government and believes that a historical and moral settlement must be made with the economic liquidation and that this settlement must also be given an economic expression. The majority support the Government in the fact that there is a natural settlement in the form of a grant for common Jewish purposes. At the same time, those who were persecuted during the war are supported by an individual recognition sum. A total of 250 million is proposed for collective settlement. kr. The amount is divided into three areas: 1st@item: inlistbox An amount of 150 million. kr is proposed to be transferred to the registered Mosaic religious communities in Norway.2. That's $60 million. kr is proposed to be used in support of beyond Norway's borders to be remembered and to develop the tradition and culture that the Nazis wanted to eradicate and the amount is distributed through a fund.3. An amount of $40 million. It is proposed to set up and operate a centre of expertise for the study of the position of Holocaust and life-synthesis minorities in Norway. In the proposal, it is proposed that an estimated amount of 50 million be proposed. NOK 150 million. kr is assumed to be used for the repayment of debts and investments, including the replacement of tombs and kindergartens and the establishment of Jewish museum and library. The majority emphasise the importance of the knowledge and understanding of the history of the Jews in the Norwegian community that Jewish cultural offerings, both inside and outside Oslo, will convey. The majority assume that existing offers in this area are being carried out. Once we've expressed ourselves that concretely, it's because the committee is aware that considerable resources have been invested in building a museum in Trondheim, and we assume that this museum receives its legitimate share of the funds to be distributed. In order to ensure the intention of the proposition, the majority assumes that the funds are used in such a way that the interests of those who are not members of the Mosaic religious communities are also safeguarded. These are clear signals that all Jews in Norway will receive their legitimate share of the funds. The return on the remaining funds is assumed to be used for the operation and further development of organisations and institutions with the aim of ensuring a Jewish breadth and Jewish diversity in Norway. The majority assume that the Ministry of Justice receives an annual report that the funds have been used in accordance with Storting’s intentions, including the accounts audited by the State-authorised auditor. This is a stronger wording than the Government's proposal. The Government proposes that a recognition sum be paid as a standardised amount of DKK 200000 to those in Norway who were hit by anti-Jewish measures, for example. in the form of assets and assets confiscated by the occupying authority during World War II. Finally, the Committee has sought to ensure that the examination within the Committee is of the same degree of clarity and thoroughness as that of the promoter. I believe that, as the rapporteur-in-Office, we have managed to do so. The Committee – all parties other than the Advance Party – are united on everything in the vote. This settlement is described as a silent settlement. An economic settlement always has its limitations, and money is not everything, but this is an expression of Norwegian solidarity with Jews. I think that's the basis for saying that the settlement of the past provides good leadership for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e176	When the Storting today adopts this historic moral settlement in the form of an economic settlement, it will be a good day. It'll be a good day for our conscience, it'll be a good day for our morals and for our ability to take responsibility and take a settlement. Henrik Wergeland wrote the following about another case referred to by the fate of the Jews, which was being dealt with in the Stortinget more than 150 years ago: ‘The results of these negotiations contain an indication to the world of the cultural and civilisation point on which the Norwegian people are currently located. And the world will notice it." At that time, in 1842, it was about the constitutional prohibition that the Jesuits should be allowed into the kingdom. It did not win the majority to remove the ban then. Such words are, of course, too big about today's negotiations, but they say something about the Jews' history and persecution here in Norway too. And finally, this good day is here, 50 years after the assaults took place. Now it is that no settlement of claims can replace such abuses, but one tries through an economic settlement to take a historical moral settlement. And then you can't assume a strict legal, accounting consideration. First of all, it's not practicable. Moreover, there would have been a poor response to such a total liquidation that we faced in the war years, a total liquidation that meant the loss of the rights of the Jews, the loss of the ability to practice Judaism, the loss of freedom, the loss of culture and common taxes, the looting of life assurances that were redeemed. After it all was gone, the physical lives were also taken. That's this total liquidation we have to settle with. The Jews also came out particularly unfortunate in the settlement of claims that took place just after the war against those who had suffered economic losses. The Labour Party is therefore in favour of, as the rapporteur also stated, that we stand unanimously behind, individual cheap compensation for those who have suffered personal loss, and their heirs, in addition – and it is equally important – the collective settlement to ensure future Jewish diversity and culture in this country. The collective settlement must, of course, benefit everyone with Jewish ties. I am quite pleased and also proud that here in Norway we have a Mosaic religious community that has a unique character, in the sense that the religious community operates activities and activities that are inclusive of all Jews, regardless of religion. Of course, we expect the fund board now appointed to manage the fund's wealth from the broad perspective that it is the diversity of Judaism that is being cared for, and not just the activities of a special organization. Norway is the first country to make this kind of settlement, and fortunately, there is a lot in the field, suggesting that several countries will follow suit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e201	The representative Thomas said that she felt that this was a good day for our conscience. I don't feel like it. I don't believe either of us, nor Norway as a nation, is able to buy a good conscience. The way the Norwegian authorities have treated the Jews through history, and not least the involvement in the arrest of Norwegian Jews during the last war, will remain in history as a scourge, and will never be wiped away with money. If the state steals people's properties, it's only right and proper, yes, of course, that the state should settle for itself and replace the theft. Anything else would be fundamentally immoral. Therefore, it is true that Norwegian Jews who were deprived of properties during the last war are now being compensated for them. It should have just happened many, many years ago. However, the structure to which the majority of the population refers does not provide almost full compensation for the properties that were robbed of Jews. Some Jewish families can document losses of several million kroner, and now they get back 200,000 kroner, i.e. only a small part of the theft. At the same time, other Jews, who had only insignificant economic losses, get the same sum. It is a result of a socialist cohesion policy that must be deeply unfair to those Jews who today can document millions of losses. The Progress Party therefore wants a fairer distribution of the financial recognition allowance with a minimum amount of DKK 50000 and a maximum amount of 2 million. kr. Because it would be difficult for many people to obtain concrete evidence of the present value of the depreciated properties, a probability assessment of the loss should be sufficient. I have heard that it has been argued that some Jewish families will still not be able to prove that they have suffered a million losses even if that were the case, and that it would be unreasonable when these families cannot be compensated, that other families who can document the loss will be compensated. It's an argument that I think is unreasonable. No one can be harmed by the fact that Norwegian society settles in cases where possible. Moreover, the Progress Party agrees that collective compensation should also be provided for in order to remedy the collective damage to Jewish culture resulting from the ethnic cleansing and destruction of synagogues and other cultural memories, and therefore proposes that it should be set at 250 million in addition to 250 million. NOK 50 million to replace seized property. kr to a centre of expertise for the study of the Holocaust. Finally, I would like to comment on the proposals put forward by the Advance Party in the vote. As far as voting is concerned, it would be natural to put I in the proposal of the Advance Party against I in the vote. As far as II is concerned, it would be natural for the Progress Party to vote subsidiaryly for the vote, and I would ask that this be made possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e214	Jan Simonsen has taken up the proposal he referred to, and the president has noticed his wish in the matter of voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e217	We're a lot of people who describe what's happening in Stortinget today, as a historical event. It is gratifying that there is also such broad agreement between the parties on a historical and moral settlement to the treatment in Norway of the economic liquidation of the Jewish minority during World War II. I, who grew up after the war, have learned a lot about the cruel attempt at Jewish extermination that took place. However, the economic side of the case received little attention. For the sake of the conscience of history and our people, I am pleased with the decision we are going to take today in the national assembly of the country. For the Christian People's Party, this is not about buying free of guilt, actively or passively on us as people during the war. For us, it is not a matter of distributing money to those covered by the settlement, either, that ‘you are now satisfied’. No, it's about a historical and moral settlement with the treatment in Norway of the economic liquidation of the Jewish minority during World War II. Of course, it is in this both an 'excuse me!' and a 'Leave us our fault!' in relation to the Holocaust. But it's primarily a settlement with the economic liquidation. Therefore, the historical and moral settlement is expressed through financial allocation. When people are liquidated or subjected to torture and systematic extermination, it is in each case about individuals affected. Around the individual there are families who suffer and know the pain. For the Jewish families it often happened that one or no one survived the road to the gas chambers. When, during the last world war, assets belonging to the individuals we refer to here were confiscated or confiscated, yes, it is natural that the settlement we adopt today also has an individual side. When the majority relies on a standardised payment, it's related to the fact that only some families would be able to provide a proper overview of the losses they suffered. For example, this may be the case. index regulators. But it would most likely carry the wrong of a place of suspicion, injustice and discrimination as a result. The Christian People's Party believes that in such a case, with a relatively long time perspective and a varying lack of evidence, it is most right to see everyone alike. We do not do this to minimize or conceal that there was a difference in the value and extent of the assets and wealth taken away from the individual. But the replacement expresses that this is a recognition amount and not an accurate settlement for actually proven losses. At the same time, what happened during the war was action against the Jewish community in Norway as a whole: the Jews were to be exterminated. Fortunately, the goal was not achieved, although many who were killed did not have surviving heirs. Based on these facts, it is natural that settlement also has a collective form. The distribution of the 450 million. kr entered into this historical and moral settlement is based on economic calculations and with the wish that the funds should serve the best of the Jews, to secure their culture and future in Norway. But there is also a desire to contribute to national and international understanding of the importance of the tradition and culture that the Nazis wanted to eradicate. This shall be done in different ways and with different instruments. Even today, school classes in Trondheim are visiting an inaugural historical collection and documentation related to the locations of the Mosaic Religion there. This needs to be expanded and made available to the greatest possible extent, so that new generations can see, reflect, learn and understand. We want a future with roots in history, where fathers' sins are not repeated by the children. The Christian People's Party wants this historical and moral settlement in relation to the economic liquidation of the Jewish minority during World War II to contribute to it. I recommend with the attitude of this committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e238	All speakers have stressed that this is a historic day. It is then striking that you have set five minutes of speaking time for each party, and have made this a mini-debate. This is a historic day, and it should have been a day when the Storting had gone through this matter in its full breadth, considered our relationship with the Jews as a minority in Norway, and also looked at what this case says about Norway's ability to handle other minorities. This is also a matter of great international interest. There is probably almost nothing the Storting does in this year, which is going to be noticed so much internationally, but so little in Norway. In other words, we should discuss this with the greatest thoroughness. It is a historic day, because it is a historical excuse Norway is now asking for our Jewish minority. Of course, it was Hitler-Germany and the Nazis, and to the seventh and last Hitler personally, who was the driving force in the extermination of the Jews. But we cannot ignore the fact that almost all Norwegian Jews were arrested by the Norwegian police. Of course, the policemen who did it did not know in full what fate the persons they arrested would encounter, but they could have no doubt that something terrible would happen to them. In other words, it was the Norwegians who took part with duty or zeal in the Norwegian version of the exterminations, and it deserves our Jewish minority to be apologized for from Norway. And then, when the war was over, and you had to go into the replacement issues, we went away in shift light, legal considerations and accountants. We forgot the atrocities committed against the Jews, and tried to compare with what was also committed by assaults and atrocities against the North. But apart from Telavåg, there was no place in Norway where people tried to wipe out an entire population. Neither can the abominations of Telavåg be compared to those of the Jews. At least to the seventh and last – 50 years after – we have been able to make excuses that also have financial consequences. But although this is good and joyous, and even though both the government of Jagland, the government of Bondevik and the majority of the judiciary committee deserve tribute for what has now happened, we cannot ignore the fact that it was going completely wrong. It was going completely wrong when the Skarpnes Committee came up with its setting. It was a selection that went astray in accountant considerations and shift light 50 years after the end of the war, rather than looking at the moral, political, philosophical and dignified settlement this matter required. And it also kept – on a much smaller scale – going a little wrong in the Justice Committee, where random individuals and relatively peripheral international organisations began to be called as hearing bodies in line with those representing the Jewish minorities themselves. If we transferred what happened in the Judicial Committee, to our church in Christian context, it would be as if, at the same time as views from the church meetings and the episcopal college were also obtained some individuals who claimed to represent Christendom. And while calling for the World Council of Churches, or not calling them at all, a relatively random group was called up to represent a unique position within Christianity. This way of dealing with a minority is serious, because it says something about our ability as majority Christians – Protestants, or what one now chooses to call us – to handle minorities. Another time there may be Muslims, Hindus, Buddhists or other religious minorities involved. Now you go into a settlement that I support. I fully support the majority vote of the committee, and so does SV. We support what the Bondevik government has presented, but it must be clear that this settlement must now be implemented as it stands, in close cooperation with and under the decisive influence of the Mosaic Religion. There are so few Jews in Norway that it is not possible to operate one kindergarten and one orthodox institution, one for reformed and one for conservative Jews, as is the case, for example. can do in Israel. In Norway, Jewish communities will only survive if they stick together across contradictions, across religious tendencies, and it survives the Mosaic religious community. That's also the basis, I think, for their future existence under the pressure of a majority culture that the Norwegian always puts on a minority. However, despite the necessary self-determination that we are not properly taken due to the time, I will nevertheless say to the seventh and last that this is a joyous day, because we have now finally been brought into port this matter and have received first and foremost the moral, but then the economic settlement with the fate of Norwegian Jews suffered.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e257	The majority is currently discussing the position of the Judicial Committee on a historical and moral settlement with the treatment in Norway of the economic liquidation of the Jewish minority during World War II. The left agrees with the Committee's opinions and will commend the Government for having supported the proposal by the minority in the Jødebo Committee. The left is pleased that there is a broad majority behind this option. The left believes that a historical and moral settlement is right, and that the settlement must also be given an economic expression. The Left supports the Government’s and the Committee’s view that a settlement is made in relation to Jewish society, given that the economic and physical liquidation was directed towards the Jewish community in Norway as a whole. In addition, the Committee emphasises that many Jews who were killed do not have surviving heirs. It is therefore natural that a settlement for common Jewish purposes is also provided, in addition to the individual settlement. The left will join these assessments. The collective settlement totals 250 million. SEK is allocated to three areas: 150 million. kr shall be used to secure Jewish culture and the future in Norway, administered by the registered Mosaic religious communities in Norway. The funds are intended mainly for educational, research and information purposes. The left will stress that it is very important that these funds benefit all Norwegian Jews, including Jews outside the registered Mosaic religious communities. At the same time, the Left fully believes that those responsible for managing the funds will take these considerations into account. 60 million. kr shall go to a fund to support beyond the borders of Norway in order to remember and develop the tradition and culture that the Nazis wanted to eradicate. Forty million. kr shall be used for the establishment and operation of a centre of expertise for the study of the position of holocaust and life-vision minorities in Norway. The centre shall be politically and ideologically neutral. In the individual settlement, a recognition sum shall be paid out as a standardised amount of DKK 200000 to those affected by anti-Jewish measures, such as the withdrawal of assets and wealth. Spouse and heirs of life can enter the place of the deceased. The left is pleased that the settlement contains an individual and a collective part, which will take care of both the individual and the Jewish communities as a whole. It is also gratifying that measures outside Norway are supported. The position of the Committee is mainly well received by the Jewish community in Norway and is referred to as a clear settlement. The Norwegian settlement was followed with great interest also outside Norway. Norwegian handling can serve as an example of how a historical and moral settlement can be carried out. The cruel abuses committed against the Jews and other minorities during World War II can never be made right again. However, the moral and economic settlement of the treatment of Norwegian Jews during the war can make a worthwhile contribution to moral and economic upliftment to the Jewish community in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e287	The Judicial Committee did not, of course, invite any person to attend hearings in the course of this case. We have had regular hearings with three organisations who themselves had asked to be consulted. In addition to that, I am aware that individual representatives have had discussions on the matter. But as far as I can judge, the matter has been dealt with in every way in the Committee on Legal Affairs. From the point of view of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, it has been an underlying premise, as I have seen throughout the debate, that we must deal with this matter with the dignity that the matter deserves, but that it simply requires. That is why I fundamentally disagree with what Erik Solheim said that this matter would serve in a broad, long debate in the Stortinget. I cannot, with my best will, understand that a whole day's vocabulary, which could very easily become a collection of tumultuous words, could contribute to a worthy end to this matter. Here I think the nature of the matter, the seriousness of the matter, what has happened, is more than enough in itself, without us trying to put more or less successful formulations on it. We take a settlement as best we can, both morally and economically, with an event that of course, no matter what we may say, can never be made good again. I therefore believe that we can be satisfied with what has happened. I don't think a debate, something in the direction of a polemics that it was going wrong in the sample that dealt with the matter, and a claim that it was going wrong in the Justice Committee, could have removed the impression that someone had. But from my point of view, I want to establish that it did not go wrong. We started from what we thought was reasonable from the sample that had dealt with the matter, and we discussed – as I said before – the matter in the Justice Committee and came to a rather unanimous position on all the essential points. What I should say – and in fact I fully agree with Erik Solheim – is that, on the part of the Justice Committee, trust in the Mosaic Religion has been expressed. I also agree with the reasoning that I felt Erik Solheim came along with, that it is difficult to imagine any organization representing a group on a broader and more aggregate basis than the two Mosaic religious communities do. That is why we have given the Mosaic religious communities the power to manage this relatively large sum of money, and we feel convinced that they are going to do it in a way that is in line with the Storting's intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e298	There is an important historical decision The Stortinget today is invited to do by giving its support to St.prp. No 82 for 1997-98. The government attaches great importance to completing this historical and moral settlement with the treatment in Norway of the economic liquidation of the Jewish minority during World War II. The government wants this to set a worthy point for the settlement. I am therefore very pleased with the broad connection the proposition has received during the committee treatment here in Stortinget. The settlement shall be based primarily on a broad moral approach, giving a form and content which take account of the specific nature of the matter. In the view of the Government, such settlement cannot be limited to economic considerations. There can be no doubt that the genocide aspect puts the Jews in a special position among the many victims of the German occupying power during World War II. The economic liquidation of the Jewish group as a whole was unique, and the organized arrest, deportation and physical destruction was a genocide. Since the Jewish persecution was intended to destroy the Jewish group in Norway in total, the economic and physical liquidation must be seen as two sides of the same case. The injustice against the Jewish people during the war can never be made good again, but the government believes that a historical and moral settlement must be taken with the economic liquidation, and that this settlement must also be given an economic expression. This is carried out by collective and individual settlements. The collective settlement should stress that a settlement is now being made in relation to the Jewish community in Norway as a whole, in particular because economic and physical liquidation was a measure aimed at the Jews in Norway as a group. In addition to private Jewish property being confiscated, the Jewish institutions and religious centers in Norway were economically liquidated. In addition, the fact that many Jews who were killed did not have surviving heirs. Against this background, an economic settlement in the form of a grant for common Jewish purposes is natural, both nationally and internationally. In assessing and determining the total amount of collective settlement, the Government has inter alia: taken into account that Jewish families as a whole were wiped out and consequently no individual settlement was made. A total of 250 million is proposed for collective settlement. kr, broken down into three areas. It's going to transfer 150 million. kr to the Mosaic religious communities in Norway. The amount shall be used to ensure Jewish culture and the future in Norway. And then we're going to go 60 million. kr to be used to support Jewish institutions or projects outside the borders of Norway. One of the most important lessons from World War II and Holocaust is how vulnerable minorities are to prejudice, hatred and persecution, which in the ultimate consequence led to the cruelly executed and most systematic genocide of history. The best means of combating prejudices is factual information, which requires a broad knowledge of the minorities in our society. An amount of $40 million. Therefore, it is proposed to set up and operate a documentation and expertise centre to create competence in Norway on holocaust in general, and specifically on the Norwegian chapter of the history of holocaust. The government, through an offer for a recognition sum, wants to support the individuals affected by the persecution in Norway during World War II. Therefore, it is proposed to pay out a recognition sum as a standardised amount of EUR 200000 to those affected by anti-Jewish measures in Norway. Many of those who seized their assets and businesses are now dead. Therefore, spouses and heirs of life are assumed to be able to enter the place of death and the amount is allocated among them according to the distribution rules of the Inheritance Act. It can rightly be claimed that this settlement is too late. Over 50 years after the end of the war, almost only the descendants of the Jews who were directly affected are left. However, it is important that a settlement is finally made with the way in which the Jews in Norway were treated. We must realize that the special situation of the Jews after the war was not taken into account as it should have been. This responsibility rests on us as a nation, and the decision of the Great Britain today is therefore of the utmost importance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e322	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e325	For the sake of order: in this debate I need to respond to Simonsen's claim that it could be interpreted as if someone here thought it was about 'buying a good conscience'. It is at best a misunderstanding on the part of Simonsen. My reference to conscience goes, of course, on the will of the Norwegian authorities to admit, to be willing to complain and to take responsibility and to provide compensation. Treatment of the Jews throughout Norway's history, and especially during the last world war, will always be a very dark chapter in our history, no matter what we have to do and say in retrospect. And the settlement that we're taking here today is, of course, a concession of that very thing. In addition, I would like to correct a mere premonition during my previous post, where, under the reference to Wergeland and his mention of the treatment of the Jewish cause in the Stortingen in 1842, I used the word ‘jesuitten’ instead of ‘the Jews’. The Jesuits were also excluded from the country for a period of time, but of course they were the Jews I meant.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e332	It is underlined that it is a historic landmark day when the Storting decides today to implement a settlement with the economic liquidation of the Jewish population in Norway during World War II. The fact that the settlement is given an economic expression in itself underlines that it is not intended to be adequate for the total damage caused to the Jewish minority. It wouldn't be possible in any way either. Nevertheless, it is gratifying that there is a cross-political agreement to implement such a settlement and that there is a broad majority behind the proposed form of settlement, that it should be both an individual and a collective settlement. However, there is one point in the setting that I would like to comment on a little bit more. That's the 40-million-dollar allocation. The establishment and operation of a centre of expertise for the study of the position of Holocaust and life-synthesis minorities in Norway. From the proposition, it might look like this is supposed to be applied in one place, i.e. in Oslo. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee has, to a great extent, underlined the importance of furthering knowledge of the history of the Jews in Norway as cultural services both inside and outside Oslo, and that existing offers in this area should be maintained. In this context, I show that there is already an officially approved museum in Trondheim in cooperation between the Jewish synagogue and NTNU. Although the centre is currently small, it has already been well visited, not least by school students and students, thus representing an important contribution to achieving this part of the settlement. I am pleased to note, after contact with the members of the committee, that although Trondheim is not explicitly mentioned in the vote, those who are to distribute the funds further will be able to ensure that the Trondheim Centre is also covered by them. It has to be taken into account that about a quarter of the Jews who were deported from Norway during the war just came from the Trondheims area. Then we stand together in the desire that the settlement should also have a bearing on the understanding of the historical outrage that struck the Jewish people, not just here in Norway, but all over the world.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e343	Several have not asked for the floor and the debate on substance. 1 is over. [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e359	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2322]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e375	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2322]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e391	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2322]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e399	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e405	During the debate, Mr Simonsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e609	There is a vote on Roman number II in the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e638	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Odd Eriksen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 4 March 1999: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with proposals to ensure the legal right to influence of the trusted resident representatives.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e651	President! I voted wrong. I should have voted against it, but I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e658	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e665	The President assumes that this must mean that the proposal, by 54 votes to 52, has not been accepted. If there's no margin, the president, if anyone asks for it, will let the vote go again. At least it's noding from Mr. Crowley's office. Nymo, and then the president has good reasons to assume that we should take the vote again!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e679	There is a vote on the proposal by the representative Karin Andersen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 4 March 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to design a transitional arrangement for the increase in rent for persons who, in the event of a change in the law, occupy dwellings covered by Chapter II of the Husleiegesetz [[‘the strict regulation’]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e692	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Ågot Valle, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 4 March 1999: ‘In order to improve the legal certainty of asylum seekers, the Stortinget Government asks to consider establishing a centre of expertise on the effects of torture, as well as on the treatment of trauma and injury caused by torture.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e697	Erik Solheim – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e700	In view of the many positive reactions that have come to light in the proposal, we would ask that the proposal be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e705	This means that the proposal is being reformed and transformed into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘In order to improve the legal certainty of asylum seekers, the Government is advised to consider establishing a centre of expertise on the effects of torture, as well as on the treatment of trauma and injury caused by torture.’ The proposal is then submitted to the Government without a vote of the facts. – It is considered biphasic.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-11.ana.ud310e720	There is no record.
