ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e105	The representative Per Ove Wideth, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Ingrid Fiskaa, has taken the seat. On Friday 18 June, the representative of Gunnar Schaug submitted an application for leave to take part in the Kieler Woek after an invitation. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the commodity Morten Olsen shall be called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e135	The President will propose the election of two presidents of the Stortinges meeting on Thursday and Friday – and will consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e140	I propose Asmund Kristoffersen and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e145	Asmund Kristoffersen and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen are unanimously elected as chairpersons of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings. The representative of Gunhild Eyegen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e150	I want to make suggestions from Sylvia Brustad and myself that caring people who move to a municipality are guaranteed the same access to the hospital or nursing home as the municipality's other residents.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e155	The representative of Thore Aksel Nistad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e158	On behalf of Christopher Stensaker and myself, I want to submit a Document No. 8-proposal to open the railway system to other actors.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e164	The representative of Grete Knudsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e167	On behalf of Sylvia Brustad and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ensure equivalent school provision for, among other things. special education, teaching timepieces and sharing hours.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e172	The proposals put forward will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e184	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 20 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines with up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e195	The starting point of the Labour Party is that we want free world trade based on a regulation that ensures a common set of international driving rules, in a world economy that is becoming increasingly globalized. International rules will always be better than no rules – because then there are the strongest who win. Or, in another way, international obligating agreements are better than international anarchy. Norway has also strongly advocated multilateral trade agreements rather than bilateral ones. Bilateral trade or investment agreements have often been agreements between former colonial powers and colonies and are hardly particularly favourable to qualitative aspects such as professional rights or the safeguarding of the environment and natural resources of developing countries. The Labour Party is essentially in line with the conclusions of the Foreign Minister's statement on the forthcoming WTO negotiations, including a broad round of negotiations. The World Trade Organisation is working for a liberalised world trade but with clear common and equal driving rules between countries. It can be said that the WTO is based on the same principles as the EEA Agreement in Europe and the internal market: State regulation is ok, but driving rules must be such as to ensure a level playing field across borders. For the movement of workers, it is important that trade agreements do not favour countries that benefit from competitive advantages in the event of a breach of professional rights or in the event of exploitation of resources and unacceptable working conditions. Extended international legislation contributes to more equal and predictable conditions of competition and strengthens export opportunities for each country. But this must benefit more than the present industrialised countries. A very important aspect of international trade rules is to ensure market access for the least developed countries, the so-called MUL countries, preferably by positive discrimination. The EU has put in place a general system of tariff preferences, the GSP, which means that the MUL countries get particularly low trade conditions by introducing differentiated rates of duty on a scale from and with total exemption from the very poorest countries. The scheme also includes specific social and environmental clauses, which should help the preferential countries to achieve better conditions in these fields. I can also stress the importance of the dialogue that the Nordic countries in particular have had with developing countries on precisely minimum working conditions, bans on child labour, etc. I think such a dialogue is also important in the processes ahead of us. The country organisation has stated in its consultation opinion that free trade must also involve the production of goods in freedom. In other words, the concept of free trade becomes meaningless if it can be based on a breach of professional rights. The rights enshrined in the seven core ILO conventions must be the cornerstone of free world trade. Moreover, since 1996, Norway has been working for the WTO to set up its own working group to discuss work standards issues. It will ensure that the WTO Secretariat is obliged to continue its work on the subject even after the ministerial meeting is over. We assume from the Labour Party that Norway is also working to establish a working group this time. An important development today is regional cooperation structures, including a comprehensive network of regional trade agreements of a different nature. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we must ensure that the development of regional agreements takes place in such a way that it builds up and does not conflict with the multilateral trading system. Finally, it is difficult to talk about political driving rules in the international community without including such a significant part of the global economy as the investment represents. We have noted that the negotiations on the MAI agreement have failed. But we believe it is important and necessary to get back to work to achieve a multilateral investment regulatory framework, based on the same criteria that I have now reviewed: labour standards, the environment, the poorest countries, etc. I would ask the Foreign Minister to take the necessary initiative to get this process back on track.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e218	In its statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs took on two very important starting points: 1st@item: inlistbox Ensuring the best interests of Norway in the negotiations.2. Norway is a small country with a relatively small and open economy. For this reason, binding international legislation that makes all countries equal is important to get in place. Of course, everyone in this Chamber wants to take the best possible care of Norwegian interests. Nevertheless, one enough will see that the definition of what is in Norway’s interest cracks. The promotion party will be based on the wish to provide the best possible stability and market access to Norwegian companies and consumers. In order to achieve this, it is important that we are conscious of our status as a small country with a vulnerable foreign economy. In view of this simple fact, we agree with the Government that a round of negotiations should be established, which also focuses on market access and public procurement legislation. With regard to the issue of public acquisitions, the Progress Party agrees with the Government that greater transparency could contribute to the reduction of corruption and increased efficiency. Interestingly, therefore, the developing countries, who receive large sums of money in gifts to sort out their own economy and development, are the ones that are most sceptical of such transparency. In this context, it may be tempting to draw conclusions from these facts, but I will leave it. In any case, 15 pst. of the world market in public acquisitions. This in itself provides the basis for the desirability of market access and clearly non-discriminatory trade. From the point of view of Norway, it would be desirable for all goods and services to be covered by reciprocal market access. As you know, customs duties are not an immaterial issue in this context. Therefore, the Progress Party is in no way against the Government proposing that the expected customs negotiations cover all industrial products. However, it would be appropriate to point out that it cannot be in accordance with Norway’s interests to limit customs negotiations to this. Norway would be best served if all goods were included in these negotiations. For a small country with an open economy, it is very risky to legitimise restrictions and exemptions based on conditions that do not aim at freer world trade. Such a legitimisation could quickly counter Norway and Norwegian interests in a slightly cosy way. The Minister of Foreign Affairs made this problem well visible. Simplification of border controls and trade-related procedures is important, in order to avoid unnecessary delays and the affluence of goods crossing national borders. At the same time, tariff reductions are important for Norwegian textiles and for fish and the market shares of fish products. On the other hand, the Government wants restrictions on international trade in agricultural products based on the desire to protect Norwegian agriculture and on the alleged pattern of residence. These are, to the most extent, trade barriers based solely on protectionist arguments. In view of this, it is not surprising that many countries suspect the desire for environmental standards and the like to be only trade restrictions with the corresponding starting point. The best solution is likely to be a voluntary labelling system suitable for providing end-users with the necessary information on the content and origin of the product. Similarly, I have a strong understanding that many countries, including the world's poorest, consider working standards to be barriers to trade wrapped up and presented in the presence of the poorest and the weakest. It is precisely the weakest who lose the most if they are deprived of market shares and the possibility of further development and growth, a growth that is crucial for the population of these poor countries. One must be conscious of work, etc., but hardly any good results can be achieved from the boycotting of poor countries' products, and this in the light of some other countries' assessment of what is appropriate employment and wages. U.S. countries must also be able to benefit from their comparative advantages. If Norway legitimises such barriers to trade, I find it difficult to see how Norwegian traders can truthfully claim that other countries should not be able to take account of other substituting factors as a cause of barriers to trade. Just as negative closures would lead to resource depletion, so preferential trade could quickly do the same. Adopting legislation that favours individuals will have to keep others out of the way. Therefore, there is nothing that can be described as positive discrimination. There will always be at least one party for which this is not positive. And then we are left with pure discrimination. The progress party will not participate in negotiating that, for example: ships registered in developing countries shall have more favourable framework conditions than ships registered in Norway. Perhaps the same problem is that the countries we reportedly assist will adapt to the fact that they enjoy privileges and thus get all the problems back on the day the privileges may disappear. The Norwegian negotiating strategy must be based on Norway's total dependence on liberal, well-functioning world trade. Therefore, the government must not make arrangements which in any way threaten a liberal world trade with good market access for all goods and services with a built-in customs regime. In other words, it is not possible to fight for free trade where it is currently appropriate for Norway, and then to fight for trade barriers in other areas. As is well known, the Progress Party considers free trade to mean more than effective trade between countries. Free trade depends on mutual contact, understanding and adaptation. Therefore, free trade may have a very important role to play in contributing to a peaceful world society. An old word says that where goods do not cross borders, tanks do. It goes without saying that upstream exporters do not want to shoot potential customers. Perhaps as important as this is that free trade and the market economy have a demoralising effect. There will be an end-user choice between several alternatives that will ultimately become crucial. Given the possibility of free choice in terms of goods and services, the requirement of free choice in terms of state and government will also have to be enforced. Experience also shows that a real, free private economy leads to the very demand for political freedom. It must be an objective that as many countries as possible join and form free and liberal world trade. That is why the Progress Party wants all countries that can follow the terms of membership to be included in the WTO. The progress party is also of the opinion that it is desirable that the forthcoming round of negotiations should not exceed three to four years. As the Government also assumes, it is important that the trading system keeps up with world trade. Now it is a fact that it is easier to practice and to maintain a non-discriminatory regulatory framework based on a high level of free trade and built-in customs walls than to deal with a trade regime based on special regulations, including exceptions and grey areas. In both the short and the long term, Norway’s position will be best served with as liberal free trade as possible, not only in terms of our exports and cost-effectiveness, but also in terms of the diversity of what we can then create internally in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e272	There has been a debate on both the WTO and its precursors to GATT, but there is little doubt that, in the years that GATT and the WTO have regulated the international trading system, open international trade has contributed both to economic growth and prosperity and to an important international networking. The liberalisation of trade based on a global regulatory framework that is similar for all countries has, together with reductions in costs in international transport and communication, been of great importance in creating interdependence between national economies. However, these developments have also not been without challenges and concerns, particularly with regard to key issues and relationships with the poorest countries. For Norway, which has a small and open economy, it is very important that we have framework conditions that make Norwegian business competitive. The WTO legislation has a strong influence on the Norwegian framework conditions, and it is important that we work actively in the WTO and neighbouring organisations to follow up the framework conditions in a way that benefits Norwegian interests and Norwegian business. The Christian People's Party emphasises the importance of increasing social, environmental and health policy concerns and consumer concerns in the next WTO negotiations. With regard to agriculture, we emphasise that we have an agricultural agreement that still ensures national action for the formulation of agricultural policy. It is also of great importance to ensure tariff reductions outside Europe and in relation to certain markets and product groups where Norwegian exporters are currently facing customs barriers. Improving these conditions will be important not only in relation to increased value creation but also in order to secure jobs and create new ones. I am pleased that the Government underlines the importance of further developing the WTO Agreement so that this can meet the specific needs of the poor developing countries. For developing countries, it will be important to be able to improve market access for export products. This is an essential prerequisite for contributing to the well-being and growth of these countries. At the same time, developing countries need to be able to participate in WTO work, and implementation must take place at a pace appropriate to the specific constraints of these countries, but also opportunities and resources. There are several new areas of negotiation where developing countries are skeptical about their implementation in WTO legislation, because one is afraid that these new rules will constitute a hidden form of protectionism for the benefit of rich countries. I understand this scepticism. A binding regulation on international trade is of great importance to Norway. The challenge for the WTO in the future will largely depend on how this organisation can achieve a common understanding and a common starting point among its members for the negotiating areas ahead. On the Norway side, we want a broadest possible starting point for the negotiations, but we see that this can create difficult balances and challenges, especially in the case of Norwegian interests, which must be balanced against our desire to better facilitate the conditions in the forthcoming rounds for developing countries. This is what we're talking about, for example. environmental considerations, labour standards, investment and the so-called MUL countries, the least developed countries. It will be an important challenge for the Government to find solutions that balance the interests of these countries in a good way. With regard to globalisation, online commerce, patenting and competition policy, too, these areas are clearly putting the organisation to a high test in order to find a balanced solution between the continuing needs of industrialised countries for networking and development and, as I have emphasised in my speech, the consideration of the least developed countries, the poorest countries, which need to be more targeted in the next round of WTO negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e291	The Foreign Minister's statement on the forthcoming WTO negotiations is unclear, and bears the mark of the internal disagreement between the government parties that we know exists. There are, in particular, two aspects in the statement that the Right will address. The first concerns agriculture. Here, at best, the government is unclear, at worst unrealistic, as to what we can expect from the impact of agriculture. As stated by the Government in the statement, ‘a number of developing countries want increased market access for their agricultural products’. That ‘this will make agricultural negotiations more difficult’, I think the government is right. On the right, the central objective of agriculture is to produce collective goods such as food security, cultural landscapes and scattered housing. However, the question is whether, with today's Norwegian agricultural policy, we will be able to take this into account while taking into account developing countries. Article 20 of the WTO Agreement on Agriculture states that we have an obligation to progressively reduce support and protection measures, while taking into account non-commercial aspects. As the State Secretary-General also stated, there is little doubt that the parties to this negotiating round must be expected to go beyond the existing commitments. However, the government does not analyse the consequences of further liberalisation of trade in agricultural products. The EU has promoted a proposal before the WTO Ministerial Meeting in Seattle in November/December to adopt, within the WTO framework, a mechanism that obliges developed countries to extend – yes, even duty-free – market access for all export products within the end of the negotiation round, i.e. within three to four years. The EU proposes that such free trade access be implemented either through specific agreements under the Customs Preference System or through the introduction of bilateral or multilateral events. 60 pst. exports to the EU, Japan and the United States of America. The main responsibility therefore lies with developed countries, although most developed developing countries have also been asked to contribute to better market access for LDCs. To the right, if we were to oppose such a binding proposal, Norway would, as one of the world's richest industrialised countries, be in a strange light. However, I am afraid that the negotiating position the Government is putting up with prevents us from participating in such a promise for the MUL countries. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to explain how Norway will deal with the EU proposal. The other applies to investments. The World Trade Organisation (WTO) State Secretary Committee, led by the Central Party of Åslaug M. Haga, recommended that Norway contribute to the WTO's work on developing rules for international investment. The committee even considered that if negotiations on WTO legislation were to prove impossible, Norway should be open to participate in a multi-national negotiation process, given that both developed and developing countries participated on a broad basis. In other words, the selection concluded that Norway, as a country with growth in its foreign investment, would be served by such a common regulatory framework. The reactions to the State Secretary’s Committee’s conclusion were not expected, and the reactions were particularly from the Central Party. The government has therefore come to a different conclusion from the State Secretary’s Committee. Indeed, the increase in foreign direct investment is greater than the increase in international trade. These investments take place on the basis of a very unbridled and comprehensive contract conglomerate — there are about 1800 bilateral investment agreements that do not establish any common basic rules applicable in this growing part of the international economy. Therefore, the right considers it important to engage in negotiations on an international investment regulatory framework. The experience of the MAI negotiations told us that developing countries need to be ensured broad participation in the process. Therefore, the OECD was likely to be a too tight framework for such negotiations. The WTO is better suited. While a number of developing countries have expressed their skepticism correctly, a number of developing countries also see the need to be able to challenge investors on the basis of a multilateral obligatory network. That is why the Right believes that the Government must contribute to this becoming part of the mandate for the forthcoming WTO negotiations. I am referring to the fact that the Labour Party also expressed something similar in its statement, and I therefore expect the Minister for Foreign Affairs to confirm in his statement that he has noticed what a majority in Stortinget here means.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e314	Obligatory legislation on international trade is important for Norway, which has a small but at the same time very open economy. And although there may be reason to put a critical light on parts of the WTO process, the option, namely to stand outside the process, would represent an unacceptable uncertainty factor for Norwegian business and for Norwegian economy. The fact that the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, currently has 134 members means that most developed countries are benefiting from an international regulatory framework aimed at ensuring as much equivalent trade conditions as possible. The fact that most WTO countries are developing countries shows that not least the poor countries see the importance of such an organisation. At the same time, 134 WTO countries represent a diversity of cross-cutting interests. The forthcoming negotiations will therefore be marked by rope drawing and fighting to safeguard the interests of individual countries and groups of countries. For this reason, it is important for Norway to link alliances that can provide the best starting point for safeguarding our national interests and increasing the potential for impact on the more qualitative aspects of trade, primarily for health, the environment, consumers and districts; In the Adultås Declaration, the Centre Parties say that they will: ‘work to further develop and improve the WTO Agreement so that it takes more social..., environmental policy and health and consumer considerations’.» The pre-post-fections before the forthcoming round of negotiations show that this is an ambitious and demanding strategy. The main challenge for Norway, which wants to be a driving force in this context, is that most developing countries are opposed to a change in rules and a development of rules that can better take care of the environment, labour standards and human rights. Although one has to understand that developing countries fear that a stronger regulatory framework in these areas can be used for protectionist purposes, thereby weakening the competitiveness of the poor countries, it is important that Norway has a long-term strategy, including: key environmental principles, such as ‘pre-war’ and ‘pollutants pay’, can be gradually accepted as fundamental principles for the WTO as well. Negotiations on the so-called intellectual property rights will also include patents. Patenting of biotechnological inventions is also a controversial area in which interests burst. Norway, too, must seek alliances with countries that oppose patents. Another issue is the interruption of negotiations on a multinational investment agreement, the so-called MAI negotiations. I share the Government's view that the experiences of the MAI negotiations in the OECD and the considerable scepticism of a number of developing countries have been expressed should have the consequence that an applicant avoids investment becoming a separate negotiating theme in the forthcoming WTO round of negotiations. The consideration of Norwegian industrial interests and the consideration of promoting the qualitative aspects of trade mean that, in line with the other OECD countries and central developing countries, the Government is in favour of a broad round of negotiations. But the government also specifies: ‘The breadth and extent of Norwegian interests could present difficult challenges and balances’. This applies, inter alia, to: in relation to ensuring the space for action of a national agricultural policy, which may continue to focus, inter alia, on: food preparedness, biodiversity, housing, cultural landscapes and good public and animal health. There is reason to stress that Norway is not alone in stressing the so-called multifunctional nature of agriculture. In the agricultural sector too, it is therefore important for Norway to link close alliances with countries such as Japan, Korea, Switzerland and Iceland, and with the EU, which also emphasise these considerations. In the light of today’s agricultural policy debate, there may be grounds for recalling that the Government’s strategy in this area is a continuation of the Harlem Brundtland government’s line in the Uruguay Round. In a separate explanation of vote, the Government at that time underlined: ‘the importance we attach to the non-commercial or non-economic factors. These are important elements of our agricultural policy and include not only food security but also elements such as the environment, district policy and social considerations. In the wider context, they are of vital importance to us." There must be reason to ask, in the light of recent fresh agricultural policy signals from the Workers' Party, whether the Harlem Brundtland Government would have continued to support its views on current agricultural policy advocates for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e350	Perhaps the most important thing that has happened in the world in the last decades is that some East Asian countries have had tremendous economic, social and other progress, while a number of African countries have not had the same progress. Ghana and South Korea were equally rich in 1960. Today, South Korea is 12 times richer than Ghana measured in gross domestic product per capita. the population. If you're going to learn one lesson from these experiences, it's in my opinion that what works best is that you can get to a strong state in an open economy. In Norway, we should get out of the debate on for or against the WTO, but acknowledge that what we are going to contribute to is that developing countries are able to build a strong state formation, but in an open market economy. In short: it must be possible to see that the right-hand side was essentially right in the case of the market, while the left-hand side was mainly right in the case of the country, in the state/market debate that has been held over the decades. Today, as I said, most people will agree that a strong state in an open economy is what works. Free trade is basically good. Cross-border investment is also a good starting point. Short-term cross-border capital movements for no other purpose than to earn a few dollars from one day to the other are initially harmful, because it destabilises governments and undermines democracy. But although trade has contributed to economic prosperity in most places, there are problems with it, and we must try to deal with them through the WTO. In my opinion, there are four main problems. In summary, a billion people are outside this international free trade regime. Secondly, it is not obvious that the poor in our part of the world serve such free trade, because jobs can be moved to other parts of the world. There are negative environmental impacts because economic growth is so strong that it pollutes nature and puts pressure on nature's tolerance limit, and we have not found democratic institutions that can handle it that money and goods move across borders. What we need now is a debate in Norway on how to further develop the WTO into a tool to deal with some of these problems. The SV's proposals in the debate have such an objective. To start with the environment: it is obvious that it is too cheap to move goods across borders and move goods over large distances, that it places unnecessary pressure on the environment, and that in itself it prevents the degree of local self-storage that is desirable. The easiest way to deal with this problem would be to get international fuel taxes or to raise the price of fuel. We believe that the Government should work for it – not only necessarily in the WTO context, but also in other international contexts. We also have to bring in the precautionary principle. We have to get the idea that the actual process of producing a product is an environmental issue, not just any environmental costs of the final product. This must enter the WTO. Then, although for natural reasons some third world countries are skeptical, one must work for international professional standards and minimum standards in terms of wages and working conditions to also provide workers who are low on the social rank, and unqualified in our part of the world, the protection that such standards will provide. Then we must work to democratize the WTO by two lines. One is that the WTO is probably the most closed of all international institutions. It's very closed for non-governmental organizations. They don't have the place where they have in many other international contexts, and we in Norway should be a driving force to get them in. Secondly, we should help bring the WTO under the United Nations system, or at least a lot closer cooperation with the United Nations to avoid WTO agreements undermining environmental agreements concluded under the United Nations. The democratisation of the WTO, transparency in this institution should be a major concern of the Government. In the long run, this will also help us achieve the other goals we have. Finally, let me address two very specific things that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said, which I would like to stress that we agree with and believe is important. One is that Norway is working actively and strongly for China, Russia and other countries wishing to enter the WTO to enter the WTO. It can't be right that the United States alone should have a veto right and decide who gets in there. Norway should be a press group to get them in. We are also pleased that the Government has clearly stated that Norway supports Thailand's candidate Supachai as Secretary-General of the WTO. Norway should continue to do so. It may seem that the New Zealand counter-candidate is a kind of ideological extremist in this area that should not be supported by Norway. Finally, I would like to address the proposals submitted by SV.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e378	Erik Solheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e381	I would like to begin by referring to the Foreign Minister's statement, which I regard as good and thorough, and to which I would essentially agree. The Left’s national meeting underlined the importance of addressing the challenges of globalisation to a greater extent in an opinion on international issues. There will be questions of the gap between North and South, of ensuring that private business takes greater responsibility for social and environmental conditions in the Third World, of improved international arrangements relating to currency speculation and investment, and of strengthening the ability of national institutions to monitor and regulate their foreign economy. In this context, it is particularly important to help developing countries strengthen their opportunities. In our view, the WTO needs to be seen in such a wider context. The WTO negotiations and the WTO Agreement are part of a larger international system to improve economic and trade systems based on binding agreements, thus making it the best possible orderly market economy. As several speakers have pointed out in the past, GATT and the WTO have been important to Norway because of our open economy and because we have a small economy. Such an economy requires a secure international trading system, and it is also important to have arrangements for dispute settlements, relating to the different perception of the agreements. Several have been the subject of today's debate, and it will be supported by the Left that the WTO should also be more able to take on board the need to ensure progress on social issues and standards and environmental issues. In this context, not least because entering into and ensuring these conditions better, could initially be negative for developing countries, it is important that the contract work creates opportunities for positive discrimination against trade from developing countries to the rich part of the world. I would also like to stress that I agree with Erik Solheim that WTO processes need to become more open, and I perceive, to the extent that the Foreign Minister's statement in relation to Norwegian negotiating arrangements and input is a contribution to such a process. The left considers it particularly important that the WTO system seeks to stimulate more environmentally friendly production of goods and services. We should aim to eliminate all customs duties on environmentally friendly goods and services and to ensure the use of environmentally friendly technologies. In this context, zero duty is also important for goods from the least developed countries. As far as agricultural issues and trade in agricultural products are concerned, I refer you to the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement. One aspect that may not have been mentioned in particular in today's debate, and which I may not make particularly heavy contributions to, is that there is a significant challenge for the WTO in the fact that Russia and China are not linked to the system, while at the same time it would be desirable to work towards linking these countries to the WTO Agreement. But it is certainly right to assume that precisely these two countries, perhaps China in particular, if China is linked to the agreement, will face new challenges from the WTO.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e402	In this article, I will concentrate mainly on the agricultural policy challenges associated with the forthcoming WTO round of negotiations. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, the agricultural sector is an area on which we are obliged to negotiate. The Uruguay Round gave us a separate agricultural agreement. Article 20 of this Agreement sets out a clear objective of achieving significant, gradual reductions in support and protection measures. At the same time, it is clear that so-called non-commercial aspects should also be taken into account. The government indicates that it is largely based on the negotiating strategy of the Harlem Brundtland government in the previous round of negotiations. This implies that Norwegian emphasis will be placed on the multi-faceted tasks of agriculture, the production of collective goods by agriculture — yes, what is now referred to as the ‘multi-functional role of agriculture’. The Labour Party endorses this negotiating strategy. Norwegian agriculture currently plays a crucial role in Norwegian district policy. If agricultural policy were to have only Norwegian food production as a target, we could reduce nutrient transfers to agriculture by significant sums. The same would, of course, apply in relation to the need for protection in the form of high rates of duty. However, there has been a broad political consensus in Norway about using agricultural policy as an active tool to achieve objectives in other policy areas. That is why we have a small scale, district-based and environmentally friendly agriculture in our country. Through this agriculture we maintain housing and good animal health, we produce safe food, and we preserve our cultural landscape. If we are to pursue an agricultural policy that aims to carry out these multi-faceted tasks, we will depend on Norway's continued commitment to a national framework of action in agricultural policy. At the same time, however, we must remember the clear objective of a gradual reduction in the agricultural transfers provided for in Article 20 of the WTO Agreement on Agriculture. The Labour Party fully agrees with the assessment made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he concludes that: «The parties must nevertheless be expected to have to go beyond the existing obligations.» This is in stark contrast to the statements of – let me call him the Federal Ministry of Agriculture’s spokesman – Per Olaf Lundtigen, who has stated to the newspaper Tromsø: ‘Sp categorically rejects the use of the WTO round to cut agricultural transfers. The Central Party of Government cannot accept that the sitting Bondevik government cuts in support of Norwegian farmers. – WTO justification cannot be used to cut transfers to Norwegian agriculture.» The Workers' Party assumes that the underlying understanding of reality lies with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. However, it is strange that in this situation in the agricultural situation for 1999, the Government increases the level of aid to Norwegian agriculture. In this way, the Government is going wrong in relation to the expectations of the foreign minister as a result of the forthcoming WTO round. In the next round, this would mean that Norwegian agriculture would have to undergo rapid and difficult conversion, rather than the gradual conversion that resulted from the previous round. This is the Working Party very critical. In this picture, there is also concern that Norway has both an offensive and a defensive strategy in the forthcoming WTO round in relation to world food trade. In the case of fish and fish products, Norway wants trade barriers to be reduced, but on agricultural products we want to maintain a high level of protection. The Labour Party would stress that, in our opinion, it is important that Norway maintains its desire for improved trade conditions for fish and fish products.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e433	Today's debate on the forthcoming WTO negotiations shows, as far as I can judge, that there is a broad consensus on the government's line. This, of course, is of great importance for further preparations. We are facing major challenges in the forthcoming WTO negotiations. The main challenge will be to address the whole of Norwegian interests. In addition to major industrial interests and commercial interests relating in particular to agriculture, fish and the services sector, Norway’s interests also cover the qualitative aspects of trade, such as health, the environment, consumer considerations and labour standards. The interests of developing countries in the multilateral trading system also play a central role in the formulation of government policies in this area. The representative Hanssen and the representative Frost Sterri were in the government's agricultural policy, and the Workers' Party expressed support for what was said in my presentation. I just want to remind you that the WTO agricultural agreement has a long-term objective of making significant, gradual reductions in support and protection in order to achieve a fundamental reform of agricultural trade. However, no time limit has been set for achieving the objective. Article 20 does not in any way represent a mandate to negotiate full free trade in agricultural products, but – as I also said in my statement – the parties must be expected to go beyond the existing obligations. On the Norwegian side, we place great emphasis on the fact that Article 20 of the Agreement on Agriculture has a specific reference to taking into account, inter alia, in the negotiations. non-commercial aspects. In this context, the argument about the multifunctional role of agriculture is central. related to food safety and environmental considerations. Like Norway, Japan, Korea, Switzerland, Iceland and the EU place great emphasis on the multifunctional role of agriculture, in addition to the role of food producer. On the part of the Government, we will continue our active commitment to reaching agreement on a new agreement that will ensure the continued national space for action in order to achieve the key objectives underlying Norwegian agricultural policy. The representative Nybakk and Frost Sterri also raised the issue of investment. The question of whether an investment agreement in the WTO will be negotiated remains unresolved. Based on the situation as it stands today, it is highly uncertain whether this area will be included in the negotiations. At the OECD Ministerial Council meeting at the end of May, the forthcoming WTO round was a major theme. It turned out that it was not possible to reach an agreement among the OECD countries on the mention of investment in the communication from the meeting, so that the investment section was taken out in its entirety. However, I would like to stress that if there is a consensus to launch negotiations on an international investment code, the Government will of course take an active part in such negotiations. The representative of Solheim, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, has put forward a number of proposals, and I will try to comment quickly on them. With regard to the issue of relations with the UN agencies, there are some formal issues, which I assume the representative Solheim is familiar with. With regard to the issue of working for international fuel taxes, this is an issue, to which the representative Solheim also referred, which probably belongs rather to international specialty organisations, such as the United Kingdom. ICAO. As far as the issue of transparency is concerned, of course, the Government, which also the representative Solheim will be familiar with, is concerned and wants the greatest possible transparency. We have therefore taken initiatives on the Norwegian side to cooperate closely with the social partners. Initiatives have also been taken to involve non-governmental non-governmental non-governmental organisations in the preparatory work ahead of the Seattle Ministerial Conference. So we will actively work for transparency here. Regarding the question of food quality, I can show that this is also a question that we are concerned about from the Norwegian side. We will actively participate in the various international standardisation bodies with a view to setting a higher standard. Finally, on the issue of labour standards, this is also a matter on which Norway has committed itself. It is known that this is a difficult question, among other things. because developing countries are sceptical about it. We have therefore not least focused our attention on developing countries and have taken the initiative of seminars to improve our understanding of the importance of labour standards. We will continue to do so in the WTO, while actively working on this issue within the ILO, which is, of course, the body that has this as its main work area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e461	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e464	Let me first conclude by recording from the Labour Party that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is prepared to launch negotiations on agricultural reform processes as part of the WTO negotiations, and that is what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said in his statement, which is the Government's policy in this area. Then I think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was somewhat debilitating in his mention of employee rights and labour standards. I would like to stress what I said in my main speech, that the concept of free trade is meaningless if it can be based on a breach of professional rights, and would remind you that since 1996, Norway has been working to ensure that the WTO should set up its own working group to discuss the issues of labour standards. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he will follow this up in detail, so that a working group can be set up to continue working on work standards even after the round is over, so that this becomes a permanent task. I would also ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to make it clear that the dialogue that I know the Nordic countries have had with developing countries in order to get them involved in this issue of workers' rights, the ban on child labour, environmental considerations, etc. continues, and that Norway and the other Nordic countries are continuing this initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e473	It is not easy to avoid being obnoxious when you have to comment on so many questions in a few minutes. So a short answer is yes to the representative Nybakk asks. The slightly longer answer is that, as the representative Nybakk is familiar with, it seems difficult today to formally set working standards on the WTO agenda. What we will do in concrete terms is work together with like-minded countries to ensure that labour standards are mentioned in the Declaration of the next Ministerial Conference. We think that is important, because then we can also have a formal basis for further work on this within the WTO. But of course, we will also continue the dialogue that we have had with the social partners. We, as the representative will be familiar with, have supported LO financially in their work on these issues, not least in the developing countries, and we will continue the dialogue with developing countries both multilaterally and bilaterally, so that this is a matter to which we, on the Norwegian side, attach great importance. But we have noticed that it is difficult to get through to the WTO on these issues, and that is why we believe that we are not just going to run the WTO race. Although there is also an important work to be done within the WTO, we must at the same time continue to work within the ILO, because this is the mandate of the ILO Member States, and it is important that the ILO Member States also understand the relationship between trade and labour standards.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e478	I assume that the Government is based on the direction the majority represents. The objective of maintaining a fair and market-oriented trade regime for agricultural products is laid down in Article 20(e) of the 1994 WTO Agreement on Agriculture. The councils were so far within this in their posts today, but the government has made very little clarification of its position in relation to this. The emphasis that the statement places on defending barriers to trade in agricultural products is very worrying because we are now giving signals that free trade is only an objective if it is an advantage for Norway’s exports. I choose to believe that this is not an intentional wish, because the interests of Norway will not be cared for. It is true that the Government feels committed to and will work constructively, as it says in the agreement, to the objective of establishing a fair and market-oriented trade regime for agricultural products.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e485	It is true that for a country such as Norway, with a relatively small and very open economy, binding legislation on international trade is of great importance, and this of course applies to all areas. It ensures that Norwegian products are not discriminated against in foreign markets and also provides security against the entitlement of the strongest. As far as agriculture is concerned, I think I should be allowed to repeat some of what I have already said, namely that the WTO agricultural agreement has a long-term objective of making significant gradual reductions in support and protection in order to achieve a fundamental reform of agricultural trade. However, no time limit has been set for achieving this objective, so Article 20 does not in any way represent a mandate to negotiate full free trade in agricultural products. The parties must, as I have also said, be expected to go beyond what they have done in the past in terms of their obligations. Work on the mandate for the negotiations will now continue. I believe that in September/October we will be able to see more clearly the negotiating situation, and the Government will of course come back to the Stortinget with these questions and the final design of the mandate when we have come so far as to clarify it prior to the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e492	I opened my speech by saying that the statement to the Minister for Foreign Affairs was unclear, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs continues to be unclear today in his answers. I understand the reason for this, namely the internal conflict in the Government, but it is not satisfactory for the Right today that we should get such a vague response from the Government on what we are going to negotiate with. We are fully aware of the fact that, in the case of investments, it is unclear whether this will be covered by the mandate for the negotiations. But what we are asking for is that the Government is actively involved in this being covered by the mandate, and I am not satisfied with the answer given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. With regard to the second issue I raised, namely the EU's proposals relating to the poorest developing countries, it was not commented on by the Minister for Foreign Affairs either, and I am very aware that there is also an internal dispute in the Government here. I just point out that in its chronicle in the nations on 11 March, Åslaug Haga concludes that there will be little room for further liberalisation linked to the new agricultural rounds, while Development Minister Frafjord Johnson expressed, not later than in spontaneous Question Time on 19 May, that liberalised world trade is important for the developing countries, and that is the same issue. What we are asking for is how the Norwegian Government and Norway will deal with this proposal on the part of the European Union as a response to the mandate for the WTO negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e499	At first I must say that I am fascinated by the representative Frost Sterris' knowledge of the inner conditions of the Government. But let's leave it right now. As far as investments are concerned, it is true, as I said, that we did not see any driving role on the Norwegian side. The reason I tried to say a little about my post today. This is, as I said, still undecided. These include: resistance from key developing countries such as India and Egypt to negotiating an investment regulatory framework at present, and the United States has also expressed restraint in negotiating investment rules in the WTO. The ongoing discussions in the WTO show that the issue of multilateral investment rules is hardly mature for negotiation now. I also said that to the extent that there is consensus on this, of course we should support and actively participate in such negotiations, but Norway does not see, in the light of the great contradictions that are, that we are going to have a driving role there today. In terms of agriculture and relations with developing countries, there is a dilemma for us and where there are difficult balances. This applies not least to the desire to safeguard our defence interests in the agricultural sector in relation to the wishes of developing countries and to the requirement of increased market access for agricultural products. This is a question that we're going to want to have a conscious relationship with in the preparations. But, as I said, we're still working on preparing. What has been important to me with the presentation is to get support for the broad basis of negotiation that we want, that we want to look at the whole of the Norwegian economy. I feel that this debate has given me support to continue with it. Therefore, the Government will also look at the different elements of this whole and come back to the Storing with these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e510	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e513	A number of companies are transnational and cannot or will not be subject to the governance of the national State. Therefore, international organisations are needed to draw up precisely the same direction and driving rules. Let me therefore stress that economic development and increased trade mainly contribute to improving the possibilities for strengthening human rights and democracy. The objectives of the 1947 GATT Agreement, for which Norway was one of the initiators, include: the objective of trade must be a higher standard of living, full employment and full use of world resources. These objectives have not been achieved, but it was positive that the Bondevik government included in the Adult Declaration that the WTO Agreement needs to be improved in order to promote objectives such as professional rights, the environment and to meet the needs of developing countries. But this must be actively followed up. We all have to take seriously the fact that we are facing a number of human, moral and practical challenges in the internationalisation process that we have to deal with. Faced with ethical and human rights issues in the perspective of globalisation, two key strategies will have an impact: development of a common binding international law, in particular in the context of the development of quality requirements and ethical standards within each actor, whether private or State enterprise, authorities, social partners and non-governmental organisations; It is also crucial that in the negotiations, Norway has as its starting point that we do not work for trade agreements that favour countries that gain advantage in breaching professional rights, exploiting resources and the environment, or poor working environment conditions. With regard to professional rights, Norway played an active role during the previous ministerial meetings, and it is important that this policy does not stand still on the ground. A number of countries have the same vision as us, and a number of major powers, among others. The United States has signaled that they will put the theme on the agenda in Seattle. However, it will be essential that we put in place a strategy that will allow dialogue with developing countries. In this context, I felt that the foreign minister in the first place was anxious to have contact with like-minded people. I believe that the dialogue with the developing countries must be focused on. I also think it is too defensive, as the State Secretary's Committee suggests, that workers' rights should only be mentioned in a statement. I expect the Government to work actively in parallel with the negotiations to start working on these questions, and ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on this point, which Marit Nybakk also called for. A majority here in the Chamber wants the Government also to go ahead with a global investment agreement. It is important that the Government has an attitude to it, and not just support it if someone else takes it up. I also stress here that developing countries must then take an active part, and that their objections are also given importance, while at the same time giving each country the freedom to determine the volume of foreign purchases and also setting out the conditions for the exploitation of its own resources. Our approach to the issues to be discussed in the WTO for the autumn must be broad, comprehensive, comprehensive and multi-national in the sense that negotiations must also be open. We also need to know what is happening in the Government when discussing these issues. I have to say that I am surprised when, in connection with the mandate, the government is not involved with the ambassador who has worked for so many years with the questions. I feel that there must be a problem also for the Government, because the person who has worked so systematically throughout the preparation and establishment of the WTO is now skeptical about the mandate and the restriction made by the Government. More than anything, a small country such as Norway needs to have a broad approach and not be experienced to take care of itself, and at the same time we need to have the full opportunity to sell our products anywhere. It is a bad feeling to sit with, and I think that when he has gone so far and published his view, it is not least for the interests of the country. Even he hardly has anything to earn from it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e535	It is within the built-in agenda for WTO negotiations, in particular in the field of agriculture, that Norway will meet the main challenges. In this area, it must be said that Norway has almost taken an extremely defensive position, not least in order to base the opinions of some central party politicians on the government apparatus. But on the basis of the Minister of Foreign Affairs' previous statements in that debate, I have understood that you should not. The 1994 agricultural agreement provides guidelines for the negotiations ahead of the WTO. Article 20 of the Agreement on Agriculture refers to the long-term objective of making significant but gradual reductions in support and protection measures and to taking into account non-commercial aspects in that process. The government has clearly indicated that their starting point for negotiation will be to pay particular attention to these non-commercial aspects, such as the environment and food safety, often referred to as the multifunctional role of agriculture. However, the Government fails to refer to another point in Article 20, which states that it is ‘an objective to establish a fair and market-oriented trading regime for agricultural products’. I guess the government feels equally obliged to the whole of Article 20, even though not all of the points are mentioned in the statement. There is reason to recall that we are in favour of liberalising trade in agricultural products, not least because more open markets in this area are in the interests of developing countries. The State Secretary Committee has pointed out that customs level, yellow and blue support is expected to be affected by a new WTO agreement and that the share of total transfers to agriculture is expected to be under pressure from customs protection and protection aid. Green aid or production neutral aid is unlikely to be subject to the same reduction obligations. NILF has carried out calculations showing that Norway may be at risk of breaching the obligations already imposed by the existing WTO Agreement. The Norwegian direct reduction aid has increased in the last half of the 1990s. NILF concludes that if the direct Norwegian aid continues to increase at the same rate as it has now, we will be able to cross the permitted level of aid already in 1999. As far as NILF is aware, Norway is the only Member State that has experienced an increase in internal support during the implementation period. The question will therefore be how we can manage to meet any future obligations without more fundamental changes in Norwegian agricultural policy. The position we are going to deal with later today on the agricultural agreement gives prospects that the necessary adjustments may be possible. The right considers that a conversion is necessary which involves less production-specific aid and reduced price and protection aid. In return, the Right wishes to increase the green or neutral production aid. The government does not mention in the statement the consideration of the food industry. However, there is a mutual dependence between primary agricultural production and the food industry. The framework conditions under which agriculture operates are essential for industry. And most important for the food industry is the supply of raw materials that are not to be found in price dramatically above the industry of the other country. We therefore assume that the Government also takes into account the competitiveness of the food industry in the forthcoming negotiations and that account will be taken of developments that have also taken into account the framework conditions of this industry as regards raw materials prices.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e555	This debate has, to a large extent, been marked by a great deal of support for the presentation by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that is all possible reason. I think that the debate is a little bit influenced by the fact that we all see that this kind of international negotiations gives us the opportunity to correct things that are shaky and crooked, and that we want to do something about and change. For us in the Workers' Party, our work with these kinds of organisations has intended to move some markers or at least take some steps towards a somewhat higher degree of human rights, better international demands for environmental standards and not least in the process we're in now, which I think may have come up a little bit so far, the development of better standards for workers' rights, social standards. If we are not gradually able to shift attitudes up to higher standards in the poorest countries too, we are at risk of contributing to the development of areas where low wages are a competitive advantage. It is not the workers in the countries with which they serve. There is also no solid international society in the long term. That is why this has been important for us, both in preparation for WTO negotiations and also when we are working on similar issues in relation to the Monetary Fund, the World Bank, etc. So when the government follows up the job that we did in the government, and LO's efforts in this area, which in total becomes the professional political cooperation that the government really says they're going to continue, we're very happy about it. This type of industrial policy agreement is necessary, for in many ways Norway's history is similar to that of some of the countries we now refer to as quite poor, commodity-based and export-dependent countries. The reason why we've managed to achieve a welfare development in Norway at all is that we've managed to sell the products where we have advantage, where we have good access to raw materials. This is why it is important for countries like ours to ensure that, for example, in the future. salmon exports cannot be met by dumping measures from the United States. It must be the most important thing – the offensive strategy. So it's been said a lot about how we're going to deal with the agricultural part of the negotiations. If we remember the Uruguay Round, there was a lot of drama around it. There was particularly great drama among some activists like, among other things. They arranged an action to fire around the country in fear that the country would now be occupied by hostile interests, if not physically so in practice. Yes, so seriously was the previous WTO round considered to be. It is then important to make it quite clear that it is what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said in his statement, which should be the line in this area in the negotiations as well. The Minister of Foreign Affairs himself said that he realized that there was a broad consensus on the government's line and broad support for the government's arrangement, and that is my impression too. In particular in Stortingen, there is broad support for the Government's arrangements. I hope that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has the same support in the Government that he has in Stortinget, because it is not just – as has been pointed out in the past – the Ministry of Agriculture's agricultural policy spokesperson, Lundtigen, who has been out thinking about this issue. The Vice-Chairman of the Centre Party, Groenlien Østmoe, also says that what has been presented in the nomination of the State Secretary-General is not acceptable. If that is the result, we are not credible, the Vice-President of the Centre Party, Grönlien Østmoe, has said. I really hope that is the official line that we have been presented by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which will be the starting point for real negotiations, which will also safeguard our ability to pursue an active agricultural policy, and not the dogmatic line that Greenland East Moe represents, which has too many common features with the well-known Ludvig of Flåklypa, who every time there is something new, says: Is it a failure, then?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e574	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e577	Just a deepening of a few of the themes that I brought up in my main post earlier today. The attention to the poorest countries is important in the forthcoming round. I would also like to refer to the action plan presented by the Council of State Hilde Frafjord Johnson last winter, which is being discussed in the Foreign Affairs Committee as part of the statement of assistance. There she strongly advocates further tolerations for the MUL countries. The gap in wealth between countries and many developing countries, as many have said, is increasing, particularly in Africa and not least in southern Africa. I have noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement that the attention given to the needs of these countries in the trading system will be an important clue to the choice of Norwegian positions. I want to underline as much as I can, that it also becomes like this. I would also like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to clarify whether he supports the initiative that has come from the EU that the least developed countries, in fact, in this round, receive full exemption from customs duties for all their products. It is difficult to talk about political driving rules in the international community without talking about investment. Then you could say that investment and trade are in many ways interrelated, and that there are also rules for investments related to the trading system. Nevertheless, it is important to relaunch the process of working towards a multilateral regulatory framework for investment. I would also ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to take the necessary initiative to get that process going again. It's important after the MAI has failed, that the process starts again. Then, like Dag Terje Andersen, I would also like to stress that there is a broad consensus here in the Grand Duchy on what is the Government's line in relation to the place of agriculture in the WTO negotiations, and that an agricultural reform process is being set up as part of the negotiations. Finally, I would like to comment briefly on the proposals put on the table by Erik Solheim on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. In this round, I will be very careful to ask Erik Solheim to convert the proposals. 1, 2, 3 and 4 to the transmission proposal, and that they are sent to the government without a motion of reality. I would refer to what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his introduction, and I believe that we are in a position to submit these proposals without any actual vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e592	In the context of the new WTO negotiations, it is important to clarify that the Progress Party will support the liberalisation of the SAP. The time has now come to go a little further, and especially in agriculture, there is a reduction in protection measures and aid schemes. It is incredibly important for a country like Norway, with a relatively small and open economy. The Progress Party will recall that Norwegian farmers are still over-protected in most categories of agriculture. The Progress Party is in favour of a faster and more targeted adaptation of Norwegian agriculture to an international competitive situation, thus seeking a faster and stronger reduction of customs protection for agricultural products than the agreement currently obliges Norway. The party to the progress is of the opinion that real competitive exposure is the most effective measure to force the necessary structuralisation and an increase in the profitability of Norwegian agriculture. Finally, from all parties, there has been a desire for free trade. At the same time, the same parties want legislation and restrictions. How much free trade will there be then? The Party considers that free trade should be free movement of goods, services and persons, without too many obstacles.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e601	With a positive approach to the State Council's presentation and speeches today on Norwegian positions to the WTO, I have no problem joining much of what he said, especially when you notice that the Council's posts were held in a diplomatic tone that makes it possible to also have more interpretations of most of the positions here. Let me start with the most positive interpretation, where I see the Council of State very clearly, namely that the MAI agreement is not to be part of the WTO agreement, and that Norway – in the right wording here – clearly states that we do not want the agreement on investment to be part of the WTO negotiations. I also understood the Council of State that if we get into a position where the MAI agreement becomes part of the WTO negotiations, and later perhaps also part of the legislation, the Storting will be kept informed on an ongoing basis. This was a major issue last year, where many countries, not only developing countries, as the Council of State said, but also many industrialized countries, not least France, actively contributed to the collapse of OECD negotiations, precisely because investment was a very problematic issue. Nor do I have any problems saying that free trade is essentially positive. Free trade contributes to economic growth and cultural growth, but free trade also has many negative aspects. One of the main challenges facing us at the dawn of the new millennium is that environmental problems are not praised for international transport and thus contribute to an increased degree of globalisation and liberalisation. The councils are a little fuzzy at that point. I could have thought that he might be a little clearer. I see that the State Council of the European Union states that the scope of international transport needs to be monitored. What must be the point is that international transport is priced. It will contribute to a cost-effective way of protecting local business, which will be a positive effect not least for developing countries, and at the same time will have the positive environmental impact of reducing CO2 emissions. So Kyoto negotiations did not target international transport rules, mainly because it did not know how to allocate emission allowances when choosing the allowances system. What must be the challenge for Norway is that the WTO negotiations also introduce environmental issues such as the issue of international fuel taxes. Therefore, SV has today submitted a proposal to put the search light on it. Let me also take hold of the part where the Council of State was in, and that goes in transparency. The WTO negotiations were marked in the previous round, and will probably in this round be marked by an extreme degree of closure. This will mean that parliaments, as well as ordinary citizens, and not least the big NGOs, as they are called internationally, the organised grassroots movements, do not have an understanding of how the negotiations are going. I ask the Council of State to be very clear on that point, and that he contribute as much as he can, and that the Norwegian position be as transparent both to the Norwegian population and to the many organisations that will depend on the negotiated results that will eventually emerge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e618	The World Trade Organisation is no longer an organisation to deal only with direct trade but also with matters affected by international trade, such as: workers' rights, environmental, health and district policies. I think that one should work to put work standards on the WTO agenda, although I see that this can be difficult in this round of negotiations. However, it is important to keep up the pressure in this area, not least from the Norwegian side, and I believe that one here must work to build an understanding in developing countries in order for this to be an important area to be dealt with by the trading system. One area that, at my discretion, will be of particular importance for Norway in the forthcoming negotiations is the special needs of Norway in relation to agricultural policy. We need the space for action that the Government adds that we're going to get, and many other countries need the same thing. Let me also underline: we have a lot of support opportunities that the WTO is accepting today. Trade in food is fundamentally different from trade in services. Global food buyers must be slowed down. The dioxin scandal in Belgium illustrates this. There is no country that can fully secure itself against such scandals that Belgium is now experiencing, but when larger and larger food flows freely across borders, limiting the damage will be much more difficult. I am sure that Norwegian food customers want politicians to be active, take initiatives, have the braking and control options that are now being put up for in our negotiations. And showing that will, I think, is positive. Those who say here that we shouldn't show such a will, I think, I hope, lose it. There is a broad consensus in the Business Committee, with the exception of the Right and the Advance Party, to support the strategy for the negotiations it has set up, and I am pleased that the Labour Party is so actively supporting this strategy. At the same time, I am somewhat concerned about what appears in the debate here, which is somewhat similar to the belief in fate that we heard about before the European Union battle. I believe that the Workers' Party's spokesmen are taking the troubles ahead. We may not be forced to reduce customs tariffs as much as you think. When it is said that a reduction should have been introduced in the agricultural agreement of the year, I do not think it is necessary. As regards the relationship between Norwegian agriculture and the food industry, I fully agree with what has been pointed out – they are dependent on each other. However, if Norwegian food production is to be significantly reduced, it is not least the food industry that loses out on it. If there is less food production in Norway, our food is also less processed, less than today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e637	In the Foreign Minister's statement to the Stortinget on 25 May, fish are mentioned on two lines. I hope that this is not a sign that fish do not have a high priority from the Norwegian side in the forthcoming negotiations. Last year we exported fish for $27.9 billion. It's our second largest export industry, and it's a renewable resource. There is reason to expect that the fishing industry will become more and more important to Norway. The world market is asking for seafood, and we have the natural resources to increase production. We're going to be dependent on the fact that the trade barriers don't stop us from taking out this potential. Today, Norwegian fish are faced with major barriers in several markets. In the US market, whole fresh salmon have been excluded for a number of years because of complaints about anti-dumping and punitive duties. The EU market, which receives more than 60 pst. in the case of Norwegian salmon, have raised an anti-dumping complaint against Norway three times and have imposed high rates of duty and production limits on the Norwegian farming industry, which is a threat to the development of the industry. It is worth noting that non-tariff technical barriers to trade are increasingly replacing tariffs and are often due to quality or health conditions. This will limit the WTO Agreement. It is positive and will serve both consumer interests and Norwegian interests. In the distribution, it is stated that the Government will give priority to industrial products its status in the forthcoming negotiations. In the past, the Minister for Fisheries has defined fish as an industrial product, and that is what I have said. It is important that the Government is aware of the importance of the Norwegian fishing industry and that the export of fish can help to replace the loss of revenue as the oil and gas adventure ends. We cannot afford to take light on the fisheries sector when negotiating bilateral or international agreements, nor in the forthcoming WTO negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e654	The Council of State explained Norway’s negotiating strategy, or the strategy that the Government wants to be Norway’s negotiating strategy for agricultural products, and is based on the fact that Article 20 has no deadline. So a person is happy and satisfied as long as nothing is done in the area. The fact that Article 20 does not set a time limit for the establishment of fair and market-oriented trade in agricultural products does not mean that the Government cannot work constructively in this respect. The same applies to reductions in other aid schemes and protective measures. As is well known, Norway has little to do with the training and combating of free international trade, not least in terms of fish and fish products. It is therefore important for the Government to follow up the Grand Government’s wish that the Government work in a targeted and constructive manner also in the context of free trade in agricultural products.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e663	To the representative of Kukkestad, I just want to say that we do not take Article 20 or any other part of what is the starting point for our negotiations. Now, the Minister of Agriculture wants to get closer to what is involved in agriculture, but I also said that Article 20 shows that we have to go beyond what is today's status, and that is the Government's position. As for the issue of working standards, which many people have been involved in, as the representative Dag Terje Andersen also expressed it, there is no disagreement between the Government and the Workers' Party, and I am glad that he underlines it so strongly. The representative Grete Knudsen and I have discussed this issue earlier in Stortingen, and we do not disagree, I think. The representative Knudsen is well the one in this room who knows best about the difficulties of getting work standards in place in the WTO, not least from attending the Singapore ministerial meeting. We have – not least in close cooperation with the Landsorganisation, but also in cooperation with developing countries, which has been one of the most important priorities we have set for this – worked to get work standards on the agenda, and we will continue to do so. But although there is a broad support for this in Stortinget, there is not as broad support within the WTO, and that is why we run two races, as I said earlier. On the issue of investment, I am aware that there is a majority in the UK that wants this to be part of the WTO negotiations, but it is not enough with a majority in the Norwegian Grand Prix, it also has to be a majority in the WTO, and it is not. It is so different that I am not sure if it is the interests of Norway that we are going to spend the most time on. But of course we will take this into account in the preparatory work for the mandate and come back, as I said, to the Stortinget with this and explain to the Stortinge the various aspects of the negotiating situation as it approaches the ministerial meeting. The representative Tveiten was in the area of fish, and I can assure the representative that fish are a high priority. We have underlined the importance that market access negotiations should not only cover customs but also include non-tariff issues, for example. trade barriers that go beyond customs duties and charges, so that this will be followed up. The environment is also, as I said in my statement, an important issue for the Government, and I have explained in my statement, as the entire Government stands behind, for that aspect as well. With regard to the EU's proposals on tariff reduction – only quickly at the end – we look at it. We've got this transmitted, and we're going to come back to how we're going to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e680	I would first of all like to refer to the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement and statements, which, of course, give an overall picture of what is the Government's position and strategy in relation to the WTO negotiations. I want to repeat, from my point of view as Minister of Agriculture, what was said: ‘The Government will actively promote the conclusion of the next round of negotiations in an agricultural agreement, which will continue to provide national scope for action in the formulation of agricultural policy, with the means deemed necessary to achieve the objectives of continued active agricultural production.’ This has been agreed here in the hall today, not least the article from Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, I think I gave a clear connection to this. In a debate we will have later today on agricultural policy, the assessment made by the Government in relation to agriculture and the WTO negotiations will also be explained in a broad sense. There is also a clear majority in the Economic and Social Committee that agrees to this in the position of a case later on. I would also like to stress that last round Harlem Brundtland, the government, in fact, found it necessary to take a explanation of vote precisely from the challenges we faced in agriculture and in agricultural policy, and that, of course, they did so on the basis of the fact that the government also found it necessary. In retrospect, in the debate that followed here in the Grand Chamber, this explanation of vote received broad political support. In the case of multifunctional agriculture — or to say it in good Norwegian; the multi-faceted tasks of agriculture — there is also a clear agreement in the House today that this is the strategy we are going to follow in the future. Norway has already been active in international bodies to provide this concept with content, so that we can have an anchor anchorage when we are going to enter into real negotiations, and so that it is properly emphasised. It's a dimension I'd like to add, which hasn't been present today, and which can turn out to be a theme that's far more important than what we might know. It's this with food security and food security. Based on what is happening in Europe in general, and what problems may arise if we do not have this under control, it may be that this will be a dimension also in relation to the multi-faceted task of agriculture, which will gain a much stronger emphasis and will actually have an impact in the final negotiations that will take place in a few years' time. I therefore hope that, through cooperation with the Stortinget – and I think that the debate here today shows – we will be able to have an approach to these negotiations that will ensure the space for action we need, if we want to have an agriculture throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e700	It is true, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, that the Workers' Party is satisfied with the statement that gave weight to the rights of workers and their professional rights. But it also means that there has to be a change of pace, from a defensive attitude and over to an asset, in the positions you occupy in the further work, and not just that one initially says that one is satisfied if there is anything about professional rights in a resolution. It is in such a way that the balance must be found by the Government, after it has been expressed today by both the SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre, that the pressure on workers' rights must always be maintained at the initiative of the Norwegian authorities. The second question I asked was not answered. What is the difference between the extended arm of the Norwegian authorities in Geneva with respect to the WTO and the authorities themselves? Since this has been widely covered by media coverage, it would be natural for the Council of State to report on it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e708	What I said when it came to labour standards was that I think it is important that we get work standards into the declaration of the Ministerial Meeting, because it will provide a further basis for work on labour standards. But the representative Knudsen knows that, as long as this government is in place, we have worked on the issue of labour standards, both in the WTO and also in connection with the ILO, to see how to bridge the gap between the work done in the ILO and the work we are doing in the WTO. We are not satisfied with a resolution, but we believe it is important that a Ministerial Declaration refers to that work, because it provides a formal basis. With regard to the newspaper writings of former ambassadors, I do not find it natural to use the Spokesman's chair to comment on them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e717	The President was so strict on me, but I'm going to contribute to the Storting saving time later today, so I assume it's going up. The proposals we have made have received such a positive response from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that I would ask them to be converted into transmission proposals. I am not even present at the evening meeting, so I think it is right to do so now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e724	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4142]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e738	I'll promise to be short. I believe that the agreement that we are now agreeing to ratify is an agreement of such importance that it deserves a few words, even if it is calm, and it is also a unanimous position we are promoting for Stortinget. This is a free trade agreement between the EFTA countries on the one hand and the PLO on the other hand on behalf of the Palestinian authorities. Norway has played a crucial role in the Middle East peace process. We are following up the process of assistance, both bilaterally and via various private and multilateral organisations. A stable economic development in the Palestinian territories, which is a necessary part of the peace process, requires investment, trade, well-developed agriculture and well-functioning public and private institutions. These are areas that need employment, jobs and technological development and competence. The Free Trade Agreement with EFTA, together with a similar agreement with the EU, represents a step forward in order to ensure market access in Europe for Palestinian goods. There has been a key point in ensuring parallelity with the EU-PLO trade agreement, so that the EU and EFTA are given a similar trade regime in relation to the Palestinian territories. In this way, the agreement also forms part of the southern dimension of the EU, such as: shall ensure stability, growth and democracy around the Mediterranean Sea. Here we have a trade regime that will eventually also be able to include the Balkans and some post-Soviet states – one of several regional cooperation structures in international trade, which we touched on earlier today during the debate on the forthcoming WTO negotiations. With this, I recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e755	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4142]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e769	: No one has asked for the word. [[Fotation, see page 4142]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e783	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 15 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Center Party 10 minutes each, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e794	Through the nomination, a broad majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party, invites the United Kingdom to approve an agreement on certain cooperation aspects in the fisheries sector – the Smutthull Agreement – between Russia, Iceland and Norway and its Protocols between Iceland and Norway. The background to the agreement is the fact that for a number of years there was a significant cod fishery in the Smutthole, mainly operated by Icelandic fishermen. Substantial quantities of cod were taken — in the three years 1993-95 around 140 000 tonnes, and 75 pst. were fished by Icelandic vessels. From the Norwegian side, this was perceived as harmful fishing in relation to the cod stock in the Barents Sea, a strain that is very important to Norway. The strong Norwegian reactions were partly linked to the quantity of cod that was caught, and partly to the fact that there were young and thus small fish that were taken. The attack on the stock was therefore more significant than the quantity alone. Icelandic fishing in the Smutthult also contributed to weakening Norwegian-Icelandic cooperation relations, which in other contexts has also been disrupted by differing positions on fisheries issues. Iceland has been negotiating for a long time to reach such an agreement. Negotiations started as early as 1993. There are a number of positive elements in the system that has now been established. Firstly, it is of its own value that an agreement has been reached with Iceland, thereby ending the Icelandic fishing activities in the Smutthole and also actively assisting Iceland to prevent other fish from fishing in the Smutthole. Secondly, Iceland has been accepted with regard to the Norwegian-Russian administration regime in the Barents Sea, and the present agreement is a dynamic agreement allowing further development of the link between Iceland and Norway in the fisheries policy area. With this agreement, mutual agreements have been reached with all major fishing nations active in the North Atlantic. All with a certain minimum understanding of fishing conditions believe that there was a significant gap in the mutual fisheries agreement system when Iceland was just missing the agreement. At the same time, the negotiated agreement has been met with reactions from a number of teams, including: has advised the Norwegian Fisheries Act not to approve the agreement. In the case of part of the objections, there may be grounds for highlighting a more general relationship when concluding agreements and assessing agreements, namely that an agreement must be viewed in the context of the assumptions that exist on the part of both, or all, parties to the agreement. These will be assumptions of a legal, fisheries and general policy nature. I believe that some of the objections that have been raised to the agreement have not taken on board a number of the factors that will result from these more general starting points. It is important to remember that no one has legal authority in the Smutthole and thus can prevent anyone from fishing there, unless the countries themselves refuse their citizens, or their vessels, to fish. And there's just such a refusal in relation to their own citizens and their own ships that Iceland has gone into here. It is an advantage from an administrative point of view that the quota granted to Iceland must be taken into account in the Norwegian economic zone. Furthermore, when more rights have been granted to Icelandic vessels in Norwegian zones than to Norwegian vessels in Icelandic zones, it also has a link with rearward conditions. It is in particular, as far as I can see, the first time that a positive statement has been made so far in relation to the processing of fish on board, as is now done by the Committee on this matter. In the case of quota exchanges, there have been particular criticisms. It is therefore important to stress that this is not a direct agreement on fish quota exchanges. It is no wonder that the agreement here has been criticised by the Fiskerlag, when they take into account such an unreasonable assessment as they have formulated. It is important to ensure that Iceland, after all, refrains from fishing for cod in an area where they have taken significant catches. There is a common majority who believe that this exchange relationship should nevertheless be better, and who asks the Government to work for it in the context of renegotiations. The same applies to other conditions that are perceived to be slightly unbalanced. Finally, we already see examples of the dynamics that I have underlined in the agreement. Iceland has accepted changes in its fishing gear with regard to shrimp fishing in the Smutthole, and we have received an exchange of letters with Iceland, which means that Iceland has accepted the processing of Norwegian fish on board Norwegian vessels in the Icelandic zone after the conclusion of the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e831	This agreement deals with foreign policy, industrial policy and resource management. Where several interests are to be reconciled in a contract, different views on the contract will arise. That's the same thing with this one. The main objections, I believe, are not primarily raised against the agreement that exists between Russia, Iceland and Norway, but more against the protocol on quota allocation and certain other provisions in the relationship between Iceland and Norway. Over the period 1993-1998, Iceland has fished an estimated 103 000 tonnes of cod in the Smutthole – a fish that both the Russian and Norwegian fisheries authorities and fishing industries have seen as very poor luck. This fishing was considered to be highly unreasonable resource management, which had to be completed. There is no legal basis to stop this fishing, and what is then available is to conclude mutual agreements in order to achieve the desired results. This is such an agreement. As I said, Iceland has fished on average for approx. 17 000 tonnes per year. years in the dirt hole. Iceland has been allocated a total quota of 8900 tonnes of cod, of which half – 4450 tonnes – has been allocated to the Norwegian zone, namely in the Norwegian economic zone, north of the 62th parallel. In this way, we must be able to establish that this is an agreement we must be satisfied with from a resource management point of view. Now it is claimed that fishing in the Mutthole is no longer interesting because there are no fish there, so that fishing there would stop by itself – completely independent of such an agreement. This immediately seems to be a very good point, but if we're going to believe our research environments – and we should – this can be of a very temporary nature. I understand that one of the reasons there's no fish in the dirt hole now are certain temperature fronts in the ocean, but this can change very quickly. And so, without such an agreement as the one we are now entering into, we would be in the same situation as we were in in 1993. Large classes of year with semi-adult cod are recorded in tons, which will, of course, weaken the Norwegian-Arctic cod stock over time. Under this agreement, this has been significantly improved by the fact that Iceland will no longer fish in the Smutthole. Another argument put forward against the agreement is that it will not be able to stop other vessels from fishing there, for example vessels flying flags of convenience. This is right. However, with this agreement, Norway now has agreements with all the major fishing nations in the North Atlantic, and we cannot ignore the fact that Iceland alone was responsible for approx. 75 pst. of all catches in the Smutthole. So in any case, this agreement will lead to a major improvement. It is also claimed that others can now think of stepping up their fishing, hoping and expecting to be able to force a similar agreement as the one we are now dealing with. To this end, the Government has replied to the Committee that it is not considered appropriate to conclude new agreements of this kind. Although it is not directly mentioned in the agreement, we should not underestimate the importance it has as a solution to the Norwegian management regime in the Svalbard fishing zone, in the sense that it represents a solution to the main stocks in that zone. We can also record that the Icelandic Minister for Foreign Affairs on 15 March this year gave the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs oral assurance that Iceland would not use this agreement politically to take up Svalbard's status at the Hague Court. This is an insurance we can trust since Iceland still practises the old arrangement that when a government council or a minister pronounces itself, he does so on behalf of the government. In our opinion, this agreement seeks to deal with the following issues: prevent future Icelandic fishing in the Smutthole, thus strengthening the Norwegian-Arctic cod stock over time ending a difficult and small-fruitful conflict with a close neighbouring country join the team in a joint effort to prevent the unregulated fishing strength of the total dialogue and cooperation in the area of responsible and long-term management of the marine resources; In addition to this, work on the agreement as far as I understand has also led to a clarification regarding Iceland's acceptance of the Norwegian authority in the fishing protection zone around Svalbard. If this is fully correct, and I have understood this correctly, this is perhaps as important as the conditions directly indicated in the agreement. As a consequence of this agreement between Russia, Iceland and Norway, a Protocol has been negotiated between Iceland and Norway concerning quota allocation and certain catch provisions. The Norwegian fishing industry will not travel over this protocol. Now we all know that such negotiations can be complicated, and that there are conditions and factors behind such a protocol that do not appear in the text. But even when correcting for this, it must be said that the imbalance in this protocol is very clearly visible. The distribution of allowances is part of this, and it seems very good that it is not as balanced as one could reasonably expect and wish. Another part is the regulation applied to Norwegian vessels to take out the allocated quota in the Icelandic zone. The withdrawal of the solder quota contained in the protocol has not been understood by me to represent a major and persistent problem, while bottom fishing, the line fishing on brittle, long and blue-ling that is to be carried out in the Icelandic zone and that is part of the quota for Norwegian fishermen, is referred to by the industry itself as the closest ‘paper fish’, i.e. fish that are only in the protocol, but that will never be fished. It's a long way to go for these vessels, from Norway to Iceland, to pick up this catch. At the same time, these vessels cannot carry out any other fishing activities on the voyage. So they're totally dependent on having an approximate flap when they're going to take out this quota. When you are initially prevented from processing and freezing the catch on board, it goes without saying that the risk of such a trip is too great for someone to get involved with it. The rapporteur now suggested that the Workers' Party had turned around in a general debate on the possibility of processing fish on board. You can't interpret this that way. We are facing a relatively special situation here, where we will say without a doubt that this possibility should have been present. Yesterday it was known that in the last Monday meeting between the Minister for Fisheries and his Icelandic colleague, it was agreed that Norwegian lineboats such as catches in the Icelandic zone under this protocol may freeze the seagull and head-covered fish. This will improve the situation in relation to what the agreement looked like when it was sent to Stortinget. There is reason to give the Minister for Fisheries a boost to the rapid work that has been done since the responses to the proposal presented. In our opinion, therefore, the protocol between Iceland and Norway provides a basis for dissatisfaction in the industry, and not so much the agreement itself. We hope that when this protocol is revised, the industry's view and the industry's experience with the protocol will be given considerable importance when adjustments are to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e889	When you hear dialect, at least you realize that the scepticism of making fish on board a fishing vessel is not so great, because it's actually what my district in More and Romesdal lives on. As regards this case, the Progress Party has carefully assessed the draft agreement. And we've asked ourselves the question: is this a purely foreign policy document, so that the government feels that the relationship with Iceland and Icelandic fishermen is served by such an agreement, or is it here a business policy justification because one wants such an agreement to get into port? In the course of the process, the Progress Party felt a great need to clarify what was the main reason for this agreement. The Progress Party therefore chose to hold a consultation for the Group of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, where both the departments involved and the fisheries organisations were present. There were representatives from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs present, and also State Secretary Nakken from the Ministry of Fisheries, and on the other hand the Fiskarlag and the Shipowners Association were represented. This meeting became very elucidating for the Progress Party, and in particular because it quickly became apparent that an overall fishing industry was opposed to the proposed agreement. It is not always we have a fishing industry, regardless of its belongings and vessels, that stands together to go against an agreement. This proposal later to be a very poor agreement for the Norwegian fishing industry, especially since it does not largely solve the problems that have been intended to be solved, the conditions surrounding the fisheries in the Smutthole. I would therefore like to take part of the points in which, at least for me, the agreement does not work, and in which the organisations agree with the Progress Party. Icelandic vessels may continue uncontrolled fishing, inter alia: shrimp in the Smuthole. Icelandic shrimp fishing in the area will lead to negative consequences for those nations with historical rights in the Barents Sea shrimp fishing. The agreement involves a significant imbalance in the exchange relationship between Norway and Iceland in Norway’s disfavor. Icelandic vessels may in addition complete their catches of cod in the Norwegian zone by fishing for species other than cod in the Smutthole, as other species are not covered by the agreement. Norwegian vessels have limitations on the exploitation of the species of fish in the Icelandic zone of Norway. Icelandic shipowners may continue, through other countries, uncontrolled fishing for, among others. Norwegian-Arctic cod in the Smutthole. In this case, the Progress Party has taken the same view as the Fisheries Organisations and will vote against the proposed agreement, as the agreement, as the Progress Party sees it, does not resolve the conflict between Norway and Iceland in the Smutthull problem in a number of areas. Finally, I have to get into a couple of points. These included: by the representative of Hove, it is now possible to process 500 tonnes of bottom fish, i.e. long, blue-legged and brittle, in the Icelandic zone. The problem is that a vessel should go to Iceland and fish for this type of species, it is also dependent on being able to complete its catch. This is not possible in relation to the agreement that exists, as I read it. Then it was the case rapporteur who pointed out the positive input that restrictions would now be imposed on shrimp fishing gear in the Mutthole. Yes, it is possible that there is something to jump on the roof and be very happy about, but the only thing you have come up with is that you have to have a separator in the jet. That is the agreement, as I see it, which has at least been made in response to the representative of Bastesen. In conclusion, it is tempting to ask the Minister for Fisheries a question: does the Minister for Fisheries feel that it is reassuring to adopt a position on this agreement as an overall fishing industry – the industry to which the Minister for Fisheries is responsible – is opposed?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e912	There is an important agreement that the Storting will now decide on. After many years, attempts to reach agreement with Iceland on fishing for Norwegian-Arctic cod in the so-called Smutthole have finally succeeded in reaching a common understanding and agreement. There is every reason to congratulate the Government on this outcome and the important agreement to which the Stortinget is asked to join. However, as with all agreements designed to balance different interests, this agreement also implies a clear departure from compromise, a willingness to accept that the counterparty's interests must also be reflected in the agreement. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have no doubt that all in all this will be a good and forward-looking agreement for Norway and for Norwegian fisheries in the Arctic zone. It is a broad majority who believe that the Storting should consent to the conclusion of the agreement. Only the Contracting Party of the Parties represented in the Committee has its own comments and is not committed to the conclusion of the Agreement. I think the case rapporteur should be commended for doing a good job and gathering a broad majority behind this position. But this broad consensus does not, of course, mean that the agreement is completely without weaknesses or listening. We've heard a little bit about that. It is not difficult to find aspects of the agreement that were often worded differently, with stronger emphasis on Norwegian needs and Norwegian interests. However, the important question to ask is this: is the benefit of concluding this agreement greater than the weaknesses and disadvantages mentioned? When all parties in the Foreign Affairs Committee – with the exception of the Advance Party – consider it appropriate to conclude the agreement between Norway, Iceland and the Russian Federation, it is precisely because such an overall view is the basis of the evaluations. Despite a desire for a better balance, stronger wording on some points, the benefits of the agreement will certainly be greater than the disadvantages. It is such a starting point a must have for these assessments. The rapporteur now dealt with a number of the main areas covered by the agreement. I will therefore pay close attention to joining his comments and assessments. Let me add that the unregulated fishing of the Icelandic trawlers in the Mutthole over many years has not only posed a clear threat to the management of a fishing resource of great importance both for employment and housing in our northernmost part of the country. This activity has also been a clear burden in relation to the close and confidential links and the cooperation Norway has had with Iceland – to say – over centuries. We therefore had to remove this workshop for such reasons. Unfortunately, there were no means of international law available to stop the unregulated fishing. The government therefore depended on being able to negotiate a voluntary agreement with Iceland, and it has taken time. When this is finally done, and through many attempts at negotiation with various foreign ministers, different fisheries ministers and governments, there is every reason to pay tribute to the responsible Minister for Foreign Affairs, Vollebæk, and the Minister for Fisheries, Angelsen, for the eventual success of this agreement and for the broad support given to the agreement in Stortinget. The majority of the committees have found it appropriate to point to parts of the agreement that, in view of improvements, it is necessary to continue their work. In particular, mention is made of the need for the processing of catches in the Icelandic economic zone, and with what is now known through the meeting of Iceland’s and Norway’s fisheries ministers on 14 June of this year, a part has already been put in place in relation to the objections and weaknesses of the agreement referred to by the majority of the Committee. However, such weaknesses still remain, and a request for continued targeted work to correct them remains. However, these weaknesses cannot overshadow the fact that through these negotiations the Government has done a lot of very good diplomatic work, that we have obtained an agreement serving Norwegian fishing interests, and that the Government has received clear support in the Storting to approve the agreement. It also provides the Government with the necessary strength to address those aspects of the agreement that should still be sought through negotiations with Iceland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e935	So we've come up with an important foreign policy question where the government has done a bad job. This is a bad deal. The question is, how bad is it? There is no moment to doubt that it is desirable to have such an agreement in place, and there is no doubt that there are important things that are being achieved: that we do not have any more high-profile nabochranger with Iceland, that we have received Icelandic acceptance for an administration regime, that Iceland accepts restrictions, that there will be peace of mind about Svalbard's protection zone. That is why this also looked very good until we saw the Minutes. But there is no doubt that this protocol tells us that such an agreement has had a price, a high price. Iceland has been well paid for entering into this agreement, obtained a value of the quota exchange far beyond what Norway has received, has been given the right to operate effectively, and has been given the right to enter areas where they are without historical rights. The Norwegian values are significantly lower. There is a right to fish for battles that do not give any particular value, and there are important provisions that provide less efficient operation – although I understand that at one point there has been a slight improvement in the last few days. But it's probably a point, as Nesvik also mentioned, that this doesn't allow us to complete the catch. I therefore understand why the Norwegian fishing industry is upset, and I readily agree with Nesvik that it is an interesting point that the industry acts completely in such a matter for once. But then the question is, what does the Storting do? We're now in the situation that Sponheim has always described, that it plays a role who sits in the government. And when you look at the result, in this case, unfortunately, it does. The point is that the possibilities that existed before entering into the contract negotiations are dramatically limited once the negotiations have been concluded. I have to tell the Progress Party that it is not that you can only start using blank sheets if we now say no to this agreement. That is why the situation of Storting is in, a rather unpleasant situation of coercion: either we get no agreement and lose what is undoubtedly important with the agreement, and as I mentioned at the outset, or we get an agreement that is bad. And both of them are problematic. I have to admit that I have worked a lot on my own where I was going to land, but I have come to realize that in the longer term the damage is at least if we agree to this agreement. But I want to use this case for a very general observation. It is how important it is for the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to be more interested in our neighbourhoods and see it as important foreign policy issues. In particular, the pursuit of industrial policy interests is also an important foreign policy issue. So we thought that this was significantly better as long as we only heard about the agreement itself, but when the protocol, which gives the terms of exchange, and the detailed rules have come into place, we see how much Iceland has been paid. Let me stress again: the government must take the important foreign policy issues in our neighbourhoods considerably more seriously than it has so far done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e956	I will not contribute to extending a debate where, in my opinion, the most important thing has been said. I mainly agree with what Mr Hove said, as I understood it, was quite similar to what Kjell Engebretsen said and, of course, also what Einar Steensnæs said, and which we can sum up in two points. This is not a very good deal. It is very easy to see a number of points in this agreement that should have been better, from a Norwegian point of view. On the other hand, there is the relief from the fact that an agreement has been reached and thus it has stopped what I believe is a total increase felt very unworthy, namely such a similar situation between two countries that are as close as Norway and Iceland are to each other. Despite the fact that it is easy to see objections to it – the objections raised by the Fiskerlage in the Committee, one cannot imagine – we clearly believe that the Storting should support this agreement in order to be able to enter into our relationship with Iceland in the years to come on a new and better basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e963	Let it be quite clear that in isolation it is positive that Norway has an agreement with Iceland to regulate fishing in Smuttholet. This is about our closest neighbor and our brothers, and we have many common characteristics, including: that we are heavily dependent on our natural resources. In this way, we should have the best intentions to understand each other's position, and thus acted in a friendly way. However, when there is reason to point to different relationships in the protocol itself that are the subject of the agreement, there is a clear imbalance when it comes to what the parties give and take. Now there have also been cases of putting in place a Smutthol agreement with Iceland, but it has not been possible to reach a balanced agreement that the Government has been able to sign and present to the Stortinget. This agreement that the Government has now signed and asks the Government to approve does not have such a balance. There's an imbalance in the quota change in the agreement, and it's in the favor of Iceland. There is a lack of balance when it comes to the type of catch that fishermen can take. Norwegian vessels fishing by line may, for example: not in the same turn fishing in international waters, while Icelandic fishermen may fish in the Smutthole and Svalbardsona for species other than cod when they are on their way to fish for agreed cod quotas in the Norwegian economic zone. On the plusida it must be said that now Norwegian fishermen can in any case further process and freeze the meat and the head coat fish in the Icelandic zone; that is good. It seems to me that it would not have been advisable to produce a better protocol. There is thus every reason to congratulate Iceland on the outcome of the negotiations, and to suggest that other countries look forward to being met with the same flexible hold when they want quotas on us, for example. The Faroe Islands, which for a long time has come with us to get a certain percentage of the total cod extraction in the Barents Sea. There is a reason to ask whether other countries will also report. The big question is whether this agreement with Iceland solves the problem of fishing in the Smuthole. To that is the answer no. The appointment cannot stop other fishing nations from fishing there. Nor does the agreement regulate fishing on other species of fish for anyone. I have noticed what Peter Angelsen said in the interpellation debate on 16 April 1997: ‘In the end, let me just say that it sounds good to find a solution with Iceland, that Iceland gets an quota in the Barents Sea. But in principle it will be wrong. Firstly, Iceland has no historical fishing or fishing rights to claim in the Barents Sea. In addition, an allowance solution with Iceland will not solve the problem in general. We may be faced with the same requirement for quota rights from all States Parties or other fishing nations claiming to have the same right as Iceland to participate in cod fishing in the Barents Sea.» It is alarming that Minister of Fisheries Angelsen now seems to have a completely different view of the situation. And besides, now, when, for different reasons, fishing in the Mutthole is not so much cod, the agreement is concluded. What is now suggesting that what was fundamentally wrong in 1997 is fully advisable in 1999? In addition, I am wondering to what extent the Government has been able to influence countries with which we cooperate, to ratify the UN agreement of 4 August 1995, which regulates fishing in open sea areas. With this appointment in place, i.e. ratified by 30 countries – today there are 24 countries that have ratified the agreement – the problem would have been solved far by road without this quota allocation from the Norwegian side. This, together with the fact that there is now little cod in the Mutthole, makes it almost incomprehensible that there has been such a willingness by the Minister for Fisheries to give away quotas in the Norwegian economic zone now. I hope the Government has noticed that the Committee's comments stress that the balance of the agreement must be enhanced by any revision of the protocol. It clearly shows that there is no enthusiasm for the Storting when we today approve this negotiated agreement with the attached protocol. And there is no reason, as the representative Steensnæs repeated several times in his speech, to congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Fisheries on the negotiated agreement, it must be quite clear.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e985	We are currently dealing with something called the Smutthull agreement, which gives the impression that the uncontrolled fishing in the Smutthole will cease. That is clearly not the case. We are dealing with a trilateral agreement between Norway, Iceland and Russia on cod fishing in the Smutthole. The agreement does not deal with other fish, only the by-catch that you had to get. Just after the agreement was concluded, Icelandic shrimp trawlers entered the dirt hole and started fishing. Today there are three Icelandic boats fishing in the Smutthole, where the Coast Guard has to ask permission to get on board. April 18, 1989, was a day of horror for the coastal population, and it will be remembered for many, many years. The cod fishing was then stopped and people had to land the boat. It led to bankruptcy, family tragedy and dissolved families. People were reported to fish coca fish and to give fish away to their neighbors. The people have lived with formidable restrictions to rebuild the cod population, as the researchers claimed was submerged. The problems that coastal people have experienced have gained. There was more fish. But there were others who discovered that there was more fish in the Barents Sea. The gain was largely exploited for piracy fishing, I'll call it. Today, large parts of the coastal fleet are on land due to a lack of quota and a lack of by-catch. Norwegian coastal fishermen today get a by-catch of 20 pst. when fishing for other species. In the agreement that the Icelanders have received, they receive 30 pst. by-catch. It's another moment that I want to pull in. As soon as you talk about Iceland, and Iceland as a fishing nation, it's the David syndrome that's being pulled out. A small example: in the mid-1980s, Iceland had 10 factory trawlers, Norway had 33. Today, however, Iceland has approx. 100 factory trawlers, Norway has 22. In addition, they are involved in virtually all of the Baltic fleet and large parts of the German trawler fleet. It proves that Icelandic shipowners have cynically exploited the quota sales they have made at home to build an enormous overcapacity with the released capital. And they're picking up the profit of what the coastal population in Norway has saved. So it was claimed by the Government that an agreement has been reached to stop the registration of boats in other countries in order to get them under flags of convenience. Article 6 states that the Parties shall work together to determine the possibility and, where appropriate, to take measures to prevent their citizens from registering ships in other countries which impair the effectiveness of the agreement. What kind of guarantee is there in that? In my opinion absolutely no obligation! There's hardly enough expressed willingness to do anything about it. So a little bit about the balance of the agreement: 17 000 tons of weight we get. That's about the exact same thing that we had before Iceland canceled the soldering agreement. Now we get it again because they get cod with us. Then we're renegotiating naturalities, like production and freezing on board. Why are the Icelandics going to be allowed to produce and not we? In addition, liner boats going over are not to be allowed to fish in international waters, and they are to remain only in Iceland under the agreement. We'll get about. Seven million. NOK back after giving away 80 million. kr. There is no balanced agreement. We leave the principle that we have had since Eivind Bolle's time and the introduction of the 200-mile economic zone, and the door is opened by the Minister of Fisheries. I have distributed a proposal in the Chamber that I would like to address, but after further consideration I do not address the proposal. It might have been done!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1001	Let me start by saying that I think it is nice that the representative Bastesen does not address his proposal. I don't know if he takes it as a compliment, but at least –. I would like to start by saying that I think this is a good agreement. After years of negotiations, the Norwegian, Icelandic and Russian authorities have succeeded in agreeing on a cooperation that creates more orderly conditions for our important fisheries in the north. This is based on the existing Norwegian-Russian administrative cooperation in the Barents Sea. Under current international law, it is not possible for Norway to prevent fishing in the Smutthole without a specific agreement. Norway, together with 21 other States, has ratified the 1995 UN Agreement on the Conservation and Management of Migrant Fish Stocks and Long-range Migrant Fish Stocks, the so-called UN Agreement. This lays down the framework conditions for responsible resource management for populations walking between national zones and the open seas beyond 200 miles. And the dirt hole is outside the 200-mile economic zone. However, the entry into force of the United Nations Agreement requires 30 ratifications. Waiting for the formal entry into force of the United Nations Agreement to find an appropriate solution to the unregulated Icelandic fisheries in the Barents Sea is not, in the Government’s view, justified. The objectives and principles on which the Smutthull Agreement is based are fully consistent with the United Nations Agreement. Under the UN Agreement, the parties shall cooperate, either directly, regionally or sub-regionally, on the management of the stocks concerned. The Mutthull Agreement is an example of such direct cooperation between the parties. It is therefore compatible with the long-term implementation of the United Nations Agreement. The unregulated fishing of Icelandic trawlers in the Smutthole has been a threat for many years to the consistent and sustainable management of the main fishing resource managed by the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission, namely Norwegian-Arctic cod. In the years 1993-98, vessels flying the flag of Iceland accounted for approx. 75 pst. of the total unregulated take-off, with catches of approximately 32000 tonnes in peak years. The total cod quota offered in the Norwegian and Russian economic zones of 8,900 tonnes must be seen in the light of these figures. The Smutthull agreement is not a normal allowance swap. However, I have noted the Committee's call to seek a better balance in the direct quota exchange with Iceland when the protocol is being renegotiated. I believe that the agreement, based on an overall assessment, appears to be balanced and takes care of our interests. Through the agreement, we put an end to the unregulated Icelandic cod fishery in the Smutthole. This is done through cooperation whereby Iceland is given predictable quotas under the Norwegian-Russian administrative regime. Moreover, these allowances are given in our zones and thus fall under our own jurisdiction. This ensures one of the most efficient resource management regimes in the world, namely the Norwegian-Russian. The agreement also gives us Icelandic support to a number of instruments that have been rejected in the past, e.g. call-back as an instrument against non-regulated fishing. In addition, in the bilateral protocols with Norway and Russia, Iceland waives the right to operate pilot fishing throughout the Barents Sea. The present agreement gives us both a fisheries policy and a foreign policy normalization of relations with Iceland. It provides a basis for more effective solutions to common problems based on international law and principles of sustainable management. Furthermore, we have a basis for including Iceland's unfortunate Icelandic fishing practices which are not explicitly mentioned in the individual articles of the agreement. We have all done this and have received a positive response, which the Minister for Fisheries will explain in more detail. Similarly, in relation to the efforts of both countries in multilateral organisations, with a view to ensuring sustainable fisheries, the agreement provides for enhanced cooperation. In sum, I would say that the agreement represents a milestone in the development of responsible resource management measures in the Barents Sea and that it marks the beginning of a fisheries policy cooperation that should shape our relationship with a close neighbour like Iceland. The agreement will enter into force once it has been finally approved by the three countries. For Norway, this is hopefully done by the Storting giving its consent today. The Icelandic Everything approved the agreement yesterday. The government also hopes that Russia will first have completed its internal approval procedure. Norway will thus have reciprocal fisheries agreements with all major fishing nations active in the North Atlantic. This agency gives us control over the management of fish stocks of crucial importance for business and housing. Without an agreement with the fishing storm power Iceland such control would have been unattainable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1024	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1027	In connection with the preparations and the preparation of such an agreement, I expect that the conversations have been many and the themes vary. Not everything, I think, is being put into protocol or concrete in agreements. Over time, there have been certain tensions between Norway and Iceland regarding the Svalbard fishing protection zone, and I understand that these issues have also been given certain policy solutions in connection with the work that has taken place in connection with the Smuttull agreement. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirm that this is the case and, where appropriate, elaborate on its contents?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1034	The principle and international legal aspects of the Svalbard problem have not been affected in the negotiations, nor has our fisheries regime in the protection zone been a negotiating issue as such, although the agreement implies that Iceland accepts in practice the management system throughout the Barents Sea – and it has been important for us – and that Iceland specifically, according to the agreement, also waives the possibility of requiring fishing opportunities on lotteries or requiring additional cod quotas in some parts of the Barents Sea, in other words also in the Svalbard Zone. Of course, the Government places considerable emphasis on securing what we regard as a very successful resource management regime in the protection zone, and we believe that the agreement contributes to this. In this respect, I just want to add that, in the discussions on the agreement, which the representative of the European Union had in mind, I have also received assurances from the Icelandic Minister for Foreign Affairs that Iceland will not use the Smutthull agreement politically to take up Svalbard's status at the Hague Court.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1041	The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that it was ‘a good deal’ – that’s what was the beginning of the inauguration to the Council of State. After listening to the debate here, and the Council of State has also done so, it is clear that the signals to the Government are that the Stortinget does not think there is a very good agreement – at least as much as one can interpret signals from, among other things. Rita Tveiten, Jan Petersen and me, who we have joined in our contributions. But it is only the Progress Party and the Bastesen representative who will vote against the agreement itself, so you can well find a balance there. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is on shrimp fishing in the Barents Sea. It is said that an agreement has been reached with Iceland on the divorce problem, but it is a fact that there are Icelandic boats in the Mutthole today fishing for shrimp. It causes by-catch here, and it also has negative consequences for those who have historical rights to shrimp fishing in the Barents Sea. My question is then: How much cod does the Foreign Minister think we should have given up in order to get an agreement for shrimps as well?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1048	There is a phenomenal misunderstanding when discussing this agreement, and as I tried to say in my post, it concerns the relationship with what opportunities we have to regulate fishing. The dirt hole is outside the 200-mile zone; it is not part of the Norwegian regulated waters. We were facing a situation where the Icelandic vessels could continue fishing without further delay, and they could also continue fishing shrimps. And the fact that we have now managed to control cod fishing, but still does not control shrimp fishing, cannot be held against an agreement that regulates cod fishing. But because of the improved relationship with Iceland, we've made them accept a divorcer. I am not a specialist in shrimp fishing or cod fishing, but at least it has been told to me that the separator just leads to that it will not be caught by-catch. We wouldn't have done that if we hadn't had the agreement we have today, so also with regard to the consequences of the unregulated shrimp fishing, the situation is improved in relation to what it would have been without the agreement we have today. And I want – even though I might get the chance to do it again – to take the idea of what the representative Jan Petersen said, that we don't put in a ‘blank sheet’. The government had as its background an attempt at a 1996 draft agreement. The draft agreement operated with a much greater imbalance than the agreement we negotiated today. I think what's important here is to remember that we were in a situation where we were concerned about preserving the resource base, controlling the resource base. We have achieved that in the government's opinion, while improving the relationship with Iceland, which means that we can now also cooperate in a wider context, in multilateral forums, on fisheries issues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1058	I have to admit, I think it is quite strong by the Minister of Foreign Affairs after he has put on the anger of an overall fishing industry in an area that regulates their daily lives and their future, saying at the same time that this was «a good deal». I am absolutely convinced that the Minister for Foreign Affairs means it, but – I guess I get to say it this way – that's why it turned out the way it was, if the ambitions were not greater than he now thinks this was a good deal. And here we are talking about some of the problems, I think, this is an important part of Norwegian foreign policy that is not managed with enough pressure and enough intensity. These are important negotiations which must be conducted with political weight. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has many secretaries, who at this time had time to hold generous seminars with the Cubans, whether they could be so kind and become more democratic, but who were not put on a task of this kind. That's why I challenge the Foreign Minister now to take these questions more seriously. But then let's look at the future a little bit. It is enough that a majority in the European Parliament believes that the content of this agreement is not very good – to say the least – in terms of quota exchange and the problems arising from the protocol. And my question is: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see any possibility of making any improvements in these areas, and in that case how will he deal with that question?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1067	: I take note that the representative Petersen believes that we in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do not pay enough attention to the work on the neighbourhoods. I'm not sure I fully agree with the representative. I just think this agreement shows the emphasis we put on the neighbourhoods, and the interest we have in getting solutions. This has been worked on for six years, and no previous Norwegian government has done it. We made an agreement that is – as I said – significantly better than the draft agreement we had in 1996. And that is exactly what the representative Petersen pointed out, that one must take on the basis of what is real. I also want to remind the representative that we have discussed a WTO agreement earlier today, where the Right was committed to reaching international agreements. The trilateral agreement we have now reached is in line with the work being done to achieve ratification of the UN agreement, and is therefore a step towards achieving more comprehensive international regulation. Now it is not quite right that the overall fishing industry fully agrees on how bad this agreement is; there are different views in the fisheries organisations. However, unlike the previous draft agreement, we have a floor in this agreement, and we also have the opportunity to renegotiate the agreement. I have noticed the Storting's view of the quota exchange scheme, and we will of course consider the possibilities to improve this when renegotiating the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1076	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1079	Let me start by saying that I am quite surprised when I hear the Foreign Minister's argument in this debate. He indicates that the Smutthole is not part of the Norwegian economic zone, and he is quite right in that. But at the same time, as a justification, I cannot understand whether it is the foreign minister's position that he thus believes that Iceland has some historical rights they can share with Norway, which would require them in this agreement to get the result they have received. If he really means it, he has to put on the table documentation. In my opinion, the tripartite agreement concluded with Iceland in this trade relationship conflicts with the whole basic idea of the UN Convention, for which I thought Norway was really a driver. It is completely irrelevant when the Minister for Foreign Affairs is mixing the WTO Agreement as a kind of secondary justification for what has been achieved with the Stortinget today. What the whole UN Convention is to rely on is to gain control of fishing on the open international seas, which are currently unregulated. It's in that context that Iceland has been a power that there is a strong need for international control. We have fisheries that threaten populations, the catches go down year after year, and we're in a water that's also threatened. When one also gives the impression in this debate that if one does not get an agreement, we have other areas – the Norwegian economic zone, the protection zone around Svalbard, Jan Mayen, Smutthavet – that could then be affected. I think it is rather worrying that you perform here today to give the impression that if you do not get this agreement in place, the Norwegian authority will be threatened in this area. At the same time, when you let it go through in this debate, you have to be able to put a greater weight and a better record on the table than you have been able to do today. If it can be disputed that neither Iceland nor Russia accepts the Norwegian authorities' orders in the protection zones, then someone has to refute this today, because it is far from the case. I think it can help weaken our arguments rather than strengthen the jurisdiction of Norwegian authorities in these areas, when these arguments are used today. The agreement is nothing but a premiere of a power that has taken its toll. It is clear that when Norwegian fishermen are – in order to use a parliamentary expression – irritated, it should of course be understood. You have a completely unbalanced exchange ratio. What has been the main idea of any negotiation that Norway has embarked on in order to control fishing on migratory populations is that there should be a balance in this. When, in today's debate, the Foreign Minister also performs to say that there are different views in the Norwegian fisheries on this agreement – from where in the name of heaven did he get it? It has at least not reached my ears, and I have tried to keep up with this debate over a certain period of time. The initial value of Norwegian fishermen under the agreement amounts to a loss of revenue of around 80 million. kr. If you take this amount times 3, you have an export value per. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 200-250 million. kr. Clearly, this creates irritation, and it creates an imbalance – Norwegian fishermen have to pay for what is included in this agreement. It is clear that there is a considerable irritation to see how Iceland manages its fisheries regime, has fished up its own stocks in its own waters, and then one has to cope either by its own flag or by the flag of a third country or by the flag of a third country. The representative Steensnæs talked about the close ties we have to Iceland. Yes, of course we will take care of them, but I can't imagine that there is any need for Norwegian Storing to issue a gift note in this connection, and for which we have to send a bill to Norwegian fisheries. Finally, I note that the farther away from the foreign politicians in the National Assembly, with the exception of Jan Petersen, is the Norwegian economic zone, the stronger you are, but I see that liberalism is largely the same.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1102	Let me start by stressing one thing that has not come to light in the debate, namely that the agreement that has been reached here is not just a bilateral agreement between Norway and Iceland, but a tripartite agreement. We have two sides on the one hand, Norway and Russia on the other, which have a joint management of the cod, and which must necessarily agree on the position to be taken in the negotiations with Iceland. Let me just point out from that point of view that the fisheries agreement between Norway, Russia and Iceland in the Barents Sea brings the Icelandic fisheries for cod and other bottom fish under control within the annual quotas and regulations laid down in the Fisheries Agreement between Norway and Russia. That is why this agreement is politically and administratively important. It has been and is impossible for Norway, or Russia for that matter, to prevent fishing in the Smutthole or other areas outside the 200-mile zone when no regional administrative regimes are established covering such international waters. It is important to note that when it is pointed out from critics of the agreement that a rather choice would be made through the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission (NEAFC), such administrative regimes only apply to those countries that approve them. This is why Russia and Norway have found it a better solution to conclude a direct agreement with Iceland, which has been the dominant player in Smuttull fishing. As you know, this is also in line with the UN agreement on fishing on the high seas. This agreement regulates fishing in the Barents Sea through agreements with the largest and most important fishing nations in the North-East Atlantic, thus strengthening the regime for the sustainable management of the fish stocks in the Barents Sea established by Norway and Russia. Sustainable resource use has been and is the dominant consideration of all management measures in the Barents Sea, such as in all areas and for all species where Norway has administrative responsibilities. That is why we have negotiated an agreement that improves the control of fishing for cod and other regulated species in the Barents Sea, and by-catch is protected in the field of shrimp fishing, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. The representative of Bastisen's claim of 30 pst. by-catch is not correct. What's coming out of the deal is that Iceland can get up to 30 pst. by-catch in accordance with the regulatory provisions laid down by Norway, and that would be the same for Icelandic and Norwegian trawlers in that area. It is pointed out that the agreement is unbalanced, that Iceland has received more fish than they have returned. It is correctly isolated, but here it is important to include in the assessment that the agreement is not just about quota exchange. Through the agreement, Iceland has refused its international access to fishing for cod outside 200 nautical miles, to fishing for cod in the Svalbard zone and to fishing for weights throughout the Barents Sea. In addition, the agreement is suspended if the total quota for Norwegian-Arctic cod in the Barents Sea is set at less than 350 000 tonnes. These are elements which are not contained in the other fisheries agreements we have concluded which provide fishing opportunities for third countries in the Barents Sea. And important in this series: Iceland has accepted the Norwegian-Russian administrative regime as a competent executive body for the whole of the Barents Sea, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs said in his statement. Icelandic vessels’ shrimp fishing in international Barents Sea waters has been drawn up as an example of the fact that the Smutthull agreement has not solved any problems; it has been used primarily by the Norwegian Fisheries Team as an argument against the agreement, and it emerges from the debate here. The Barents Sea restocking is not allowances. Furthermore, no common management regime has been established for the regulation of shrimp fisheries between Norway and Russia. It is said that Norway, or any other country, cannot enforce regulations in international waters. Demanding discussions with countries fishing for an unregulated stock in international waters will make no sense, and it is incomprehensible to me that this has been launched as a proposal. However, the Smutthull Agreement has enabled Norway to ask Iceland to impose gills in shrimp fishing in order to avoid catching young cod. This was introduced into the Icelandic regulatory body immediately after it had been taken up by the Norwegian side. This shows that through the Smutthull agreement, Iceland has accepted our protective measures to prevent the incorporation of by-catch and juvenile fish by irradiation by shrimps in international waters and by fishing on an unregulated species. The agreement also obliges Iceland to introduce a landing facility for unregulated vessels. As a consequence, Iceland-wide vessels under flags of convenience cannot land fish from the Barents Sea in Iceland, even in contrast to the relationship before the Smutthull Agreement was concluded. There has always been a common understanding between the parties that the allowances allocated under the agreement would be real fish that could be exploited by the country’s fishing fleet. In line with this, Iceland has used the derogation in its legislation to allow the freezing of fish on board Norwegian line fishing. When I met the Icelandic Fisheries Minister on Monday, the question was raised and clarified on the spot. And it actually shows the will that underpins all the intentions of the agreement also from Iceland. I can also mention that although this has not been a major issue this year, the Icelandic authorities allowed immediately after the agreement was concluded that Norwegian self-employed people can once again enter the Icelandic economic zone if the ice conditions warrant it. I can also add that on Monday there was agreement between the Icelandic Minister for Fisheries and signed that Norway and Iceland should go further and see how we can develop cooperation in the field of marine mammals, not least in terms of the capture of seals in the West ice, which we operate in the Jan Mayen zone, but we need to have greater flexibility in the Icelandic zone as well. It is therefore clear to me that when assessing the fisheries aspects of the agreement, the quota exchange provided for in the Protocol cannot be considered in isolation. These direct and indirect impacts that ensure better resource management in the Barents Sea, which will in the long term give higher quotas to all, are important elements that ensure the long-term sustainable management of the resources in the Barents Sea, which are of great importance to Norwegian fishing industry and large parts of the coast. The Smutthull agreement provides us with the basis for exploiting this for the benefit of Norwegian fisheries. With the Smutthull agreement, Norway, Russia and Iceland have shown responsibility for finding solutions to a conflict that was undermining the established Barents Sea administrative regime, an effect that would only increase if it had continued over time. A number of questions have been raised and, to the extent that some allegations have also been made in the debate that are not correct. The thing about by-catch fishing, about which the representative Bastesen made a crazy claim, I have responded. As regards the balance of the agreement, it should be noted that an agreement under the United Nations Agreement on fishing for migratory stocks would also create an imbalance. There will have to be set aside a separate quota in the Smuthole, which the countries that will have the right to fish on that quota will have no counterparts. In all the agreements Norway has with other countries on fishing in the Barents Sea, only the balanced agreement between Norway and Greenland is as far as we are concerned. Otherwise, in all the other agreements it is an imbalance to the detriment of Norway. It has to do with the historical fisheries that the fishing nations currently fishing in the Barents Sea have had. You could say that it doesn't have Iceland, but Iceland's agreement is balanced in a different way. It has organized the resource management in the Barents Sea by denying Iceland the rights they actually have under international law to be able to fish freely in the Smutthole until an agreement under the United Nations regime would have been in place. It could have given Iceland much greater financial gain than they want from the agreement today. So the calculation Ivar Kristiansen put forward is completely wrong, and I'm surprised how busy some people are trying to run a polemic that is not in line with the actual content of the agreement, to give the impression that the agreement is bad.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1145	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1148	I do not regret that in the end I was also concerned that many people were trying to make a representation that this was a bad agreement. If all those who have spoken up to now, when matters are being dealt with, and all those who have spoken today, are of that opinion, there is at least a major pedagogical problem here which the Minister for Fisheries must take seriously. Initially, the Minister for Fisheries was concerned with a tripartite agreement and that it is not only the relationship with Iceland that has to be taken into account, but also the relationship with Russia. Does he then try to say that Russia would go further in its admission to Iceland, and that it has been a problem for Norway so that we have to give ourselves? Is that the problem? Otherwise, it has been shown in the past that an agreement from 1996 was worse than the one currently recommended. But until that is said, because that agreement was so bad, it was never signed and submitted to the Stortinget. The Minister for Fisheries must also take it inwards, and he cannot base it on what is an optimal result this time. There is also reason to note that there is little fish in the Smuthole now, and the researchers say that there will be a long time ahead based on the temperature ratio. We had therefore had time to wait to conclude such an agreement without risking that additional land was fished in this area. So to the question that I have to the Minister for Fisheries: what does Angelsen understand and see clearly today that he did not see and understand in 1997, when he went an interpellation on this topic? Then he said that it would be fundamentally wrong to give Iceland fishing rights and quotas in the Barents Sea because they lack historical dishes in the area. I have received this from the archive on Stortinget and the report from the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1161	I have seen a look in the newspapers that I should have changed my mind. I have found both my contribution and that of the Minister of Fisheries from 1997, and if the minutes were read in full, I would see that I was clearly supported in finding a solution with Iceland. But what I said was that an agreement with Iceland alone was not enough. I initially said that the agreement we have now concluded is not a purely quota agreement. The main elements lie in the administrative progress that has been made in Iceland’s failure to exercise its international right to fish freely in the Smutthole – we do not have a regulatory system for it – and to comply with Norwegian-Russian regulations for the whole of the Barents Sea, and they have been given a quota for what they partially, with about. 50 pst. redundancy, compensated. That is what is happening, and indeed the difference in relation to the agreement that was in place in 1996, and as I thought it was right that the then government did not accept – they had our full support for further progress. But it is well that time matures many conflicts, and I would say so that on the part of Iceland there has been a ripening in order to arrive at a solution that could be acceptable to Norway and Russia. And through the process we've now had, we've found the grips that would make it possible to secure an administrative regime that really closes the Barents Sea. That is what I think is positive about the agreement and that we have solved. Norway and Russia, of course, do not have conflicts in this regard. We have had to discuss what was important and have come up with common wording. What is the basis for this is that we are two countries on the one hand. Therefore, such an agreement has a special structure. Something must be in the agreement itself, what is common, and then we have the protocols that apply to Norway/Iceland and Iceland/Russia, which become bilateral. It is that the agreement concerns three countries, which means that the agreement has the structure it currently has.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1170	After following this debate for a while, I think my conclusion must be that what we're really doing is buying us free from what we think is a problem. And then the question is, is the price we pay, is it too high, or is it appropriate, or does you have no view of it? The undersigned has always claimed that the price we pay here to Iceland is too high in relation to what we get back, and what kind of problem you solve. What I want to ask the Council of State about, I was also in my post: Is not the Minister for Fisheries concerned that he has an overall fishing industry against him? The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his speech that there was a division of views in the fishing industry. Well, I haven't been able to find this shared view. All the signal I've been given is that you're totally negative to the agreement on the Smutthull problem. That is why it might be a little interesting to hear if the Minister for Fisheries really thinks – and then I am talking to him as Minister for Fisheries – that this agreement is really so satisfied that you are trying to give the impression, or is it a College of Government that has overrun the Minister for Fisheries as Minister for Fisheries?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1179	Let me answer the last one first. The Minister for Fisheries has by no means been overrun. Negotiations have taken place in close cooperation with the Minister for Fisheries. The Ministry of Fisheries has been represented on all sides of the negotiations, and there has been a consensus between us. And as I said in my post, the agreement is overall very good, very good for the future management of the resources in the Barents Sea, and it has elements in it that are also an advantage for the development of further international cooperation in such conflict areas, and that are positive for Norway. In this respect with the total fishing industry: yes, the fishing industry has taken a stand and it places it on the market. What surprises me is that the fishing industry uses inappropriate arguments, including: in the case of the balance sheet. I have also noticed in my dealings with both representatives of the fishing organisations and fishermen, that there are different views on this. In fact, the Association of Fishermen in Ålesund is much more nuanced and reflected in terms of the agreement than has been expressed through the opinions of the leader of the Norwegian Fisheries Team. There are also opinions on the agreement, including: by the leader of Finnmark County Fisheries Team, which is positive. All three districts in North Norway have signed the agreement. Many fishermen are represented in the counties, so it is nice not to have the disagreement of the overall fishing industry with regard to the agreement also emerged in the debates there and in the decisions taken. In that case, we bought ourselves a free ticket, it's a false claim. Iceland could have fished a lot more than what is in the agreement, by not having an agreement, and it is also reflected in the fact that there is also disagreement in Iceland. In yesterday's vote in Everything, 16 representatives voted blank and 1 against. If we could have voted blank in the Storting, I'll tip it off that it had been reflected the same way in the Storting today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1188	There is a reference to the fact that we are wrong here, one by one, and the Minister for Fisheries now refers to the Federation of Fishermen. If the Council of State had taken the time to read the statement of the League of Fishermen, I think he might not have made the statement he made. Here it is pointed out that there has been a maturing along the way, and it is quite obvious that there has been a great degree of maturation. When I think back to the situation in 1997, and now, with a view from 1999, the transformation that has taken place, I actually thought on my way up to the pulpit: how would the shelf choir be if there had been a Right Council that had achieved such a result as that one has to be treated today? But we can leave it in this context. The question to Angelsen is: does he really think, as he has said, that ratification of the UN Convention would have given a worse deal than the outcome of the agreement? The second question: why does the agreement not deal with more fish species than it does? At the end of the day, I would like to see a division of labour for the future where there is no talk of overrun – one must at least be present or close to being run over – but that the Minister for Fisheries takes care of the fisheries policy and that the Minister for Foreign Affairs takes care of foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1201	In the case of such agreements with other countries, it is, after all, established in the Norwegian Constitution that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for them. Of course, if Ivar Kristiansen wants to change that, he has to take up that proposal. In this case, I talked about being reflected and having nuances in relation to the agreement. But of course, the industry has chosen to take its extreme position; that the agreement is not as good as they would have it, that is. Iceland should not have allowances. Iceland's industry has taken its position on the other hand, that the agreement is too bad for them. They will have an allowance that will be free of charge and in line with what has been their average fishing in the years they have fished up there. And that's okay, in such a context, it's rarely that a government gets industry involved in the compromises that are necessary to get international solutions. So you just have to take that with you. When it comes to whether a Right-State Council would be able to reach such an agreement, I don't know. Maybe Ivar Kristiansen will be the best one to answer that. But at least it's a good deal, and if a Right-State Council had come up with such an agreement to Stortinget and I had been sitting here, he'd get praise from me – that's good for sure! [[Laughter]] And then to the question, why doesn't the agreement contain more species of fish? It contains the species of fish we consider necessary in a cod fishing agreement. These are the natural by-catches for which we have experience, and which we put into our regulations with regard to Norwegian and Russian fishermen and third-country fishermen who have a deal in the Barents Sea. It's the exact same ratio that's taken in there, we don't have to add paper fish that's not found in catches. There are real fish on both sides of the deal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1212	The cord shift is over. The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1217	I am very surprised at the agreement that the Government is now presenting to the Stortinget. And I'm very surprised that the Council of State Angelsen in her contribution legitimizes Iceland's fishing in the Smutthole. The Agreement is contrary to the fundamental principle of Norway’s international fisheries agreements, namely the principle of balance between the Contracting Parties. It is desirable to end Iceland's unregulated fishing in the Mutthole, and it is desirable to end the conflict with a close neighbor. The Governments of the Workers' Party have also tried to find solutions between Norway, Russia and Iceland, but it has been a fundamental principle that an agreement must be balanced. As late as 1996, a solution had come a long way. However, Iceland could not contribute to providing Norway with balanced access to the Island zone. The government of the Workers' Party could not accept that, and therefore there was no agreement. So what's the central government doing now? Well, they have given substantial concessions to Iceland, and they have accepted the agreement as unbalanced. The Bondevik government has accepted contract principles to which the Labour Party governments refused. And the government of Bondevik has done so in a situation where fishing in the Smutthole is worse and with Iceland's negotiating position far weaker. How is that possible? It started with a fisheries minister who was going to expand the economic zone to stop fishing in the Smutthole, it ended with a fisheries minister who said yes to an unbalanced agreement, to which the Labour Party governments said no. This is not a good deal. Rarely has the Stortinget been so close by rejecting a negotiated agreement. It would be dramatic, and it would weaken Norway's confidence in international negotiations. Therefore, Stortinget feels obliged to accept the agreement entered into. But in this area too, you really have to ask what the central government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1230	The representative of Kristiansen challenged me on the basis that the Norwegian jurisdiction over Svalbard and the protection zone was threatened, and that it was important for us to have an Icelandic acceptance for Norwegian jurisdiction and an acceptance that the Svalbard Treaty did not cover the protection zone. Of course, the basis for the challenge we have faced goes back to the challenges we have received several times from Iceland regarding the question of the protection zone to be included in the Svalbard Treaty. From the Norwegian side, we have claimed that this is not the case. We've made it clear that we have jurisdiction in the protection zone. However, the Stortinget will be aware that, by 1994-95 at the latest, we had a number of foreign registered vessels — often with Icelandic interests — fishing illegally in the fishing protection zone. We will also remember that the Coast Guard's enforcement aimed at stopping illegal fishing in a number of acute situations included the use of power. It has therefore not been such that the Icelandic challenge has not been addressed at all. It was therefore important, although this was not a negotiating theme, that this was also ensured during the negotiations we had. And in my view, the insurance I have received from Minister of Foreign Affairs Asgrimsson is of such a nature that it is also positive when we look at Norwegian jurisdiction in the protection zone around Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1237	The debate has shown that there is a great degree of frustration and scepticism in the agreement, even among the parties behind the common note that is important to the Government in terms of signing the agreement and ratifying it. That scepticism can be well understood, and I think that everyone who has spoken has expressed a balanced view of that relationship. However, the impression that I think is being tried was made that this agreement should be unacceptable, I do not think there is any basis for that. There is an imbalance in the contractual allowances. However, both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Fisheries have stressed that this is something you cannot see in isolation. The exchange of allowances is not only the important assessment criterion for the agreement, because the Smutthull agreement is not a normal allowance swap. I refer to what the Minister of Fisheries said about fishing for solders and cod being included in this agreement between Russia, Norway and Iceland in such a way that it concerns not only the unregulated fishing in the Mutthole but throughout the Barents Sea, throughout the Arctic zone. I also refer to the option, namely that we do not have any international agreements that could force Iceland to limit or regulate its own catches on these species of fish in the Arctic zone. The alternative is therefore an unlimited catch of these fish species, which could threaten the sustainable strains on which Norwegian fisheries depend and which are particularly important for housing and employment. So the starting point was worse than what we got in the agreement, and that must be the perspective. It is also pointed out to the United Nations agreement that it should be an alternative. Unfortunately, we have not come to the conclusion that the UN agreement has been ratified by a sufficient number of countries, so this is not an option today. And the Minister for Fisheries stresses that the UN agreement will also result in an imbalance in the sense that the countries that enter into that agreement must accept the need to give quotas to the countries that enter into the agreement without any return.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1253	At the end of my main post, I would come up with what was really the problem with the agreement, and that is that it is not balanced. Norway has left a general principle that we should have balanced agreements in all negotiations with other countries. It's been solid ever since we got into the 200-mile economic zone in Eivind Bolle's time. He slammed the door again. There has to be a new looting to open that door on a wide gap. That is the danger, and that is the concern I have in this agreement. We had an effective way to prevent uncontrolled fishing in the Barents Sea. It was a blacklist that was introduced. It was the Icelanders afraid, it was Norwegian shipowners afraid, it was all afraid. There was an attempt on an international blacklist that was introduced. It was cancelled with a pen stroke on the same day as this agreement was signed. It was an effective way to stop uncontrolled fishing in the Barents Sea, by refusing to place on the market or refuse to allow vessels fishing in the Smutthole, access to the Norwegian economic zone. That possibility was lost when the agreement was signed. What kind of instruments do we now have when the Faroe Islands come and demand the same treatment as Iceland has received? How can we say no to the Faroe Islands? How can we say no to Baltic jets coming here, owned by the Icelandics? How can we say no to other countries that do the exact same thing as Iceland did? What rights can we claim? We have deviated from the principle of balance. We've opened a door, and that's what's the greatest danger to the whole deal. There is talk of nuances in the League of Fishermen. Yes, it was supposed to be just missing! Who has benefited from this agreement? Well, it is the pelagic sector that gets 17 000 tonnes of weight, and they are well organized in the Federation of Fishermen. They are not organized either in the Nordland Fylkes Fiskerlag or in one of the other county fishing teams, but they are organized under the umbrella of Norway's Fiskarlag, but in an independent organisation, namely the Federation of Fishermen – and it should be lacking that the boys were not satisfied! And once again, it's the shark fishermen who have to pay with cod. I can't imagine a 35-40 foot jack going to Iceland to fish with a line or fishing weight with a note. So a little bit back to shrimps. The distribution of shrimp concessions from Norway is over. No matter how we beg our knees, we don't get shrimp concessions, because it's stopped for resource reasons. So when you make an agreement with Iceland, you ignore the limitations of shrimp fishing in the Barents Sea. It's the mildest thing to vote for if I have to say it. So the Minister of Foreign Affairs as well as the Minister of Fisheries says that this is not a common agreement, a common quota-exchange agreement. Yes, what in the name of the Lord is that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1271	There has been a certain discussion of the characteristics of this agreement. Jan Petersen stated that the agreement was bad. One thing is now that I think there might be a little bit of a foundation for such a characteristic in the common comments that the Right is included in the setting, but now it has to be. Einar Steensnæs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have in part said that the agreement is good. For my own part, I would like to express my view of how sensible it really is with the kind of characteristics of the agreement at all, and that for my part, I regard the agreement as the best possible, based on current realities and the option no agreement. The joint comment of the parties to the Agreement by the Foreign Affairs Committee also calls for the improvement of the Agreement and its development over time. It is a point that the development of the agreement can be carried out within the framework of the agreement, which is part of the quality of the agreement. Listening to some people here today might seem like you think it's the fact that it's Iceland's national day today that makes you want to make the deal, and that therefore you want to bring a gift to Iceland. I would like to make it very clear that it is not my opinion of the agreement. So I see it as the best possible, given the present realities that have had to be taken into account. I believe that there are at least three aspects we need to address. One is that the agreement has a foreign policy character, it has a resource policy character, and it relates to industrial policy. When I hear the debate here today, it may seem that the fishing industry is based on industrial policy alone. If you consider this agreement from a purely commercial policy point of view, without taking into account foreign policy and resource management qualities, I can see that the fishing industry can have the understanding of the agreement that they have, even if they have to manipulate with quota exchange to get it all the way to. But what is then forgotten is the industrial policy benefits associated with the resource management side and, in fact, also those relating to foreign policy relations and relations with Iceland. In my opinion, this is a good business policy agreement because of the quality of the other two aspects. And then we're told by Bastesen's example that cod fishing ended in January 1989, that it is precisely to ensure cod resources that this agreement is concluded. Finally, when one heard Bastisen's assessment of whether to present the proposal mentioned, it might seem as if there was division in the Bastisen group.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1291	Let me just say first that they are completely wrong about the claims made by the representative Bastesen that all the agreements we have with other countries are balanced. We have a fixed imbalance in cod in the Barents Sea of 3.5 pst. by TAC, which goes to our partners, and for which we are not compensated. It can be calculated what it represents in tonnes. It's going to be significantly more than what an agreement with Iceland would mean. As far as blacklisting is concerned, we have learned that Iceland is also in favour of blacklisting. This means that Icelandic citizens who may enter with capital in Baltic States in order to get Baltic vessels back into the Smutthole will, first, be blacklisted by Icelandic authorities and, second, they will be given landing rights. Both blacklisting and landing nectar will be included in the annual fisheries negotiations for the autumn with both the Faroe Islands, Greenland and the EU. For the time being, we have discussed this informally and received positive feedback from representatives of the authorities in those countries. As far as shrimp fishing is concerned, I would like to stress that Norway and Russia have not set up a joint administration for shrimps in the Barents Sea, and therefore Norway cannot prejudge and say that we are going to create an administrative regime for the Smutthole in an agreement with Iceland. I should like to see how the fishing industry and perhaps Steinar Bastesen would praise a joint management of the shrimp resources in the Barents Sea with Russia at the level we have of knowledge of the entire Great Barents Sea region's biology. It's a question that's been discussed many, many times, and as far as I know, even when I was a business representative, the industry is against it. We want the national government for us, so Russia regulates its compliance with what we agreed on. Finally, let me say to the representative of Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen that Mr Jan Henry T. Olsen, former Minister for Fisheries from the Workers' Party, has clearly gone public, including in the discussion of the agreement in Troms County, and said that the agreement is very good. It will be a disaster if the Stortinget and the authorities do not accept the agreement. And Jan Henry T. Olsen was the one who negotiated the first time, and who didn't think the agreement that was negotiated in 1996 was good enough, and thus made the workers' party government not agree at the time. But he has seen the difference between the agreement that was negotiated at the time and this agreement, and has given his full agreement. It should be Stortinget's notice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1305	Just a little visit to the case rapporteur, because I understand very well that he has tried to avoid characterising the agreement. I would like to insist that for the Storting both the characteristic ‘bad’, which I will insist it is, can go along with the characteristic ‘best possible’. The situation is that we have to choose between this bad agreement or no agreement at all. So we're in a situation of coercion that's very unpleasant. I believe it is important to have the agreement adopted despite its content. But the point the government parties have always avoided, the critical point, is that when we're brought into this difficult situation, it's because the government in an important foreign policy area has done a bad job. I was told why this was bad: because the foreign minister thinks the agreement is good! So then it's no wonder it turned out the way it did. That's probably one of the reasons why it's not better negotiated than it is. Had more attention been given to the close issues, more political weight in them, I think it would be possible to go beyond what the Government has now done. But when the government is satisfied, it may be the explanation that, despite the fact that we have not had a time problem, we are now getting presented with this agreement. So the size is in a situation of coercion. I fully agree with Mr. Schjøtt-Pedersen that we should adopt it, but a real job in advance would have made this much easier.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1314	Steinar Bastesen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1317	Harald Hove spoke of division in the group. He spoke well from his own experience, for the Left has also experienced a period with only one representative on the Stortinget. But I can trust Hove that I've thought about this, since it was I who had the suggestion, and I'll recommend the Hove to think about, he too. It's no shame to turn around. The Minister for Fisheries spoke of a balanced agreement and imbalance in the case of cod in the Barents Sea. As I've perceived it, and have experienced it, it's the monetary value it's talking about when you're talking about balance. That's not the number of tons. That's, how much do we get? How much do they give? It has been estimated in the Ministry of Fisheries for many years, at the time the Minister of Fisheries sat here as a representative of the Stortinget. I have heard that from the Ministry of Fisheries. And when I talk about balance, it's about the value of what you get, and the value of what you give away -- that's where I'm talking about balance, not in tons.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1324	I just wanted to take the opportunity to be a little specific in characterising the contract as best I can based on the assumptions and implications that exist. I understand that Jan Petersen could agree with me a bit on the way, if one thought that it was related to the situation that now exists for Stortinget, namely whether the Stortinget should be able to reject the agreement or not. The risk that it would be perceived as being the same as I did, means that I will make a small remark to clarify that my characteristic, that it was the best possible agreement, is related to the government's assessment and the time the government decided to sign the agreement. In other words, a significantly different time and a significantly different assessment element than that on which Jan Petersen based. So there's no agreement between Jan Petersen and me. Let me therefore be allowed to add, in order not to risk being misunderstood, that if people confront me with the two options, whether the agreement is good or bad, and force me to make a choice between them, my conclusion would undoubtedly be that the agreement is good – just so it stands firm. In terms of exchange ratios and allowance value, the situation is that there are some mechanisms for calculating such allowances, which take into account the longer-term value of the allowances. On the basis of such an assessment of allowances, the present agreement is likely to be closer to 1:2, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has indicated that the fishing boatowners assume, than at 1:10, as the Fishlayer has tried to give the impression. And then you'd better think about what the exact ratio would be. It's probably not possible to come up with a high degree of precision. Otherwise, I must say that I have registered that there must be some disagreement within the Workers' Party about this agreement. As far as I can see, at least the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen is not representative of the post he made here today. Finally, it is true that in different contexts, the Left may have had a lot of experience in being only one representative in different assemblies, and it has probably happened some time that someone has felt that the Left Group could be split. But one of the things Lars Sponheim has highlighted on several occasions is that the only advantage of having only one left-wing representative was the fact that the group could not be split.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1337	I asked for the floor to comment on what Mr Bastesen said about negotiating each year based on the value of the fish species in the market. That's not right. That is how the case-rapporteur, Mr Hove, explained. The annual fisheries negotiations are based on so-called fixed ratios for the different fish species. We are talking here about cod equivalents that we talk about in the oil industry about oil equivalents. It would have complicated all the annual negotiations considerably if the market were to be taken into account. We can just take an example of cod, where we've actually had a double of the first price in two years. In the department, we've seen it so that if we were to base today's market prices on different products, maybe some of the agreements we have would get off to a disadvantage. So we're dealing with the fact that we're taking into account the factors of the individual fish species that have been used in the negotiations over all years. We will continue until long-term trends appear to have been so diverted that it should be addressed. But even that is not a basis for negotiation that is easily changeable, because when it comes to changing such conditions, there will probably be national interests of all those involved in such negotiations, linked to it. The Ministry of Fisheries has not given priority to making changes. We think it's okay what's been decided from the past, and we'll deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1344	I just felt the need to lighten up the views of the representative Hoves. I have not heard anyone in the Labour Party who has expressed their joy at this agreement. As I said at the end of my speech, it is a relatively dramatic situation to reject an international agreement, not least because it weakens the trust in Norway's credibility in international negotiations. I have also stressed that the Workers' Party has always felt that it is important both to end the Icelandic fishing in the Smutthult and to have a conflict with a close neighbour. But it is true that the Workers' Party has put significant questions to the agreement that has been concluded, not least the Workers' Party has made it quite clear that the contractual principles that are now accepted have been rejected by the Workers' Party in the government position. We therefore ask significant questions about the agreement, but find it difficult to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1353	The President allows himself to recall that representatives have a long day’s journey – night – ahead of them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1356	I have not claimed that the Workers' Party has in any context expressed the “jubilation” of the agreement. Neither the Minister for Fisheries nor the Minister for Foreign Affairs has done so. But when you heard the first post of Schjøtt-Pedersen, it wasn't just that it wasn't “jubble” about the agreement, it was a quite different end of the different characteristics you found on. For Schjøtt-Pedersen, the reason for concluding the agreement, as far as I could understand, was the dramatic fact of not adopting a negotiated agreement. And then we're at a completely different point on such a line. If you read the joint comments from the committee, and if you heard the post of Kjell Engebretsen from the Workers' Party, I actually think we are far from the point where Schjött-Pedersen was in his post, albeit a good deal from expressing the ‘jubilation’ of the agreement. Just let me finally get to quote quite briefly from the common comments. It says: ‘This strengthens Norwegian interests and positions with regard to the management of fishing resources in the main areas and with regard to the main species of fish in which Norway is interested, which the Committee is well pleased with.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1367	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4142]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1382	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1389	There was just a debate about whether there was ‘jubilation’ in the Labour Party. At least I hope that no one had imagined that the representative of the Engebretsen would rejoice. It's a rather unlikely representation! But now we are going to move on to the situation in Kosovo. There is a setting that has a collection of committees behind it. The Socialist Left Party will go a little further, but then on the same track as the plurality of the Committee. That means that one also supports the purposes of the Government in this proposition. The most important thing in Kosovo now is to get law and order, so that society can begin to function, and so that refugees return and new refugee problems do not arise. The next is, of course, the humanitarian effort to make it viable inside Kosovo. We must also help as far as we can, those who have fled Kosovo, that is. those who are now out of the country and in Albania, Macedonia and Montenegro, and those who are inside the country and still on the run, but also the new ones who are on the run, the Serbian refugees. That's why it's important when it's what we're now seeing of engagement from the other side. The Church's emergency aid in Serbia and Montenegro, former Yugoslavia, that one can start with relief measures for these too. There is one point in the Government proposal that has not been supported, and it is the proposal to have an authority to use it as one think it might be necessary in this area in the future, that is. an authorisation without the Storting making the budgetary decisions that must be taken. The Committee believes that it is not necessary, but also that it is not desirable – that it is not necessary because one should be able to solve this in an ordinary way without creating serious problems, that it is not desirable because some of these may be controversial political both in size and in device. A few words about what this debate might be going on – we will get back to it when the government hopefully comes back with further plans for reconstruction and help to former Yugoslavia: It must be a goal in the long-term work that it is not the flag as a number, but what is being done. that it is done where it should be done and that Norway is involved in international cooperation in this area. I guess that also said the government when we had a round on this a short time ago in the Storting. The Stability Pact for South-East Europe may be the major framework for this, but it is likely to be relatively unprecise when it comes to the concrete measures, so there is a need to go further. In addition, there is an unclear boundary between humanitarian work and the longer-term repatriation and investment. Nevertheless, we should be able to say that, of course, Kosovo is the centre of future efforts. But Macedonia and Montenegro should also be central to Norway and to the international community, not least for political reasons, in order to secure democracy in these countries. Albania is also obvious in this way. The most controversial will be the effort compared to the rest of Serbia. There, of course, we also have to follow developments closely. However, if the regime of Belgrade — the Serbian regime, but also Milosevic — follows the agreements that have now been concluded, it must be an objective to bring Serbia into the international community and also to help build the country. But it has to happen in such a way that you don't just approve and put a line over what the Serbian leadership has now done. The guiding principle should be that we are trying to help with a repatriation and international cooperation with Serbia, but that a consistent isolation of the path and regime in that country. We have to come back to how this is going to happen. There is a debate in Europe on the prohibition of investment, etc. in relation to Serbia. We basically think that we should try to cooperate and also attract Serbia into the international community, but consistently isolate the regime, the leadership, those who are accused of war crimes, and have no contact with these as leaders of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1408	I want to clarify some of our assessments in relation to the device on the help to be provided. To build after a war costs, there is no doubt about it. The humanitarian situation in former Yugoslavia and Albania is such that reconstruction aid should be provided. That is why the Progress Party also supports this additional allocation. Assistance must be provided in a way that does not result in long-term dependence, assistance to build-up and not in ordinary assistance. Similarly, aid should not be used in such a way as to give rise to further suspicions and misgivings between the peoples. This does not mean that everyone should be helped independently of previous acts and disposals. At all costs, Norway must avoid Norwegian aid confirming the basis of power of a president who practices ethnic cleansing, terror and press censorship. It is therefore gratifying to get signals from Serbia that the Serbian people can now be willing to clean up their own house. Serbian opposition parties demand, in an appeal, that President Slobodan Milosevic resign. In the past, the Orthodox Church has demanded the same thing. The Church justifies its view of the tragic situation of the people. It is important that we now see these initiatives supported. The Progress Party will therefore not open up support for Serbia as long as Milosevic and his regime rule. It is true as long as there is no clear and comprehensive famine. The question will, of course, be different if the Serbian population acknowledges the regime's actions and takes steps to change the regime. But we must not now, as there is an dawning positive movement in Serbia, contribute to strengthening the power base of the war criminal accused President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1419	It is a broad majority in the United Kingdom that is making decisions today on humanitarian aid in the context of the Kosovo crisis. This was also the case in the previous debate on the same subject, but it was in completely different circumstances. Then there was a war in Yugoslavia. The continuing and international pressure has brought results to the regime in Yugoslavia. At least this time, we can enjoy the agreement between NATO and Yugoslavia. But the Kosovo crisis has led to great humanitarian suffering, which means that it is more than enough to deal with for many people and for international organisations. The approx. 800,000 refugees who are outside the borders of Kosovo still need help, and in order for them to return home, there is a need for reconstruction in a number of areas. The internally displaced refugees in the region also urgently need assistance. The UNHCR will coordinate this humanitarian work. Now that the process of ensuring peace is underway, a safe return for the refugees and the deployment and organisation of civil presence are the most immediate challenges. Norway will contribute a total of 575 million. kr in humanitarian aid when we bring the 350 million. kr which is currently subject to treatment. It is from the Government that previously announced that it would come back to any changes in the level of appropriations after having reviewed the need. The need for future assistance as refugees return has not yet been fully clarified, as more systematic monitoring is needed. But we have a clearer picture of the need in both Albania and Macedonia, where it is now possible to start, and the Government will therefore have to come back to the Stortinget on a later occasion with a comprehensive plan for Norwegian participation in the reconstruction of the region, both democratically and economically. The whole region must be seen together. A Stability Pact for South-East Europe and a Security Council resolution, a peace plan, have recently been adopted. The aim is to promote respect for human rights and economic growth. The Christian People's Party supports the work done in this context, and emphasises what the Prime Minister said on 10 June here, that we should assist both the Albanians, Serbs and the other groups in the Balkans on the difficult path towards lasting stability and reconciliation. Norway will also focus on cooperating with our allies and contributing militarily to the security of peace. Voluntary organisations and international organisations play an important role in the humanitarian work in Kosovo. The 225 million. Previous allocations have mainly been channelled through the UN and Norwegian non-governmental organisations, which are making considerable efforts. Together with the international community, we need to find a common understanding and a starting point for defining what humanitarian aid is, and what is investment in and reconstruction of the country. The Christian People's Party is pleased that there is broad support for the Government's work on the Norwegian effort in Kosovo. I assume that the Government is still following up and looking at the potential for a positive development in the region. It is today too early to say exactly how much this will cost, it requires debates in different forums further on. We now see it inappropriate to quantify this, as SV does in its proposal, but will come back to this when the conditions in the region have been further assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1436	Although this is a very important and important question, I would think that this debate can still go relatively quickly, simply because the Stortinget has just discussed the issue we are now facing. After the Prime Minister's presentation not long ago, a good deal of views were expressed on the future reconstruction work, which will, of course, continue in this debate as well. However, I would like to clarify a few main points. One is that I am pleased that there is now a broad consensus that the Government, certainly with the very best intentions, will not be released in the way that the Government itself wanted, with a power as open as a barn door. It cannot be seen in any other way than that, of course, the Storting wants to carry out the role it has under the Constitution as an accrediting authority, and at the same time that, of course, the very arrangement for reconstruction and, in so far as humanitarian aid is concerned, should be designed in close dialogue with the Stortinget. We're facing some difficult dilemmas that I think it's important to think carefully and thoroughly through. The most difficult dilemma is, in fact, the way in which assistance to Serbia is to take place, not least as long as the country is led by a war criminal-accompanied president, who nevertheless has some form of democratic legitimacy by having come to power through free elections. This creates difficulties because from a democratic point of view, a number of questions can be asked about the way in which he carries out his duties. What I think must be important is that, on the one hand, we provide the emergency aid and the refugee aid needed, regardless of who is in the Balkans who will benefit from it. It also has a further political purpose in addition to humanitarian, namely to show Serbs that there is a world out there that wants to welcome them. We have nothing left for the Serbian people to shut themselves in and view everyone else as their enemies. It is important to break through that image, and an emergency aid could contribute in this way. Secondly, it is important to support, on the other hand, the forces that may be opposed in the right direction to the existing regime. But it's clear that the way the country is run, it's borders. I have noticed, however, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs believes that it will take another while to get closer to what can be called a normal reconstruction phase, and I think that is certainly right. That means that we will have time to think carefully through the issues that I have now mentioned. I think it is important to ensure that the core of assistance goes to Kosovo, but that you remember – and remember in practical terms – Montenegro and Macedonia, and also countries outside this circle. Among other things, it is important, as I mentioned last time, that it be cleaned up in the Danube, so that Bulgaria and Romania get the economic link with Western Europe, the possibility of being able to export in practice, which is in this waterway. When the matter comes to Stortinget, I think it is important that we have in the back of our minds the lessons we have learned from assistance activities for a long time. It's not like the reconstruction after World War II, that it's possible to go into quite advanced structures, where it's about rebuilding well-established industrial nations. We are talking about the part of Europe that was already initially at a very low and modest level. This means bringing economic prosperity to such areas, if you don't start at a foreign level, then at least in the vicinity of it. And here are some lessons that need to be drawn, including: the entry of the major Western organisations must not take over either Kosovo or other parts of the Balkans almost on an enterprise basis, but that the reconstruction must be carried out together with the civil structures. In this context, the work of the OSCE is to be done, particularly important, and it is good to know that Norway has the leadership of that organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1451	It is a broad political support for the Government's proposal to grant an additional 350 million. humanitarian aid in connection with the Kosovo crisis. And as all parties in the Grand Duchy support further appropriations for Kosovo, the total aid will reach 575 million. I see little reason to spend a lot of time repeating the statements of support that have already come from the previous speakers. No batches have indicated in the cut-off that the proposed allocations will be sufficient, on the contrary. The majority say that there will be further appropriations. Against that background, it may seem unnecessary that the SV in a separate note finds reason to clarify the same as the majority has also said, namely that there will be a need for further appropriations, and the Government has announced that it will later return to the Stortinget with proposals to do so. I guess it's also a little surprising that someone finds reason to suggest a concrete amount, which is quantified at another 650 million. kr. In the Central Party, we would like to make it clear that we are of course prepared to contribute increased funds both for humanitarian aid and for reconstruction in Kosovo and in the rest of Yugoslavia. But we take note of what the Government says in the proposition, namely that ‘a reasonable and reasonable planning horizon beyond the next few months is not possible’. Let's take note of that. We expect the government to return to Stortinget with this matter. The party supports the government's arrangements and will recommend that the majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1460	SV is pleased with the willingness of both the Government and the majority of the population to grant more to resolve the unfathomable humanitarian tragedies that have arisen in the wake of the war in Kosovo. Nevertheless, when we propose an increased allocation, it is because the authority we had originally proposed, and I understand that the Government responds in its proposal for a mandate, for various reasons, was not accepted by the bulk of the population. We have experience from a number of other warriors and conflicts that it really takes the most money, it gets the least money. Bosnia is a very good example of it, where it has always been so that the funds for military efforts have far exceeded the funds for humanitarian and civil purposes. If we look at Norway's allocations to Kosovo, the situation is that the war is terrible animals, the reception of refugees in Norway is even more expensive, while the amount allocated to the humanitarian effort remains the lowest. If you look at other nations, of course, this imbalance is dramatically much greater. The reason why SV is proposing an increased amount now is that we want to show this clear dilemma that it is so much easier to get money to wage war, to put in peacekeeping and peace-building forces and even to accept refugees in Norway. This is no criticism, because on the contrary, it was absolutely necessary and right both to wage this war and also to accept refugees in Norway when Macedonia came into the situation there. But it is always much more difficult to get money for the necessary reconstruction and not least for the measures that could prevent and prevent war and conflict in advance. We want to point this out through our proposal, and we also believe that if the Storting went out with a much clearer signal about Norway's willingness to grant amounts as monks, it would be easier to get such amounts from other countries, assuming that Norway alone cannot solve the humanitarian problems in Kosovo, but that a large contribution from the Storing can make it easier to get money from the EU, from the United States, which seems to have little willingness to pay for this, and from elsewhere. Then I warn against excessive optimism as to how quickly it will be possible to get the refugees home. Very many, especially popular opinion, have a kind of notion that when the war is over, the refugees on a large scale will be able to return almost immediately. It is a dangerous notion that can lead to disappointments and misunderstandings in the future. This will take a long time. It will cost a lot of money, and it is positive and good that the Government and the majority show the willingness to understand it and hopefully will return with increased appropriations, either during an extraordinary meeting during the summer holidays or during the budgetary procedure for the autumn. Furthermore, I share the view that more people have had that it is obvious that the damage in Kosovo is the greatest. Of course, there is a difference in a place where the damage to the war is caused by the fact that militias and gangs have gone from house to house, blasted these houses or lit them, and a place where the damage has been caused by bombing, even if a good deal of mistakes were made during the bombing. We have one single experience in the last decades from the Balkans, and that is that if we solve the conflicts then say one by one, try to enter Bosnia first, then Kosovo and before that again in Slavonia, Krajina, Croatia, etc., we will not get anywhere. It's all going to have to be solved in a context. That is why there is now a need for a reconstruction plan for the whole of the Balkans, not just for Kosovo, but of course with Kosovo in focus. Serbia must not be isolated. I think there's much greater reason to believe that the Serbian population will get rid of Milosevic if the west now acts towards them with the sun and heat over with the wind and the cold. I also warn against what Jan Petersen was into. He spoke as if Milosevic has won free elections in Serbia. There has been no free choice in Serbia in any real sense. It is not free choice in a country where the government controls radio and television and uses them every second in its propaganda. Actually, people have put ballots in the urns, and they've been spoken up correctly, but it's not the same as free elections. No one has recognised the elections in Serbia as completely free, and neither should we. Milosevic in his new position is not even chosen either. Finally, I would like to say that the most dangerous thing now is that we are just concentrating on Kosovo. We must not forget that there are more internally displaced people in Angola than there are refugees from Kosovo. There is far more killed in the war between Eritrea and Ethiopia than it is in the last war in the Balkans. Only in a tiny country like the Congo/Brazzaville alone is it probably more internally displaced than it is in Kosovo. We must not now just focus on Kosovo and forget all these other conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1477	Fortunately, we are in the situation that, in relation to the Kosovo conflict, we have come much further than at the time of the presentation of the proposition. At that time there was still war. The perspective is therefore different when we now deal with the matter, than it was when the proposition was presented. What we now need to focus on is emergency aid and humanitarian aid and then a transition to what will be reconstruction in the area. It is, of course, difficult, not least for the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee to draw up clear boundaries between humanitarian aid and reconstruction on several occasions. In some questions, it might be a small point not to be too clever about what is defined as humanitarian aid. In the case of emergency aid and humanitarian aid, it must be quite obvious that it should in principle be able to go to everyone, and that also means in clear text to Serbia. The reconstruction issue will be longer in time, and compared to that one will have some better time. But it's very central and important, as most people have basically stressed, that Serbia is not excluded in this context either. Addressing the issue of Milosevic and the type of action that will have one or another impact in that relationship will be more important in terms of reconstruction than in relation to humanitarian aid. First of all, Kosovo must be focused, but at the same time, Macedonia, Albania and Montenegro must also be promoted as very important, and so also Serbia. As for the refugees going home, I agree with what Erik Solheim said, and I want to say something I have tried to say a few times before. On the one hand, we have to be impatient, but at the same time, we have to be patient. We have to be very clear that this will take time, and that some of the most important thing will still be to maintain a pressure on these questions when we come to November and December of this year, out next year and in the years after that, for this whole question we will have to deal with for many years to come. Finally, regarding the comments from Erik Solheim and SV's proposal, I note that the comments were included in order to justify a proposal that we have chosen not to go into. That is why we have not addressed the question of fine-tuning the relationship with the comments made there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1492	Fortunately, as the representative Hove was in the Chamber, a number of things have happened in the Balkans since St.prp. No 88 for 1998-99 was presented to the Grand Duchy on 4 June this year. A peace agreement has been reached and peacekeeping forces are on their way into Kosovo. The aim is for all Serbian forces to be out of the province by 21 June. The humanitarian situation inside Kosovo is very inconclusive. There has so far been little contact with internally displaced persons, but small groups are reported to now descend from the mountains where they have been hidden during the conflict. These should be both starved and perishable. At the time of the conclusion of a peace agreement, it has been possible to send in trucks with emergency assistance, and already on 13 June 52 cars arrived. In addition, both the International Red Cross Committee and the U.S.A.A.ID continue with emergency air escape. Norwegian non-governmental organisations are already on their way back into Kosovo to re-establish themselves. From Macedonia, large groups of refugees fleeing the refugee camps and flooding into the province have also been reported. During this period, UN Vice-Secretary-General de Mello has been in Pristina and reports on a very worrying situation both humanitarian and security. The UNHCR is in the process of being established and expects to establish seven offices in different locations in Kosovo. The UNHCR is now also expressing great concern for the Serbs in Kosovo. Their safety is as important as that of others, and they may also need emergency assistance. Granting them support could help prevent a new large flow of refugees from Kosovo. I welcome the broad support and consensus expressed in the debate today on humanitarian aid to the Serbs, whether they are in Kosovo or in Serbia. The humanitarian situation of the refugees in Albania and Macedonia is under control, but the tension is increasing in the camps in Macedonia as the refugees see the possibility of returning home. In border stations both in Albania and Macedonia, there shall be growing cows of refugees entering Kosovo. This is a situation we've feared, and as the UNHCR is trying to prevent. The international community is working to organise the reconstruction work in Kosovo. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has submitted a provisional plan for civil presence. The plan goes, among other things: The UN shall be responsible for the civil administration and the UNHCR for the humanitarian work. The OSCE shall take care of the institution building and the physical reconstruction of the EU. The first Norwegian reconstruction appropriation of 225 million. have been mainly paid out, partly to the UN, partly as budget support via the World Bank and partly via Norwegian non-governmental organisations. This is a model government wants to continue for the new 350 million. kr that you have asked for. Budget support for Albania, Macedonia and Montenegro will continue to be priority actions by the Government, despite the fact that some of the refugees are now beginning to return home. However, the heavy burden imposed on these countries by accepting refugees has been long-term and the risk of destabilization is still present. However, the major work will take some time before they get started, and the government will then have to come back to the Storting for new appropriations. We're going to try to avoid asking for the Storting to be grouped during the summer holidays. I do not disagree with Mr Solheim's remarks in the committee position. However, it is currently difficult to estimate the exact amount of resources that the Government will need on the basis of an overall assessment of the overall needs. That is why the Government currently maintains the request of 350 million. kr and will have to be allowed to return to Stortinget when there is a greater clarity in the need for assistance to Kosovo and in so far also to the region as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1518	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4142]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1532	The President expects that she can also limit this debate to one post from each party, within a maximum of 5 minutes – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1535	Yes, I feel the jittery expectation of a long debate on this issue as well. I took the word just to clarify a typographical error, which I should have discovered and clarified earlier. It concerns page 2 of the Opinion, under the comments of the Committee, which reads in the third line ‘Delivery’ – that is the fourth word. The correct word which shall be the «delivery law», so that it does not mean that the delivery receives the necessary adjustment, but that the extradition law receives the necessary adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1544	The President has noticed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4143]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1558	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4143]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1572	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Twist Party elected five minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to 5 lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1583	This year, too, Stortinget deals with a negotiated agricultural agreement between the State, Norway's Bondelag and Norwegian Bonde and Small Farmers' Associations. The Committee's position is based on respect for the negotiating institute, although the majority in several areas have critical comments on the outcome of the year's negotiations. The majority, on this basis, fully adhere to the economic structure of the contract. On one point, however, the majority found it necessary to oppose the outcome of the negotiations. This will be justified in other articles later in the debate. I assume that the minority itself will present their views, and therefore, in this article, I will concentrate mainly on the Workers' Party's assessments. The agreement provides for a full increase of EUR 540 million in budgetary aid. kr. This is in addition to the increase in 1998, which was NOK 675 million. In two years' time, budget support for Norwegian agriculture has increased by over DKK 1.2 billion. For the treatment of St.prp. No 8 for 1992-93 la Stortinget e.g. the underlying objective of an agricultural policy which contributes to more competitive raw materials, lower food prices and lower business transfers. The increase in budget support currently taking place is not in line with this objective. Measured in fixed 1998 crowns, the last two settlements mean that for the first time in the 1990s government transfers to agriculture are increasing. The most serious thing about this is perhaps seen in the light of the forthcoming WTO negotiations. This year's agreement means that aid is increasing in both yellow and blue boxes. The Government has the agreement of the Workers' Party in relation to the negotiating strategy chosen in the WTO context. Nevertheless, there is reason to stress that we are facing tough rounds of negotiations. And I find every reason to recall one of the conclusions of the Minister for Foreign Affairs' WTO statement, on which we had a debate earlier today. In its statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said about the WTO agricultural agreement: «The parties must nevertheless be expected to have to go beyond the existing obligations». In this way, the government is now going in the wrong direction. The significant growth of budget support in the last two years creates a situation in which Norwegian agriculture is increasingly at risk of having to undergo rapid and difficult conversion after the next WTO round. In this area, too, the Government is pursuing a policy based on short-term motives. Furthermore, the agreement increases target prices by 330 million. kr. In a purely national context, this is not a major increase, and on important commodity groups such as cattle, pigs, eggs and Norwegian food meal there is no increase in the target prices at all. Nevertheless, it is clear that we are also facing major challenges in this area. The trade leak to our neighbouring countries had an explosive increase in 1998, and was then record high. Developments in 1999 suggest a very large trade leakage this year. An important reason for this leakage is lower food prices in our neighbouring country. Of course, I am aware that this concerns issues that are very complex. A recent study concludes, inter alia: that the average price difference in Norwegian and Swedish food is 12-13 pst. Farm organisations have thus pointed out that this is about the difference between Norwegian and Swedish food tax. However, the survey in question showed that the price difference for milk products and meat products was greater than the average. And that's the main problem. Nordics do not make their daily purchases in Sweden. They buy meat, and they buy cheese. This reinforces overproduction problems in Norwegian agriculture. From Norway’s Bondelag, the Enterprise Committee has been provided with an overview of price developments in Norwegian-produced foods, in relation to the development of the overall food index. This shows that the index of Norwegian food produced is lower than the food index total. At the same time, the index shows that the prices of Norwegian food products are now increasing again. From 1990 to 1997, prices fell on Norwegian meat. After that, the index shows that prices are rising again. The main point, in the view of the Labour Party, is that Norwegian agricultural policy cannot be based on the fact that Norwegian food prices can be at a completely different level than prices in our neighbouring country and in the EU. Through its Agenda 2000, the EU has now set out a plan for a reduction in its commodity prices of between 15 and 20 pst. If we do not meet Agenda 2000 with active measures, the difference in Norwegian commodity prices and corresponding EU prices will increase considerably over the next five years. This is a huge challenge for Norwegian agriculture. If the EU succeeds in its Agenda 2000, Norwegian agriculture will lose competitiveness every year, even with the stabilisation of our food prices. It can in turn lead to increased border trade and increased imports, and the one that will lose in the long run that we do nothing is the farmer himself. Nor can Norwegian agriculture add to a strategy where we are only concerned about price. Our agriculture has no opportunity to compete on equal terms with EU agriculture. Not least climatic conditions warrant it. Therefore, we must build on the strong preference of Norwegian consumers in relation to Norwegian food. The Norwegians know that when they buy Norwegian food, they buy safe and clean food. These are they and will be willing to pay a good price for. However, the point is that this does not mean that Norwegian food does not have to take price into account at all. It shows us the increase in border trade. Norwegian consumers also have confidence in Swedish and Danish food. So when we in the Spring Summit are going to design a new agricultural policy, we are facing formidable challenges. International and trade policy conditions will very much pave the way for national agricultural policy. At the same time, we see a trend in Norwegian agriculture where there are often major uses that give up today. Milk consumption with quotas of between 80 000 – 100000 litres of milk sells its quota and ends on farm. This is justified by the fact that work on the farm takes so much time that there is no time left to compensate for the decline in agricultural income through work outside the farm. This gives cause for concern, not least because this tells us something about how Norwegian agriculture will in future be able to recruit young people with a vocational education oriented towards work in agriculture. The Labour Party believes that in agricultural policy we need to give sufficient priority to the development of incomes for those living in agriculture. It also adds a certain amount to the year's settlement. The sum of the challenges can be summarised as follows: Norwegian food prices need to be reduced. The WTO agreement gives us a clear indication of how the transfers will develop. They will have to be reduced. We will give priority to wage development for those who live on agriculture. But this will happen within a framework where we will continue to invest in rural agriculture. And we're going to continue to bet on a farm in Norway with a varied use structure, a small-scale agriculture where industrial agriculture is rejected as a mode of use. Many would rightly be able to claim that it is impossible to achieve all these objectives in a comprehensive national agricultural policy. The Labour Party agrees that this will be difficult, but it is clear that these objectives will be met when we start work on the agricultural policy message to be addressed by the Stortinge to spring. I would therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1630	As a party representative, I had hoped that this year's agricultural settlement would give the necessary signals on the conversion and efficiency of Norwegian waste management, but I was wrong. The agricultural settlement passes through the Storting without requiring policy to be transformed in a comprehensive, reliable and powerful way. The negotiated agreement between the organisations and the state has an income effect for the farmers of NOK 1,1 billion, and total transfers of approx. NOK 12.5 billion goes to healthy workers in addition to the protection support. Enormous transfers flow to operators within a single industry, a high percentage of which are part-time or hobby farmers. What other industries or industries can regulate themselves to DKK 12.5 billion in subsidies every year? Which other industries can receive large subsidies each year, while effectively blocking, through their organisations and political partners – with a few exceptions – the import of competing agricultural products that would lead to better food supply for Norwegian consumers? Yeah, I'm just asking. How is it possible to create a system where the quality of the product is limited because consumers have no alternative but have to thank standard products? In addition, consumers are required to pay for a state-of-the-art agricultural bureaucracy that makes the final products so expensive that Norwegian consumers often cannot afford to buy the products, so that they have to be dumped on the world market at ridiculously low prices. We note that the agricultural agreement is a very comprehensive and unbridled business agreement, an enormously complicated deal with great red tape connected to unbridled conditions, where only a few people have the full overview when important questions are decided. And in the next round, it means the detailed management of the Norwegian farmer who is basked and tied on the hands and feet of grant and regulation schemes. The number of grant schemes currently in excess of 100 is increasing for each year and each grant scheme has detailed legislation. A large bureaucracy related to the Ministry of Agriculture, Municipalities and Municipalities is needed to manage this whole apparatus. Thousands of public servants raise wages and salaries to keep track of all payments, applications and checks. The need for conversion is quite obvious. One of the objectives must be to get most bureaucrats into productive work. The results of the agricultural negotiations mean that taxpayers have to spend significantly higher amounts above the tax base than before, in addition to increasing food prices. It means new doses of yesterday's policy. No parties other than the Progress Party are willing to meet the challenges of conversion and restructuring. The political majority find it most convenient to let things go largely as before, and to support the agreement reached. Once it's become a common and accepted way of operating agricultural policy, results over time will be negative as a whole, and that's the situation we're up to now. It is quite clear that neither the Minister of Agriculture Mr Gjønne nor the other parties want to implement and press agriculture for all the necessary measures. It seems that the existing agricultural policy should be pursued at any price. In that case, it is a short-term medicine when we know that central agricultural products will be subjected to severe price pressure in the coming years. The need for structural changes in the agricultural industry is imminent and cannot be resolved with stronger support from the government budget or at increased food prices. Higher incomes in agriculture must come as a result of increased competition and more efficient farming. It might be tempting to ask: How many negative records will be set in Norwegian agriculture before the Minister of Agriculture starts to see the light? And when will the Labour Party's agricultural policy spokesman, who talks so much about lower prices, come up with some concrete proposals on how to achieve this? This provision does not include a single such proposal for measures which may result in increased competition and lower food prices. And as he himself stressed, it's urgent to do something about it. Let me take a few examples: the border trade leakage to Sweden will reach a new peak in the current year. According to an OECD report, Norway is on top, just passed by Switzerland, by charging Norwegian taxpayers more than DKK 20 billion to agriculture. This is equal to NOK 250000 per year. peasant. Due to the huge subsidies injected into Norwegian agriculture, overproduction has been developed for almost all traditional agricultural products. Then we'll set the record number. 3 this year. More than 9000 tonnes of Norwegian pigmeat and beef will be dumped on the world market. To take the border trade leak first: we have more than 1 million Norwegians who have less than 1 hour's journey by car to Swedish shops, and many of them are electives to our neighbouring country in the east to trade pigs-cheap and maintain the impression that the Swedish border has evolved into a single long trading desk. The laws, regulations and charges of the other batches involved cannot prevent this. Ola and Kari Nordmann are tired of paying Europe's highest food prices, and protest against the Government's agricultural policy by electing Sweden. And we have the results. According to forecasts, this year the Nordics will act for DKK 7.5 billion in Sweden, and approx. 40 pst. of which these are food products. Meat and meat products have become cheaper in Sweden in the last year, points out the Swedish Statistical Centre. The prices of pork have been reduced by 12 p.m., and the Swedish farmer receives less than 10 kroner and keeps up with the consumption. The negotiated agreement will mean that Norwegian food will be 1 pst. more expensive. In isolation it may seem small, but on the basis that meat, cheese, butter and cereals become 10-20 pst. cheaper in our neighbouring countries in the coming years due to the EU's agricultural reform, Norwegian food already on the world stage is becoming even more expensive. In addition, we face the challenges of the WTO and Swedish charging policy. Everything suggests that it is becoming increasingly attractive and profitable to take the trip over the refrigerator. Still new groups are likely to change their pattern of action. What the Progress Party wants is to force more competition in Norwegian agriculture, because the continuation of today's model will be a deadline for many farmers. It should not be thought that central agricultural products will escape a severe price pressure in the coming years, because import protection will be weakened, dumping exports will have to be reduced gradually, and Swedish trade will increase. It is high time that the self-employed in the food production industry were given opportunities and revenues as a result of increased competition and more efficient use. The Progress Party believes that industrious farmers must be given more leeway for their own development, through, among other things. to remove the concessional limit for the acquisition of livestock, to abolish all production restrictions, to liquidate restrictions on the sale of land and forest property, to abolish the State’s pre-purchase right for agricultural property, to abolish the requirement to live and operate, and much, much more. Today, in fact, a farmer gets criminalized if he produces large, efficient and cheap. That's idiotic. It follows that we want to abolish the system of commercial agreements, whether in the case of an agricultural agreement, a fisheries agreement or a reindeer management agreement. We're against giving entire professional groups with their own activities income guarantees for a whole year to come. We are talking about self-employed people who should be treated in the same way as other industries and businesses. Central negotiations on pay and conditions with the state are a living from another era. The process focuses on an inefficient structure and leads to large overinvestments. It's clearly documented. The Progress Party will replace yesterday's solutions with an agricultural policy based on market economy principles that stimulate efficient production. We will facilitate national and profitable quality production, based on our climatic constraints, but also on the strength of production in one of the world's cleanest environments. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to pursue sound economic policies through infrastructure deployment and the removal of obstructive laws, regulations and administrative provisions. If transfers are reduced in line with the level of regulation that prevents agriculture from being rational and efficient, the necessary growth power will be triggered. I would like to address the proposals from the Progress Party, which are referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1666	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1669	The agricultural settlement this year was negotiated between the country and both agricultural organisations. Both organisations were involved in the negotiations. This indicates that we are handling a solid agreement today. The food scandal in Belgium and the case of cow disease in southern France and the Netherlands have once again shown us the importance of food security. As a national Parliament, we have a monthly responsibility to ensure good and safe food for our citizens from a functioning agriculture. The Christian People's Party sees it as important that active users, whether full-time or part-time farming, be given the means by which the agricultural agreement is reviewed. If agriculture is to be attractive to young people today, it must be possible to obtain a reasonable income through acceptable labour input. During the management of this agreement within the Committee, there is a great deal of food price for consumers. It is said that in our EU neighbourhood, it is pointing Agenda 2000 at even lower prices, both on raw materials from agriculture and on the final product to consumers. In this context, it is interesting to note that the Danish food minister Henrik Dam Kristensen recently told the newspaper Politiken that we must use 10 pst. more of our food revenues if we are to ensure the quality of food in the future. Later, the same minister said in the same newspaper that he thought it was time for us to get a more honest price on our product. It's supposed to reflect what it really costs to produce them. This is what a Danish government council says, in one of Europe's most spacious countries, to produce food. In Norway we use approx. 13 pst. of the wages and salaries to purchase food for. So the government council in charge in the EU country Denmark believes that those who expect to have to use 10 pst. more to ensure safe access to food for the population in the future. In the journal Norwegian Agriculture No. 10/99 is an article that shows the price formation of pork. In this case, the sale price in the cooperative is 149,- kr per. kg on bacon with a vow. The payment price to the farmer was 24,12 kroner per year. kilograms, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, In other words, this was the top classification. We see here a prissauke of 745 pst. from the pig leaves the bed until the bottled piece is laid out for sale in the S-layer. Here it is documented that we live in a high-cost country. Of course, there are several operations carried out in this calculation example, but attacking the farmer for this price to the consumer is like fixing the baker for the smith. The fact that the price, good for pork, is currently record low both in Sweden and Denmark, has quite special reasons. It comes from the epidemic of jealousy that occurred in the United Kingdom. Thus, there was an acute shortage of meat that could be sold, and only Denmark and later Sweden saw their great chance of filling this vacuum with pork. As the situation has normalized in England, the bet on pigs in our two neighbouring countries has led to a formidable overproduction, and a drive today under self-sufficiency both in Denmark and Sweden. Of course, this cannot continue like this, and it must be so. in the light of this, the Danish Minister shall state his opinion. The majority – the Labour Party and the Centre Party – agree with the Government that an attempt must be made to control over the overproduction of milk and the withdrawal of the quota buying-in scheme this year. This seems to be necessary. A relationship has received a lot of attention, i.e. a multiple intervenes in parts of a negotiated agreement. The natural question in this way is whether this is a new strategy. Finally. All batches other than the Advance Party state in a joint note that there is a need for adequate income development in agriculture. According to the Christian People's Party's view, this government gives room for action in the work on the agricultural message to the autumn. Otherwise, I'll get the representatives from the center part to vote for the setting, minus V for the co-operation in milk production.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1701	Agriculture has a natural and central task of producing collective goods, such as food security, cultural landscapes and to some extent district housing. In my view, agricultural policy instruments need to be increasingly seen in the context of this objective. Government transfers to agriculture must therefore be directed at the good society that it wants to produce. In order to achieve the objectives of food preparedness, cultural landscapes and to some extent housing, the Right wants the aid to be concentrated on the following types of instruments: area aid, livestock aid, annual farm subsidies, district grants and freight subsidies. In order for the agricultural industry to meet all the requirements that we set out, it is necessary to allow operators to adapt to what is serving the individual in their quest to achieve the partly contradictory objectives that we politicians are drawing up. That's why I'm worried that the big farmers' organizations are actually on a collision course with many of them, for example. the dairy farmers in a context which is important to them, namely in the case of co-farming. The fact that the Minister of Agriculture has given in to the pressure of the organisations and through the agreement also blocked, for example, co-operation in milk production is a little incomprehensible to me. This has been made out of horrors that it could result in what is called an industrial agriculture. At my discretion, only this point in isolation sets the entire organisation's right to an agreement in a slightly doubtful light. I'm simply in doubt about the scheme we have set up is something we're served on in the future. I think the time has come to assess whether we are still going to have the system we have, where the government comes up with a negotiated agreement to the Stortinget, which we are going to feel obliged to end in detail about. We never get a real discussion about agricultural policy. At my discretion, in the context of the agricultural notification, we should consider whether to take this into account in the annual budgets. In the position we are dealing with today, the Right is called upon to sign the agreement on a number of points. What is the Right objective is that more of the transfers we must have, after all, go to those who have agriculture as their livelihood. I just think that the time is running from a situation where citizens over the tax bill are going to be charged with expenses so that some people think that besides having another, full job, it is nice to have some animals around the house. There is no doubt that not insignificant amounts of the billions we transfer to agriculture are just going to people who have marginal incomes from agriculture. A turn in such a direction as the Right addresses could make the use of the main agricultural incomes more economically robust. I also believe that such a development could contribute to ensuring the recruitment of agriculture. A further structural change will be absolutely necessary. As I read the setting, it gives a perspective that, in my opinion, gives the opportunity to go in that direction, that will force itself forward anyway. The fact that the government parties are not willing to realize that one cannot leave everything as it once was is not more than expected. In the setting, the Workers' Party and the Right go in to stop the proposal to restrict the farmers' right to set up co-operation in milk production on a free basis. For me, it is totally incomprehensible that government parties should place restrictions on the right of free peasants to join forces on operations in order to better exploit their investments. The fact that such a question has been raised by the organisations in the negotiations is one thing, but the government has accepted that a very important agricultural policy issue should be resolved without prior treatment in the Stortinget, could not have been expected to pass. It is therefore most natural that Stortinget intervenes. I see, however, that some people have fallen very hard on the chest that the bulk of the population has seen the need to do this. I see in the Nations yesterday that the chairman of the committee, Morten Lund – from the Central Party – characterises the Workers' Party and the Right's handling of this issue of co-operation as ‘slope and disloyalty’. What was supposed to be the problem for Mr. Lund, we're setting aside parts of a negotiated agreement. In fact, it has been no longer than 18 June 1997, approx. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 23.28, during the discussion of that year's agricultural agreement, that the Centre Party, SV and RV made a common front against the agreement. It actually follows from the vote transcript of the matter in question that, Mr. Morten Lund was there. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right, believe that the developments we are now experiencing in overall transfers are not in line with the guidelines drawn up in St. prp. No 8 for 1992-93, which joined the Stortinget. They are based on a common observation that business transfers cannot be expected to increase. The same majority also points to the fact that Norwegian agriculture in the long term cannot rely on Norway as the only country with an increase in food prices in a Europe characterised by the opposite. So we are now entering a period when the distance between Norwegian food prices and other European countries' food prices will increase. This will happen if we do not have a strategy to meet the EU Agenda 2000. It appears from the submission that the majority will not accept a situation where food prices will increase in such a way as they have done in recent years. These are the formulations that I think the government is wise to read carefully and to base the agricultural message that is being prepared. For almost all parties, there will be an advantage if the notified notification has a realistic situation description of those areas. It will also be a great advantage for Stortinget to have a common starting point when discussing how to meet the challenges you face, whether a chooser would want to see them, or a chooser would not want to see them. Another point mentioned in the setting is that relating to the price equalisation system. The majority has stated on several occasions that we want competition in the dairy sector. The system is such that market regulation tasks have been added to Tine Norske Meierieri, which should neither serve nor lose. What we've come across is that the charge that's set is unreasonable compared to what has to be assumed to be the real number. The Committee agrees with what is stated in the proposal that a working group, a joint committee, should be set up to look at this. The Committee gave that group – and the Government – a deadline of 1 October. Then there must be a number on the table which, at least to a greater extent, must be considered to be more objective and more agreed. There is a point in the proposition that is not mentioned in the vote and that relates to the representation on the board of SND – both centrally and in so far also regionally – and the question of who is going to meet there. Now it is the case that the State negotiates with the Norwegian Farmers' Association and the Farmers' and Small Farmers' Team in this case, and they have then come to the conclusion that they will divide the seats in these boards between themselves. It is then assumed that Norway’s Forest Geyser Federation, which has participated, will leave. Given the balance of the whole, and the legitimacy of what is going to happen in the SND regimes around the counties, I think we would be better off making a review of just having to kick out the Norwegian Forest Federation. I would therefore draw the attention of the Council of State to that very point. I also mentioned the suggestions from the Right that are included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-17.ana.ud1424e1731	Ansgar Gabrielsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The scheduled time for the morning meeting is now at hand. The meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
