ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e54	From the Norwegian Group of the Interparliamentary Union to the 101nd. The Interparliamentary Conference in Brussels is an application, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt. The application concerns a period of leave from 12 April to 15 April for the representatives of John I. Alvheim, Karin Andersen, Ola D. Glötvold, Ellen Gjerpe Hansen, Britt Hildeng, Tomas Norvoll, Kari Økland and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Hedmark County: Ida Marie Løvlien and Helge BjørnsenFor Nordland County: Oddbjørn Hanssen and Bjørn OlsenFor Oslo: Anders HornslienFor Rogaland County: Helga RullestadFor Telemark County: Thorleif VikreFor Vestfold County: Hans-Martin Jørgensen3. Ida Marie Løvlien is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Ola D. Glötvold.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e124	Before dealing with the issues on today's map, the President will propose that the morning's meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e136	The President shall ask for a proposal to be re-elected as an alternate to the Electoral Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e139	I'm making suggestions about Jørgen Holte.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e144	Jørgen Holte has been proposed as a new alternate of the Election Committee instead of Odd Roger Enoksen, who has joined the Government. Other proposals are not available. The proposal from Unn Aarrestad is being put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e163	At a time when local democracy is arduous, national governments should be extra careful to respond to local priorities, on the contrary, it is now an important task to stimulate efforts and to strengthen people's motives for political engagement. In addition, the practice of national objectives needs to take account of the lack of information in the municipality of Norway, which is known to be the problems and challenges across the country. Look at such a background, there were reactions when the Ministry of the Environment intervened against the municipal plan for Hereiane pucks in the municipality of Jondal. And the current Document No. The 8 proposal refers to this specific matter. At the same time, however, the proposers gave a much more general form, which made it necessary to search for whether we in today's Norway have a system which unnecessarily opens up national interventions in local matters. There was then a question about today's system is to live with, when we want to focus on, for example. local democracy and local business. As spokesman for the case, I was so interested in finding out if there were any arguments to correct the system, or if Jondal-saka more represents the exception than the rule. The result was that I had to answer no to the first and yes to the second. The conclusion here today is that Document No. The 8th proposal should be annexed to the Minutes. In line with normal practice, the proposal was sent to the Department for Commentary, and it must be said that the response from the Department was very informative and happy for all those who have genuine care for Norwegian local democracy. The facts show that national intervention in local plans is less frequent than in the past. The municipalities generally approve their own plans, and the number of complaints for the department has doctors at a stable and low level in recent years, unaffected by government change. But it's also a fact – and there's reason to notice, and there's a political point – that the department under the current lease has provided the municipalities with more things than what was the situation under the previous regime. That's why the Council of State hastens a feather in its hat, to use that expression, rather than criticism. The birthplace of the majority is the fact that the Council of State has pointed out a straight course, and the ministry can count on support in its efforts to further strengthen the care of local democracy and district development. The setting states that no party is required to take action from the department against local plans – positive, there must be a security valve at the national level to ensure important national interests. Here, of course, it's a matter of doing a trick. The proposers travelled in Document No. The 8th proposal is the question of whether it is possible to establish clearer guidelines for the practice of discretion, a proposal that has been captured in the Committee by the Progress Party and the Right. But all the evidence shows that there is no need to spend time and effort on such work, because the development is clearly – fortunately – in the right direction, and what we need is less and no more paperwork and bureaucracy. There is an argument that should make the impression of a lot which in many other contexts just raises such tabs. On the other hand, the municipality of Jondal may be sorry for the outcome of the discretion exercised by the department. It is not a sensational reaction, but it must be perceived as an understandable reaction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e182	We all have a responsibility to find the balance between the concern of nature around us and the concern of society around us. We are probably all in this room some say that we should use the concept of sustainable development as a guide to our work, and that the development of society and industry should go hand in hand with the concerns of the environment. Unfortunately, this isn't always possible. Sometimes these different interests collide, and then one has to make a choice, one has to choose one over the other. The result of this option may depend on where you stand and where you stand. I believe that these different interests are part of the background to the legislation we have in this area today. Just after the government change, there was a strong focus on the review of local decisions. This was justified by national interests. The impression was created that a new policy had been put in place in this area. It was therefore right to ask for a review of this case complex with a view to finding out if this was the case. The proposers refer specifically to the review of the Jondal municipality's municipal plan for Hereiane. Jondal is a typical district municipality that labors to keep up the population and thus the municipal service supply. Lack of jobs throughout the year is some of the problems they are struggling with in Jondal. The development of local business is therefore very important for the municipality, and also important for the municipality's future. Hereiane is a small mountain area north of Jondal center. Because of the special quality of the mountain where stakeholders wanted to start with mass take-offs in the area. Locally, they saw this as a precious chance to get local food development started, and it was based on local resources. In order to facilitate such a development, a planned work was started. In this work, the municipality had close contact with county and state authorities. When the local government managed this plan, there were no instances of counterclaims from any such authorities. On the contrary, both the county and county councils in Hordaland were in favour of these plans, not least in view of the need for nutrient development in Jondal. This was a surprise when the Ministry of the Environment decided to review a spatial plan drawn up in line with the cookbook and supported by regional and state authorities. With this decision, an edged right was denied to consider the possibility of setting up a business on the basis of a local resource. Local democracy was overrun. In some cases, local and national interests are opposed to one another. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment to ensure that national interests are safeguarded. But it is also the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment and the Government to take care of local perception and local democracy. Although the Ministry of the Environment has the right and had the power to review decisions, this right must be exercised with great care. In particular, it must be the case where there has been no local contradiction, as in the case of Jondal. I was going to ask the Minister for the Environment, but since she's not here, I'm going to ask the Minister for Industry to do a little more for why one in this case found the error to overrun local democracy. The letter from the Minister for the Environment shows that this is very rare. But then there might be an even greater reason for the Storting to get an idea of what kind of assessments you've made when that happens. And I'm going to say that in Jondal's case, there's a slim comfort that there's very few other municipalities that get to approve of their local plans. I would therefore like to ask the representative from the Government to tell you a little about the importance when one in this case found out that one should try out both local, regional and state powers. [[Axis]] We're talking about a district municipality that has a lot of untouched nature. It's a good thing, of course, but it's not supposed to make the big community think of pristine nature as a good that can't be used locally. And it has to be allowed to ask the question: would this project have been stopped if it was in a suburb, for example. to Oslo or in one of the other major municipalities in the country? The community of Great Britain has been deprived of the local community in Jondal’s ability to bring about local economic development. Then, in my view, it is also the responsibility of the big society to be involved in helping out alternatives. I could imagine asking the Council of State to contact Jondal, so that the community also shows an interest in helping the municipality forward. We know that in some other cases a local resource has not been allowed to be built up, for example. in Stryn, by the side of the great community, claims have been paid. I do not believe that those who pursue municipal policy in Jondal are interested in any transfer of funds. On the other hand, they are interested in the sustainable development of their business, and I have great faith that they want and need both contact with and support from central government to get to this. When we in the Labour Party wanted to have a review of the practice of today's legislation, it was – as I said initially – not least on the basis of the idea that a new practice could be seen through the media. A request for this review was made, and I believe it has been honoured, as the Ministry of the Environment, in a very thorough and thorough letter to the Committee, has settled today's practice. In addition, it is said that a planlov selection should be set up to look at this in a larger context. Although a question mark may be set on and possibly disagree with some decisions that are based on discretion, it is not necessarily inconsistency in the system itself. In my view, all the intentions of the Labour Party proposal have been captured in the course of the proceedings conducted by the Stortinget. I see, however, that there is a minority who would like to stick to the proposal, and I am somewhat surprised at that. I actually think I want to use the ability to site former Prime Minister and Right-leader Jan P. Syse. He pla said something like that what's in order, shouldn't be repaired. In my opinion, the review of this committee has shown that the system itself is in order. If so, it is only the desire to plague the Government that remains as a reason to stick to this proposal. Clearly, that desire is greater for the co-operation and contract partners of the Government than for the opposition Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e214	Let me just say first to the last that I don't think this would bother the government exactly, I think it's more of a plague for the Workers' Party that Right takes up the proposal that the Workers' Party is not willing to stand behind. The right is of the opinion that the three proposers are raising an important debate, a debate that the Right has tried to travel on a number of occasions. We have been concerned with the issue of national interests balanced against local self-government and regional development, and we have been concerned with the issue of national interests balanced against private property rights. For many years, however, we have had to recognise that the Workers' Party has been more concerned with safeguarding the so-called national interests – whatever it should be – than taking care of rural development, local self-government and private property rights. In our right eye we therefore hope when the three workers' party representatives Leif Lund, Signe Øye and Sylvia Brustad raised this proposal. But I have to admit that we were somewhat in doubt about the depth of the new recognition, whether this had its origin in a local matter or in a general wish for a more fundamental debate in which one could go into this very balancing between national interests, local self-government, district development and private property rights. The Committee's examination has shown that the new recognition was not very deep, at least not in the Workers' Group. We have to note that the three representatives have suffered a lasting defeat in the Workers' Party's big group by not being able to get the rest of the party to raise this debate – unless it is right that this was more about a single issue than about a desire for a general debate. A fig leaf has been found in the letter from the Council of State, and that's the Planlov committee. From the Right we also look forward to the results of the Plan Law Committee, but I think that everyone who has been away in the type of work before knows that the kind of things that you are busy travelling here are drowning in the big context. So if you were really interested in getting a fundamental debate and a new borderline around the different considerations, you would have to follow up what's in this proposal. I also agree with John Dale when he says that we do not in ourselves need more paperwork and more bureaucracy, but that we need political will. And that's where it sticks, that the center parties sit well in the government quarter and are not so willing anymore to stand up for the local interests. We know, like the Workers' Party, that it's the local self-government that suffers, we've seen that on several occasions. Finally, on behalf of the Right Party and the Progressive Party, let me address the proposal made by the three Labour Party representatives, but which they are no longer behind.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e227	Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e230	Let me first express the view that today the majority seems to agree that it is difficult to balance national interests against local interests and local majority decisions. It is a difficult judgement, which must be exercised in a gentle and prudent manner. There is also evidence both in the setting up and in letters from the Council of State that when national interests are used in this balancing exercise, there has been a very cautious intervention by central authorities, and there seems to be a constant between changing governments when intervention by national authorities is necessary. It will happen very rarely, and there seems to be a broad consensus on it. With regard to the specific matter on which the representative asked the Akssen question, which was perhaps the reason why this debate arose, and which led to the issue of principle being raised in this document No. The 8-proposal, there is probably an understanding that I have been modestly involved in the proceedings themselves. But because I happen to be a representative of this particular area, I've at least followed it from such a point of view. I would like to stress that in the local debate there has obviously been a shared view of this natural intervention in the entrance of Hardangerfjorden. There has been a significant commitment that draws in both directions, although there has been a clear and clear view among and has been a clear decision of the elected bodies in the municipality of Jondal. What has been crucial here for the deliberations and discretions of the Ministry of the Environment and the Minister of the Environment have, among other things, been: have been the opinions of the Directorate for Nature Management, which have given a very strong emphasis to the role of this fjord landscape in Hardangerfjorden in a national and international perspective, and that the Hardangerfjorden, together with a few other Norwegian fjords, has also been designated as a vital interest in an international perspective. That is also stated by St.meld. No 29 for 1996-97, submitted by the former government, that precisely landscape considerations are highly priority in such contexts. Important emphasis has also been placed on the fact that a pick-up plant located in the area in question will be a significant natural intervention, combined with a significant uncertainty as to the economic potential of the holding and the jobs it could actually provide. It is important to realise that these types of jobs could be set up in such a context against others and perhaps even more expansive business interests linked to tourism in the area. The Hardangerfjord is one of the designated national areas of activity for travel, and that means that national authorities obviously have a task of trying to address these national concerns. And those who are local know that a significant natural intervention in this area becomes very clear right here at the entrance gate and the entrance to Hardangerfjord, where, among other things. cruise traffic has shown a positive trend in recent years. So it's these considerations against the situation that one here intervenes in the decision of the local authorities, with the ability they have to use their own resources to get their own jobs, if possible, which have been done by the Ministry, the Council of State and the Government, and which has made you fall on that side – we know what the conclusion was – as one has done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e241	I will not try to prolong the debate. But I feel that when Jan Tore Sanner finds out about the things he's doing, he's trying to cook soup on a nail. The Ministry of Environment's letter clearly shows that municipalities have a high level of self-government in this area, and for this reason it should not make any greater efforts to go through the law and regulation when one knows that it works fairly according to the intention. But whenever judgement is to be exercised, there may be differences of opinion as to whether judgement is right or not. In the case of Jondal, I believe that there is a basis for asking if this has happened. I understand, of course, that the Minister of Industry is not in the same way as the Minister of the Environment is able to deal with just why in the case of Jondal, the local self-government would be overrun. I respect that, and I note that. But I had hoped that when the Minister of Industry, when he was here, could answer my other question, about the industrial policy aspects of this. Jondal here has been deprived of an opportunity to drive economic development in an area that they think has a lot to do. I want to claim that there are no business-policy reasons that have made the government go against this, but that is the concern of the environment. I asked the question whether a central and state-owned person now wants to contact Jondal to see if the state or the public can otherwise help fix what is at least considered an untimely intervention in Jondal. It was with the hope of being able to get an answer to this that I asked for the word again. So my specific question to the Minister of Industry is: Will you now contact Jondal and try to help them develop their nutrition so that they can reverse the negative development of the population of the municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e252	I can assure the representative that there is considerable contact with the Regional Council of Hardanger and Voss and the Ministry of Industry to look at the economic development and potential of the region. Last week I had a meeting with the rapporteur in the area to discuss the current — and especially one — industrial policy project. It's a significant activity, and it's now working in many areas that we might have reason to believe have a greater potential for development than extracting rocks and shipping them out. For various reasons, I will make sure that contact with Hardanger will be quite good in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e257	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e271	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e280	The purpose of today's debate is not to assess either the shut-down or further operation of the Halden reactor, as it has been possible to get the impression by reading the preliminary review of the case. The size is invited to decide on a continuation for a new three-year period of the so-called Halden project, which is an international research programme located at Halden and administered by the Institute of Energy Technology. The majority of the Committee, all outside SV, concludes that the Halden project should be supported for a new three-year period from 1 January 2000. The assumption is, of course, that an operating concession is granted to the reactor and that the Institute of Energy Technology achieves cooperation agreements with the parties to the project. So concession or not is not on the agenda today. The basic objective of Norway’s involvement in the Halden project is to maintain national competence in reactor technology. The project shall also contribute to nuclear accident preparedness, the monitoring of reactor installations in the neighbourhoods, the strengthening of the safety of reactor installations in Eastern Europe and ensuring the influence of international nuclear safety. The project will also benefit the Norwegian industry, including: through the research of control rooms. Nor is it immaterial to point out that the project is Halden's largest job. The net taxes and taxes paid by the Halden project and its suppliers to the State in 1993 were approx. Forty million. kr after the State’s 30 million allocation. kr was deducted. The potential to contribute to greater nuclear safety of nuclear reactors in Eastern Europe has been a very important element in the evaluation of the project. SV has wanted to turn this message into a matter of concession for further operation and concludes by proposing that the reactor be shut down. I had a great deal of understanding of this conclusion if SV's pre-miss provider, Bellona, had had a basis for their claims in the counter-communication that was being promoted. Bellona’s counter-declaration contained a wide range of strong claims about so-called accident at the reactor, critical storage of spent nuclear fuel, out-of-date equipment and thus impaired safety, high-risk tests and relations with Russia and Eastern Europe. The Committee has had a very thorough examination of the notification. As rapporteur of the case, I have been on an inspection at the Halden reactor – otherwise together with the representative Langeland from SV. We have also carried out two consultations in the Committee, including: Bellona and the Institute of Energy Engineering. At the last hearing, both parties were present at the same time to comment on each other's claims, and we cannot see that any of the questions raised now remain unanswered. The content of Bellona’s counter-declaration is the result of a change in the government’s policies and a move towards greater transparency in the context of the situation, as the entire Committee underlines. With regard to the six irregularities of the reactor produced by Bellona as very serious, it can be found after a thorough review that none of the events were such as to characterise them as accidents. They were not even obliged to report to the IAEA after the IAEA Nuclear Event Scale. All events are thus classified as 0 on the scale, with Category 2 being the limit of reporting obligations. With regard to the storage of the spent nuclear fuel, the letter from the Ministry pointed out that this is not carried out in a «bright shed», as Bellona claims, but in a warehouse with thick walls of concrete and roofs of wood and steel construction. I think Bellona had earned a slightly higher level of business. All members of the Committee, except SV, for one reason or another, require that the claims concerning storage be carefully assessed in the context of the concession treatment of the Halden reactor operation. Bellona is also very critical for tests of so-called MOX fuel. According to the State Radiation Protection Agency, this type of fuel has been tested by the Halden reactor for a long time and they cannot see that this is associated with greater risk than testing other types of fuel. However, the majority of the Committee assumes that testing of MOX fuel is carried out solely for the purpose of improving the safety of the use of this type of fuel. This includes, inter alia: that this type of research shall not contribute to the development of new MOX fuel-based reactor technology. The centre lots and the Working Party agree to establish a sample to consider making recommendations relating to the future closure of the Halden project. This has been suggested a number of times, and I see that for some it can be a paradox that, for example. Nordic Environment Ministers repeatedly protest against the release of technetium 99 from Sellafield in England, while Norway itself participates in activities related to nuclear power generation. I do not see it as a matter of course that the Halden reactor will exist in the future, and that is why the process and debate we have had in connection with the notification is also important. But based on the role of the Halden project, and the reassuring answers we have received, this is not the time for shutting down the reactor. I think this is the wisest decision now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e318	I'm not going to keep any long posts, I'm just going to have some short comments. A number of good reasons have been listed in the setting to continue the Halden project, and the rapporteur went through this in his article. Bellona’s criticism has been strongly refuted, and there is now almost full political agreement on this in Norway. It's not a prudence or anything new when the centre parties change politics after coming into government. That's pretty much what it's all about from that edge since they came into government. But I just want to come up with some quotes and some political positions that it might be fun to remember. In a letter to Bellona on 6 December 1993, the then depositor Lars Sponheim wrote: ‘... we go in to shut down the Halden reactor’. Christian People's Party Hilde Frafjord Johnson, current minister, also wrote to Bellona in 1993, where it says: «The fight for the further operation of the reactor will only stand when a new framework agreement with the OECD countries is to be concluded.» The fight has now been cancelled. Now it's only SV of the parts on Stortinget that clearly say no to further operations. The government is proposing to continue the Halden project for three new years. Now Lars Sponheim says to NRK Dagsnyt 18 December 1998: ‘We can’t just shut down a nuclear reactor without delay. It has, after all, been in operation for 40 years». As late as February this year, the parliamentary leader of the Left, Gunnar Kvassheim, said: ‘The left has not yet taken a position on whether the Halden reactor should be allowed to live on’. Confusion and confusion are nothing new from the left. Fortunately, all skepticism and doubt are abandoned, and the Halden project is given a new period of time to research these questions, and among other things. contribute to ensuring the operation of reactors in our eastern neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e350	As an east fold, of course, I have been involved for many years in the Halden project, and it has been quite annoying for me – because I know this project almost as my own pocket – with all these sensational claims that have been served in the media in the last of the same project. Some of them have come from SV. I suspect that there is a close cooperation between Bellona and SV, and that part of the SV's views are taken from them. But these claims, which the media are so good at passing on, shouldn't be hanging in the air. It should be a task for all of us to try to create a balance, so I will take some of the points that have been raised in the debate and that have been continued by the representative of Langeland. He shall refer, inter alia, to: to the age of the reactor and that the ageing process has made the reactor unsafe. To this end, it is said that there is a question of concession treatment, and the assessment is based on real stress and not on the nominal age of the reactor. Furthermore, the reactor plant in Halden is subject to control and approval in accordance with requirements established by the Directorate for Fire and Explosive Protection and the State Radiation Protection. The reactor is tested every three years. Samples and analyses of the materials of the reactor tank are also carried out. The studies are documented in reports from Norske Veritas, which conclude that no conditions have been identified that are likely to compromise the safety of the tank. The representative of Langeland points to clarification regarding the storage of high-activity waste. A State Radiation Protection Statement states: ‘There will be considerable costs associated with the final landfill of spent fuels, showing all experience from our neighbouring countries. On the other hand, that they should rise dramatically for every year that goes without the work of finding the final landfill solution being started, we do not understand. Sweden and Finland are currently investing considerable resources in research into how to construct such a landfill. Their results are continuously made available also to Norway, which means that Norway can make great use of the research carried out in Sweden and Finland in finding solutions to the landfill issue. It must also be taken into account that Norwegian waste does not exceed a few cubic metres, whereas in Sweden and Finland there are significantly larger quantities. Currently there is more than sufficient storage capacity at the warehouses in Halden and at Kjeller for 10 years of operation.» Nuclear safety is a global issue. The work of the Halden project is increasingly managed by the safety authorities of the major nuclear countries. They participate in the project because Halden can provide unique information on fuel and material safety and control room technology. Fuel and material research represents 2/3 of the international interest. The participating safety authorities continue to point out the importance of Halden’s results in improving the safety of nuclear power plants. So I have to ask: why is it so important for the representative of Langeland to remove the basis for an environment where authorities and security officers are taking important parts of their knowledge in the security field? I'm just asking. The Halden reactor has had a good safety history all the years it has been in operation. The six events mentioned are not accidents, but are considered to belong to Class 0 of the IAEA Nuclear Event Scale — i.e. that they are of ‘No safety significance’ and ‘No safety relevance’. They are well below the IAEA reporting obligation limit. However, they are reported internally and to the Straw Delivery and provide valuable knowledge and experience recovery. The representative of Langeland's argument about HAMMLAB versus reactor operation seems unrealistic. In fact, the reactor is the central element of the OECD Halden project. Both east and west, the credibility of the IFE and the Halden project as an international safety centre is strongly justified by the tests carried out at the Halden reactor. Of course, it is important to maximise the potential of both HAMMLAB and other IT activities in Halden. In today's situation, this potential can hardly be fully exploited without the uniqueness of the Halden reactor. The Halden reactor has enabled a significant transfer of technology in key areas of Norwegian business. The project does not only mean much to business, research and education, but has created an incredible number of hundreds of jobs in this frontier municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e370	I take the word to a brief comment. The background is that the Center Party, in the same way as SV, has programmable a closure of the Halden reactor. But the centre party looks contrary to SV's interests fully covered in the plural comment that lies ahead. I refer to the Government of St. Meld. No 22 to set up a selection to assess and advise on the future closure of the Halden project, and to assess the challenges posed by the physical shut-down/removal of the Halden reactor. The selection should start its work during the three-year period 2000-2003. This position follows up the plurality, while stressing that it is important to be able to harness the competences built up over several decades. The procedure you have chosen here, which is to implement one of the Central Party program entries, makes sense. We haven't won yet, we are about to do it now. But the use of time is an important point, and we've never ignored it. In the Committee, it is interesting to note that the representative of Langeland, who has given priority to all others, has given priority to the long-term closure of nuclear reactors and that implementation requires special expertise. If this premise is taken into account, and that is absolutely necessary, it is not possible to adopt a proposal here today which laconically states that the Halden reactor should be shut down. It is, of course, a conclusion that has already been drawn, if not otherwise, because the life of the reactor is soon out. Afterwards, a focus must be placed on the question of defence liquidation and a desire to continue an important competence for future employment and business. Otherwise, I refer you to the case spokesman who said that he was doing the right thing for the arrangement from the Government – a point of view of the majority in the committee has joined.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e379	Let me first bring you a confirmation. SV of course cooperates with Bellona and others in environmental transport. We've always done that, and we're going to keep going. We used to have the Left, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party in that fight, but now they've fallen off the load, because now they're in position. Sponheim said on accession that this was the first environmental government. This is what we were hoping to follow up on, among other things. in this matter. So it's not happening, and it's going to be exciting to hear comments about the letter from Sponheim in 1993 – where he says very clearly that the Halden reactor should be shut down. What's the change in position now? It's as dangerous as before, Sponheim. You have to clear this up. SV goes in to shut down the Halden reactor. This is nothing new, it's a position we've had for many years. We have long believed that it is totally unacceptable that Norway, which does not want nuclear power, operates an atomic reactor that produces very many kilos of radioactive waste every year. These are wastes that we do not have a good solution for how to store in the long term. It just accumulates and now it's almost 10 tons. Let me point to two specific sides that I think have a lot to say. One is about trust and the other is about openness. Nuclear power plants oldest to the same extent as other industrial plants. However, due to the radiation to which the reactor core is exposed, the oldest nuclear reactors are faster than non-atomic systems. So that's why the Halden reactor is older than the physical age. And this lightning, in short, means that the metal is brittle, means that the age of a nuclear power plant is closely related to security. Old installations can therefore be assessed as a security problem. Thus, it is totally unacceptable that Norway, as a country that has decided not to have nuclear power plants, still has one of the world's oldest nuclear reactors. The fact is that it undermines the trust we need when we point to the need to shut down old nuclear power stations in other countries, but at the same time operates with this reactor. So to the question of openness. SV has pressed hard to increase transparency about the operation of the Halden reactor. And here we're going to give the government honor. There is no doubt that the Minister of Health, right after pressure, has done a lot to increase the openness of this operation. It's very much appreciated. But we think it's wrong for the plural to wave for this openness, because already last Wednesday the Evening Post showed that there are several skeletons in this cabinet. Then something came up that the plural didn't know about. But one says himself still content with this, and says that Bellona's claims are turned back, etc. There will be more things, of course. In fact, the security required by international agreements in the case of reactor operations is enough, contrary to what we are used to, and what we want in Norway. Not least the left has claimed to be a transitional party here. Therefore, it is important to me that Sponheim today specifies what hold the government will have for this further forward. SV joins the Left, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have meant before, and takes up the proposal to shut down the Halden reactor. With this I take up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e398	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the proposal to which he referred. For the sake of order, the President will draw attention to the fact that, pursuant to Paragraph 38 of the Rules of Procedure, the speech is to be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e403	First of all, the representatives who are trying to contradict the views of the Left in this matter. I think it might be okay if you then relate to what is today's theme. The concession for the operation of the Halden reactor is not the theme of the day. That matter shall be dealt with separately by the State Radiation Protection Agency and is, of course, the overall question of the continuation of the research project. This is and must be an independent assessment. Of course, security is ahead of all the benefits of the research project. It is not obvious that we have a nuclear reactor operating in Norway. If we were to decide today whether such a reactor was to be built in Norway, I would think that the answer from most parties on the Stortinget would be a clear no. The fact that we have these two reactors, on Kjeller and in Halden, has its very special history, but it's been a long time since it was established that it's not relevant to bet on nuclear power for energy supply in Norway. When we are dealing today with the question of whether reactor research in Norway should continue, we must assume that the reactors exist and, above all, that over several decades a highly competent and internationally recognised research environment has been built in connection with the Halden reactor. The research carried out there is important and useful both for the Norwegian community and internationally. The project contributes, inter alia: to maintain preparedness for accidents and to monitor reactor installations in our neighbourhoods. In particular, the Government proposes that research be directed more towards safety work related to reactors in Eastern Europe than in the past. For us who have noted the impact of the Chernobyl accident and who live closely to the nuclear power plants in the northern regions, this has to be said to be of both international and national importance. However, it is a respectable view on a fundamental basis to believe that nuclear reactors should not exist in operation in Norway, regardless of their purpose. But such a position should not lead to a suspicion of everything that is happening in the Halden reactor, although I can understand the fear, because in the past there has been very little public knowledge of what has happened there. For the Left, it has been important that what can be called a mystery about the research project in Halden, now cease. The government has submitted a comprehensive report on the matter. Previous practice was to write some lines in the budget proposal. This new and much more thorough process than usual in the past has helped to demystify part of what is happening in Halden. The clearest example of this is the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade's two letters of reply to the Storting on the matter. Here the many serious and dramatic statements from Bellona have been met and rejected. As the committee is also involved, there is not much left of Bellona's counter-declaration after that. It is contrary to the transparency the Government has introduced, which has enabled Bellona to go through documents related to the Halden reactor. Very many documents that were previously kept secret are now available. I noticed that the chief critics of the Halden reactor, Bellona, Nature and Youth, and even SV, said that there has been more openness lately. The Institute of Energy Technology has been informed that the Government's transparency policy shall also apply to reactor research. From previous governments was told to exempt all reports from the public. It is now important that this transparency policy also be enshrined in the legislation and that the measures proposed in this context be implemented. The government will, among other things, set up a working group to see how the taushets provisions of the Atomic Energy Act can be amended to ensure greater transparency. The left has clear expectations that the outcome of this work will be new and more limited provisions on professional secrecy. The left also reads the notification in such a way that the Institute of Energy Technology is subject to the Public Service Act. It says a little about a lack of interest in transparency issues in previous governments when the disclosure law has soon worked for 30 years without this being clarified. But it is also important for the Institute to draw up a plan for more transparency, as it is now required. This new openness has revealed some critical aspects, most recently the history of the buried reactor tank at Kjeller. But it's just this openness that has made you get these sides out. It's important that all the relationships around this and possibly other similar episodes become known. Transparency and thorough democratic processes, including those relating to security-free processes in the area, should provide the basis for such forms of work to be a closed chapter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e422	I am pleased that a broad majority in the UK supports the Government's proposal that the international research project at the Halden reactor be continued for a new three-year period from 1 January 2000. Norway is surrounded by nuclear power stations, and the research of the Halden project makes important contributions to maintaining national competences in reactor technology and adequate preparedness for accidents. There is no reason to doubt that the research carried out by the Halden reactor is useful to Norway. This is also the largest international research project in this country. It is important to stress, as the Committee also does, that the treatment in Stortinget is concerned with the research of the Halden reactor, not whether or not a new period of operation should be granted. The question of concession is now dealt with in the State Radiation Protection Act as a matter of its own. A new concession to operation shall be subject to satisfactory care for all safety-related aspects. When the Storting today agrees with the Government's proposal to continue the Halden project, it will be subject to the Government's subsequent renewal of the operating concession for the reactor. The Government has been particularly concerned about strengthening its activities in order to improve the safety of reactor facilities in Eastern Europe through cooperation and transfer of competences related to security technologies. I have noticed that this has also been an important moment for the committee. From the Norwegian side, we want to emphasise that this is going to be an even more central point in the new three-year period. A common objection to the activities of the Halden reactor is that, with its 40 years, it is one of the oldest in operation in the world. In order to get a proper picture of what this means, it is important to clarify that the reactor, because it is only used for research purposes, has a shorter operating time per year. years than an ordinary reactor. On average, it is operating approximately half the time. However, in some years it will no longer be appropriate or appropriate to continue the operation of the Halden reactor. On the day of safety reasons for shutting down the reactor, it would hardly be appropriate to build a new reactor tank to replace the old one. Then we must continue and further develop our national competence in reactor technology and accident preparedness in other ways. This requires quite extensive pre-work. I am pleased that the majority in the vote actively supports the launch of this work over the next three years. This concerns the proposal to launch a new evaluation of the Halden project, where a central theme will be to set up the continuation of the project for another important reason, namely the credibility of Norway that drives not to limit the operation of older reactors. I have also noticed that the majority agrees with the Government that a sample should be set up to assess all aspects of the future closure of the Halden reactor, including the issue of the final storage of high-activity waste. I would like to comment on a specific point in the majority vote: ‘However, the majority assumes that testing of MOX fuel is carried out solely with the intention of improving the safety of the use of this type of fuel. It implies that this type of research shall not contribute to the development of new MOX fuel-based reactor technology’. I can confirm that the purpose of testing MOX fuel is solely to improve the safety of the use of this type of fuel. Knowledge acquired by testing this fuel type as well as by the other material and fuel samples of the Halden project is available to all participants. Therefore, no one can guarantee that the knowledge acquired through experiments in Halden does not contribute to the development of new reactor technology. But the purpose of Halden's research is to contribute to safe reactor operation. Finally, the government has been and is very concerned that there is more transparency in nuclear matters. There's been too much secrecy around the reactors at Kjeller and Halden. I have noticed with interest that the environmental organisations that are critical of the business indicate that it has already become more transparent. But the government will also go through laws and regulations with a view to more transparency. This applies, inter alia, to: the taushet provisions of the Atomic Energy Act and the validity of the Public Health Act for the Institute of Energy Technology. The government is also very concerned about facilitating a greater degree of public transparency in the process of new Halden reactor concession. I also hope that the fact that the Government has presented a separate communication on the continuation of the research project has contributed to more transparency and to the demystification of some of the conditions surrounding the Halden reactor. I note with satisfaction that a unanimous committee joins the proposals for more transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e457	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e460	I have some comments for the Council of State. This is a research project, but it must not be produced as if the research programme in Halden could go further without it being a nuclear reactor in operation. The issue is that the Storting today says yes to the further operation of the nuclear reactor in Halden. To present it as something else is to expound the fact that the Left and the other government parties have once again turned all the way around in a big and important matter. That's good, it makes sense to maintain the operation of the Halden nuclear reactor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e467	Yes, it is true that the Stortinget today takes a decision on the continuation of the three-year research project, but the research project depends on the continued operation of the reactor. The question of the soundness of driving the reactor must be dealt with as an independent matter, as the Committee also says. There's a concessional treatment going on. There will be an adjustment from the State Radiation Protection Agency to assess safety issues. The government will have to grant concession on the basis of it. If, for example: I would like the State's radiation protection system to come up with a position that said that it is no longer safe to drive this forward, I believe that both the conclusion of the Storting and the Government about this must be quite clear. It is the government that gives the concession, but the Storting will agree that then security is no longer guaranteed. It will be the attitude of the State Radiation Protection System which will be decisive for the Government’s position on safety matters further, and here, too, the time-limits for the length of time needed to proceed before a possible new test by concession will be decisive. So to the question of turning around. There now seems to be a broad consensus and understanding that this reactor will be shut down if not too much time, and it has to do with age. There's no doubt about it. In the meantime, we can prepare for a proper resolution in order to be able to continue the competence of this exciting research community, which has produced so many ring-effects. It is funny to be able to record that Halden currently has nearly 1 000 IT jobs, and there is no doubt that this competent environment has been quite crucial as an engine in developing an interesting environment. At this stage, the government has come to the conclusion that it will be right to continue the research project and have the activity, but no one today is talking about building a new reactor tank on the day it no longer has the stamp to be safe to drive on. In that sense, everyone must admit that we are in a final phase of this reactor's life. Then we get to take the maximum out of it and use it in the period and make sure that we can continue the competence. It's the government's policy, in addition to the brand new transparency line that the government has put on, that former governments haven't had.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e476	I want to start with a site from Bergen's Official Journal in 1995. The Minister of Economic Affairs shall state the following: ‘If there is something for which money should be spent, nuclear power stations should be closed down and nuclear power stations replaced by other energy sources. It is reprehensible to spend money on this.» This is about nuclear power plants abroad, but the problem is the same in relation to the operation in Halden. So here he has turned. I'm sorry for that from an environmental point of view. Sponheim and the central government said this was an environmental government, and the task of an environmental government is to do what they said they should do when they put in opposition, simply to help the reactor get shut down. I thought that the Minister of Industry must be very clear when it comes to the time — if this government is going to sit — this reactor is being shut down. So this is what the Minister for the Environment is doing in relation to Sellafield. It turns out that waste from Halden has been shipped to England, 17 shipments, but because of secrecy in England, we don't know where it's gone from. In practice, Norway is very likely to participate through the Halden reactor itself in the pollution we have along the coast and the plutonium found in the North Sea. What did the Minister of Industry think of this? And what did the Minister of Industry think about, rather, investing in the ability to shut down nuclear reactors, so that we can help Sweden, Germany and others when they are going to shut down?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e492	The quoted quote was probably in a completely different context than this, but I have read in the newspaper today that you can do so often with quotations. At least there is no doubt that this government is committed to investing in alternative energy sources. But it is now a reality that, in my opinion, someone made a wrong decision once, when it was decided to add a nuclear reactor to Norway. We're dealing with that. I never think that decision would have been made today; I don't think anyone in this room would have gone for it even today. But it's a reality, and we're probably in the final phase of this reactor's life. And around this reactor we're spinning a significant international research project, where we get an entrance ticket of just under 30 million. D for significant activity in Norway in this area, and a significant build-up of skills that has over the years had significant ring-effects, as we were in the previous project. The government has a desire to take effects out of a few more years. So the question of when the reactor is shut down. Yeah, it won't last forever. It's an old reactor already, and it'll be an ongoing safety assessment. The time for which the Government will decide when it should consider this, the Government will come back when the concession is granted. But it will therefore be a continuous assessment of safety which will be crucial for the further operation of the reactor. We now need to start work to continue the competence and research environment and all the interesting ring-effects that come out of this project. It's going to be a main problem in the future. I think it is important to stress that I think it would have looked if in the debate on this matter today we had not had an SV to bring counter-representation and their views into the debate. I highly commend SV for that. In other circumstances, it might have been that others had taken on such a role — it's a hypothetical question. But that's exactly what the government's been looking for, to present its own big message, just to invite Bellona to get the insight to try to make a counter-message and get a debate. For it is at the crossroads of the open debate that good balances and good solutions are being made. And I would like to remind you – and that's in and out of debaters before – that it hasn't been a tradition for previous governments to invite to that kind of transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e501	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e506	The Halden project is unique. The research carried out is of national and international importance, and the broad commitment and mission of the programme demonstrates the importance and correctness of continuing the Halden project. Nationally, it is important to maintain the competence of reactor technology, and this is therefore the only major national environment dealing with practical reactor safety. The majority of the Committee shall include: the importance of the project in terms of preparedness for accidents, Norwegian influence in international nuclear safety and transfer of competences and cooperation in security technology. There have been criticisms from various quarters about the safety of the Halden reactor. This criticism has been rejected by expert teams and declared groundless. Otherwise, the safety aspect will be addressed carefully during the concession treatment. I would like as much as I can emphasize the meaning of the ‘Atomen’, as it is called on the populace, for the business and higher education community in Eastfold and, in fact, for the rest of the country as well. A number of Halden project products and systems have formed the basis for Norwegian industry and business. Here you can mention the development of program systems and the large simulation systems for Oseberg, Gullfaks and Troll, to name a few. Furthermore, IFE-Halden has cooperation agreements and portfolio tasks for, inter alia, Kongsberg Offshore, Siemens oil and gas, Norwegian Hydro, Saga Petroleum, etc. Locally, the project is invaluable. This Halden environment has developed a reputation as one of the foremost in information and communication technology in the country. The cooperation between the IT profession at the Högskulen in Østfold and the University of Oslo on getting to the main subject study can be traced back to the "Atomen" environment. The students have project tasks as part of their studies related to the «Atomen». In addition, an advisory function has also been established for small and medium-sized enterprises, for example. in the fields of design, fine engineering, metallurgy, chemical analyses, computer networks and systems. As if this were not enough, there is also a significant headshot in the activity of the atom. I would like to mention in particular OM Technology Energy Systems, formerly Hand-El, which generates approx. 160 jobs, exporting computer programs for energy supply to several corners of the world. And I would like to mention the Foundation of Eastfold Research, which has activities and research in several places in Eastfold. STØ is engaged in information technology, public finance and environmental engineering. All this will jump out of the Halden project. The controllers of the International Atomic Energy Agency checked for the rest of the installation early in March and should have no comments on the safety of the installation. It also confirms that the high level of safety is maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e521	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3 [[Fotation, see page 2606]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e535	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 45 minutes, the Progress Party 20 minutes, the Christian People's Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Centre 10 minutes, the Socialist Left 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Twist People's Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e544	The economic situation in the country is still on the right track. The stock exchange goes up, the krone goes up, the oil price rises, and the interest rate goes down. The decline in interest rates shows increasing confidence in the government's economic policy. It is the basis for business development and stability. Norway is facing major challenges in the next hundred years. Petroleum revenues are expected to decrease, while the elderly make up a larger proportion of the population. Norway will then be dependent on a profitable, continental business in order to sustain the welfare community. I look forward to the future for Norwegian business when the Government’s business report now receives wide support in Stortinget. The government has developed a four-point strategy for industrial policy: 1st@item: inlistbox Companies must be created, they will not be adopted, so starting and running a company in Norway should be easier. 2nd@item: inlistbox Human beings are our most important resource; hence, it must be committed to the development of knowledge and competence. 3rd@item: inlistbox Between hills and hills we live, therefore it should facilitate an all-round, environmentally friendly business. 4th@item: inlistbox Norway is a small country, therefore it should facilitate the use of Norwegian business opportunities in a globalised economy. A key element of future business policy is neutrality, soundness and coordination. The government has launched an action plan for small enterprises, with measures to facilitate the presence of smaller enterprises. The Committee points out that industry should meet a public service sector. The business community should meet a simpler Norway by reducing the form field and the scope of laws and regulations. There must be a new trend to apply when a collective committee is currently being proposed ‘about the Government intensifying efforts to reduce the scope of laws and regulations that business needs to deal with. In particular, the Government is asked to assess all economic and administrative implications for business before the introduction of new laws and regulations». I note that the Government has already started such a work. So this government is in the forefront. Why bet on small businesses? First of all, because almost all businesses are small. Economic policy now takes the consequences of the fact that 96 pst. fewer than 20 of the holdings have been added. Besides, much of the innovation is happening in small businesses. The Econ report tells us that quantities of enterprises will disappear, and that 85 pst. by Norwegian holdings in the year 2020 do not exist today. Innovation, therefore, is a key to a secure future. The business message is just focusing on it. Man is our most important resource. Knowledge and competence will become an increasingly important competitive factor. In a Chinese saying, if you want to fall home once, plant rice, you will fall home 10 times, plant an apple, you will fall home 100 times, teach youth. Norway has had an educational explosion in the last decade. We have the world's most outnumbered workforce. Now we need to invest in more IT skills and cooperation with the business community to get the most effective training. It is a growing recognition that learning can take place more effectively than is the case in society today. The future requires online training. It is a flexible form of training, it provides increased motivation, reduced costs and is constantly up-to-date. This technology also makes it possible to use the workplace as the learning venue, which is important, especially for the smallest enterprises. We are also concerned about promoting entrepreneurship in the school. Sweden has had good results over 20 pst. of young people have been founding fathers after such training, at an average of 2 pst. It is important to be aware that women well different from men. Therefore, it is a challenge for the guidance service to function in such a way that businesses can make full use of the skills that women actually represent. How do we get an environmentally friendly business across the country? It is the Government's intention that the value creation of the new hundred years must take place in the pact with tolerance of nature. Economic activity in all countries must assume that environmentally harmful activity will become more expensive in the future. One simply has to produce more unless a resource effort is needed. There's a lot of promise happening. The committee was on More and saw an eternity machine. With the heat of the Fireworks, light and a single-cell plant, a fantastic, endless production of food is under way. It tasted good, and it was protein-rich. It is likely that we will experience technological leaps, e.g. in the field of biotechnology, which gives rise to the emergence of new products and thus to a new entrepreneurial activity. It is important to consider new possibilities from an ethical point of view. Environmental concerns must be directed towards economic growth. A growth that uncritically loses non-renewable resources or leads to health damage or harmful climate change is not acceptable. The Committee believes that environmental impacts must be integrated into industrial policy. Information technology eliminates distances more and more. Business in the future will facilitate home offices and flexibility on many levels that we can hardly imagine. Then the edge will be as attractive as the center relative to the job. Then the Northman can once again bow between the hills and the mountains. It is necessary for Norway to be in front of IT, not least to eliminate the distance that causes Norway to be a vertices of the world. Norway is a small country in an ever smaller value. Geography means we're in the periphery of the markets that are most relevant to us. We can do a little bit of that. But this requires an industrial policy that promotes the ability of Norwegian companies to offer their goods and services in the international market. International legislation and cooperation mechanisms constitute important framework conditions in this context. For Norway, it must be a priority objective to contribute to a sustainable, open and non-discriminatory business environment. The concept of ‘localisation Norway’ gives an important signal about the Government’s strong focus on the need to be attractive for businesses to establish themselves in Norway. This will be followed up in the configuration by the Business Committee. In the future, it will become one of Norway’s main challenges to assert itself in competition for the localisation of businesses and competences. Framework conditions necessary for Norway to be an attractive country to establish itself in must be in place. I would also like to stress that energy supply is one of Norway's competitive demonstrators, which we have to take care of. Norway has many good intentions to succeed in the internationalisation process. The North has lived by the rule: Come out and build Norway. The majority are concerned about highlighting the value of the soft Norwegian infrastructure, also represented by the world-wide network represented by the Norwegian Maritime Commission. We see today a tendency for companies to move abroad in whole or in part. We have to avoid Norway becoming a branch country. The problem for the business community in Norway is that industrial competence and development tend to follow the purchase when key companies, their head offices or research departments move abroad. The NHO’s competition barometer focuses on 11 areas of competition that NHO think are important when companies are to take their localisation options. We didn't get there as lucky as we should. Our salary growth was too high, and we came out weak in terms of research and development. The infrastructure – road – is also not in place, although Norway is among the world’s leading telecommunications companies. There is therefore a need for a Norway Localisation Commission to be able to look at these issues. Norway must have a business policy strategy that involves the coordination and coordination of all policy areas affecting the location of enterprises in a globalised economy. There we have done a good job of working through the Enterprise Communication, which is now being attached, and which brings together a lot of support in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e608	The best way to prevent a fall down like a skin trap is not to jump up like a lion, said my colleague Rita Tveiten in a debate in this room a little late. No one can load Minister of Industry Sponheim for not having jumped high when he took over as Minister, and the time until today has been more marked by words than by action and more of passiveness than activity. Now Sponheim has been in the chair for 1 year, and that should lead to experience and clarity. While in the past he has the most stressed lack of labour as a problem, it can be explained, among other things. Here in Question Time on Wednesday suggest that he now also sees other problems in the short and long term. So I'm going to challenge Sponheim to develop a hard-on, if he wants to listen to me, step up his efforts and take the initiative of a broad cooperation with everyone who wants to help secure employment and well-being in the future. He will then meet with many good suggestions – from the social partners, from the industry, from the educational and research community and from the tools, to name a few. There are also many good thoughts and ideas in Stortinget's attitude to the nutrition message. I hope Sponheim read the setting with interest, and that he reads committee and plural as well as minority comments. Studa is so serious that it must be more important to find solutions than to have the fatherhood of the different schemes. Such an attitude has influenced the business committee's work, even though I had of course hoped that we would negotiate even more, and I would say that the deal is not as big as the case-speaker's impression. In fact, the government's party is separate from a lot of comments. In the following, I will go through the main elements of the Workers' Party's proposal for a more offensive bet. It has its background in recordings and ideas in different contexts. I myself have, among other things: benefited well from a group home in Rogaland. In my opinion, LO Industrie has come with the most holistic and comprehensive document, where they see the ability both to see challenges and to point out how to meet them. I have most of my experience in the social sector. A common feature between business and help-needed clients is the principle of self-help. People with ideas and new founders often need help, both practical and economic, to come from idea to profitable business. I am quite sure that the closure of the Business Advisory Service – because it is a closure, not a move that has taken place – and a sharp reduction in labour market resources for this year will result in less help for those who need it the most. The Labour Party believes that the message is good for the overview of developments and tools, the incompleteness of the challenges, the defensiveness of the strategy, the proximity of the action page to the absenteeism and the overfocusing of the role of small businesses in the districts. The Labour Party sees, as I said, major challenges ahead. The welfare tasks will increase while the employment and value creation of the established enterprise will be reduced. In order to survive, established enterprises need access to new skills and new enterprises that will depend more than before on good and up-to-date skills at all levels of enterprises. Without a strong and focused effort, we will meet two "gap" or "cliffs" in the future. The one gap is about value creation, that we want to create less than we need, and the other about competence, that we don't want the necessary skills to secure employment and well-being. The challenge is to prevent these "gapa". The government's strategy has been joined here in Stortinget, for which Apelthun Sæle did well. We in the Labour Party call for the strategy to be expanded to include partnership between public and private authorities on ownership, empowerment, research and development and the environment, and stimulate entrepreneurship and innovation in schools and working life. Before doing anything about how we intend to follow this up, I would like to point out three different areas where we believe the message is incomplete. The first is the one-sided focus on small businesses. We find reason to stress that Norway needs both small, medium-sized and large enterprises, and that they are often interdependent. We consider it important that it be organised for large Norwegian groups, for international groups with head offices in Norway and for international groups with activity in Norway. Large enterprises are often engines of development and have a particularly important role to play in research and product and competence development. Large and small enterprises are often interdependent. The second is that we have to use the whole country. The business message may indicate that this for the Government is primarily about using the districts. The Labour Party will use the whole country, and we find reason to point out that cities and central districts also need old and new ones. There's a lot of pressure on the area, not least where I come from. There is reason to stress that it is important to ensure the area of activity also in such areas. The third is that the Government places almost all the emphasis on private ownership in business. It is strange that the central part of the setting does not nuance this either. The Labour Party has launched a new strategy, easy partnership. It's a follow-up to the Jagland government's proposal on ownership. Here, proposals were made for an investment company and a technology fund. What we still think is a good idea, and at least there will be more business development of this than using NOK 1.5 billion of Norwegian Varekriegsverzekering's fund to balance the budget, as it was done before Christmas. It has been claimed in the debate that there is enough capital, that is not what is missing. I guess so. I wonder if there is enough capital to make long-term and long-term investments. I wonder if it's enough with professional investors. I wonder if there are a lot of investors who care about society and not the most about their earnings. I don't think so. We in the Labour Party don't believe that, and we want to use something of the economic freedom that we as countries have, that the state can have a hand on the wheel. We want a state-private investment company. The State’s ownership shall not exceed 49 pst. and private investors shall have multiples on the board. The aim is to build up a financial instrument, such as: may be involved in preventing Norwegian business from being purchased from foreign capital. With up to DKK 5 billion, the company can make offensive investments both in Norway and abroad. In our opinion, this will help secure national anchoring, competence, value creation and employment in Norway. This may be an active measure to prevent deflagration, as Ida Skard of the NHO warns against in today's business. Using state capital in interaction with business is not particularly important for Norway. Rather, it is that soon only the Norwegian Right is responsible for a consistent liberalist policy in which the state should keep its fingers out of the barrel: not regulate, not own, and at the same time require the minimum possible tax. There is also no room for special help for self-help in this regard. The unestablished and newly-established have no use of less tax. The same argument as for investment companies can be put into the mark of a technology fund to be used for responsible loans for the purchase of technological equipment in small and medium-sized enterprises which do not have the economy to cope with it. And the same argument is partly led to establishing seed funds, environmental funds and research funds. It's about state co-ownership, state involvement and government co-management. When that is said, I'm going to be the first to stress that the state should act more professionally as owner than it has at times done. The state must think long-term, provide stable framework conditions and not use state ownership to balance the budgets of this house. Public-private partnerships should also be developed and further developed in other areas, e.g. in relation to education at all levels and in relation to research. Close cooperation between the school and the school community is important. Cooperation may be to draw parents or others representing working or social life into school, and to draw teachers and elephants out of school. This will contribute to more up-to-date education and to allowing more people to try their way into work while they are being trained. In the secondary school, there is an established centre of competence in which teachers provide training for adults. This is done in close interaction with industry and the labour market, and it gives teachers input and experience that benefit ordinary students. Higher education cities, and especially universities, have, up to the last few years, our academic elite institutions, with rather little social contact. Fortunately, that's changing. External representation on the board is a means in this way, and in the Workers' Party we want to expand this representation. This is how we can make it easier for us to do so. business competence is represented in the governing body, which will clearly have ringing effects. Development and innovation take place not least in contact and cooperation within academic knowledge, practical knowledge and experience. It should certainly not be a surprise that the Labour Party is looking at an IT knowledge and competence centre at Fornebu as an arena where there is room for this interaction. But there are also other environments that lie, or can be laid, to facilitate such a link between industry, research and education. Networking between different environments is also a tool. We need to do all this to counteract the gap in skills in a business where we become more and more dependent on what we can. Basic research is important, and we look forward to a thorough review of the research message. In addition, nutrition law is important, so important that it should be given greater priority in the future. We promised to step up research efforts in 1992 — it was followed up in 1993. After that, it would have been rather frightful, even though nutrition research has been given a slightly higher priority. Public efforts are not on top, but not as bad as the private. In the United States, Sweden, Switzerland and Japan, industry uses two or three times as much per year. built-in for R & D work. The fact that there is less such work in Norway is probably due to the fact that the industrial sector in Norway is smaller, that we have the most small and medium-sized enterprises, and that the majority of value creation is going on in the commodity-based industry. But it's just that we have to get out of the commodity box, and then we have to find other arrangements than to bet on each company doing such research and development work. Therefore, the state must invest more in research and to attract smaller enterprises with, professionally and economically. It will require new forms of cooperation and funding, and is hardly possible without the commitment of the State over the years. In the Workers' Party, we ask the Government to consider how this can be organised. The number of doctoral students has increased strongly in recent years, but not enough in relation to the need. Here, too, the interaction between business, research and education is crucial. The Labour Party has also launched entrepreneurship and innovation as a strategy. This is handled in the message and in the settings and is not new. It's still important, I think, to lift this up. A slight simplification might suggest that for many decades we have largely expanded jobseekers, not creators. It can be changed by bringing in representatives of the business community from the basics, setting up businesses and setting up student businesses. In the further education, we should focus more on establishing knowledge and knowledge of driving for ourselves. What is now an optional subject should be considered to be a permanent one for the subjects that are training as a private sector. Nor has it been given that a civil economist or a civil engineer has inherent ability to establish and manage businesses. This should therefore be given greater emphasis in education. In addition, contracts with a future employer, practice and work with main tasks may be owned as an instrument. Collecting me this will help us to get more people to establish and run businesses, which will help us out of the commodity clamp and give us speed into the knowledge society. Others from the Labour Party will talk about continuing training. It is not at least with a more active state effort here that we can secure for the future. Finally, a little bit about the other areas: First, we need to coordinate and tailor the tools out and home even more. It is positive to record that SND largely gives customers a door to this device, now also to Norway's research council locally. But there are still many actors. In addition, individual services are so expensive that we can risk losing good ideas because those who have the ideas do not have sufficient ability to pay. The Labour Party requests that different models of cooperation and possibly aggregation be tested, where one opens up to different degrees of freedom in the use of money and people. It is also hoped that we will be able to give the instrument some more stable framework conditions in the future. Secondly, a small country like Norway cannot assert itself internationally in all areas and in all industries. Therefore, in the Labour Party we recommend a clearer bet in areas where we are or can bet among the best in the world. Thirdly, tax policy has much to say for Norwegian businesses to be or not, at least in Norway. Therefore, it is important that we do not have a tax regime that differs significantly from countries we compete with. In such comparisons, it is important to consider all aspects, not just the cost side. Fourth, it is important that the public assumes its responsibilities and exploits its potential to influence more focused and consciously in its different roles — as a regularist, as a service provider and as a purchaser. Nearly 200 billion dollars a year is a large amount for purchases. I would like to close Sponheim in the process of simplifying laws and regulations. Several have tried, but it has unfortunately mostly gone the wrong way. I am pleased that today we are making a unanimous decision to meet the costs of companies when we consider introducing new laws and regulations. Finally, I will again urge the spirit of hard work and joint efforts, and I would like the Minister of Industry to close down with a strong offensive to secure employment and well-being well into the 21st century.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e675	It will be a major challenge for the country to assert itself in the competition for the localisation of businesses and skills over time. Therefore, it may be disappointing for many of us that the message we are addressing does not focus very much on this topic and what framework conditions must be provided to make Norway more attractive as a country of localisation. I listened with interest to the case rapporteur, who gave the honour to this, but the instruments, which really matter to the business community in the international competition to attract business, were lacking. However, I expect this to be part of the debate, and in particular, the opposition will address the problems of flagging and what solutions will be needed to prevent Norwegian companies, jobs and tax bases from disappearing. Unlike many competing countries, we have had a strong economy throughout most of the 1990s. The country has been surfing a wave of wealth through our natural resources. The petroleum sector has provided and generates large revenues for Norway, but also makes the Norwegian economy appear to be highly dependent on an unforeseeable oil price. This is why it is important that the country get more legs to stand on, to ensure a more robust economy into the next millennium. Then we have to get out of the commodity clamp. Then it is necessary to learn from the mistakes we have made after oil wealth came. The difficult situation for many continental industries is, among other things, a result of the way we've behaved. Oil values caused us to lose some of the attitudes towards competition and income. We began to think that the income side was no problem, it was more a question of how to distribute the values. For too many years, oil money has been used to avoid making unpopular decisions or to avoid taking the problems of conversion. It's been the easiest way to let things go like before. And when it becomes a common and accepted way of ruling a country, results in the long term as a whole will be negative. That's the situation of the mainland industry right now. The value creation of the continental industries facing international competition has been greatly reduced over the last 20 years in relation to other industries. We have thus lost many businesses that could contribute with jobs and revenues to solving important societal tasks that we all believe should be clear, regardless of the party. The Progress Party believes that the industrial policy pursued has in many ways not been sufficiently start-up and development-friendly. For many in the business community who have had a choice, it has been a signal that moving abroad and putting any investment plans on the shelf here at home will pay off. Internationalisation and capital migration without respect for national borders have created a nation’s competition for who can offer the best framework conditions, attracting businesses, capital, competences and jobs. Old, closed markets and nations have been opened, and we see the results. In recent years, Norwegian capital owners have become less interested in investing at home, while at the same time investing more strongly outside their borders. Norwegian business interests and organisations also fear that foreign interests will also reduce their investment in mainland Norway. There has become a widespread perception that our country has become less attractive to invest in. The budding climate and the possibility of a return are too poor. An analysis involving seven countries, carried out under the auspices of the NHO, shows that only Sweden is perceived by many to have a lower investment climate than Norway. The party notes that Norwegian companies face a stronger competitive environment in the internationalisation process. Structural changes in our trading partners, competition from countries with lower wages and with a better economic understanding and a different business culture, may result in the closure of businesses and the relocation of production. We had a debate about foreign ownership of Norwegian companies and access to equity in connection with Philip Morris' acquisition of Freia. We have also experienced the same in connection with Kværner's stronger investment outside Norway. And after Aker RGI's decision to sell his shares in Norwegian-Swedish Scancem, the old Norcem can end up on foreign hands. Braathens is considering flagging out. We have the merger plans for Telenor and Storebrand and others, which could result in the same thing. It would be negative, especially when head offices and research departments of large companies disappear out of the country, because then much of the knowledge and innovative forces disappear. Of course, there may be reasonable grounds why enterprises choose to establish themselves in other countries. Some will grow in their core areas and will make production more efficient. But when we get visible evidence that it is the framework conditions that force businesses out of the country, then the conditions have to be arranged differently from the authorities, we believe in the Progress Party. It's dangerous if the head office disappears on a large scale because economic conditions are better off. This means that it is losing to important competitors who have changed their policies in a business-friendly way, because they have seen the importance and seriousness. Efforts have been made to prevent the disappearance of established companies, jobs and tax bases. Among other things, the tax regimes have been changed, in order, if possible, to tempt multinational companies and large enterprises to establish themselves with their head offices. Countries such as Denmark, Finland, the Netherlands and Ireland have joined this fight for the most part by renewing their industrial policy. In order not to put Norway in a competitive position, we also need to sign up in this fight for future jobs and value creation – yes, it is time. The debate booklet ‘Localisation Norway – Norwegian value creation in cross-border competition’ focuses on the international perception of our country. The fact that Norway is at the forefront of international business, and that we have a small domestic market with only 4.4 million inhabitants, obviously reduces the attractiveness. It's not much to do with. However, if Norway is to be able to attract Norwegian and foreign investors, there are other world-class framework conditions. One of the factors that have negatively affected us, and where we really have the ability to do something, is the tax and tax system and the level. What we politicians have to ask ourselves about in this regard, the Progress Party believes, is what is needed in order for businesses to establish or expand, hire more people and remain in Norway. We believe that this is important, among other things. to reduce or eliminate the taxes on wealth. Many of our competitors do not have taxes on wealth or are at a much higher level of wealth. In the examination of the January Notice of Ownership, all lots represented in the Industry Committee other than the Workers' Party expressed their wish to develop on the basis of a ‘reduction or elimination of taxes on wealth will make a significant contribution to strengthening Norwegian private ownership in business’. For the Progress Party, it is important that there should be concrete proposals from the Government as soon as possible. We also want to reduce and eliminate the inheritance tax, which is severely affected by a generation change in companies. In addition, labour costs may be reduced by introducing qualifying days into the sickness scheme. There is also a great need to liberalise the working time regulations of the Working Environment Act, so that workers serving costly production equipment can be used more flexibly and rationally. Furthermore, the investment levy and some other charges must be reduced and removed. The Progress Party has always called for the removal of the investment levy. It is complicated, creates distortions between different types of investment, and it is a curious charge that may have a negative impact on the choice of Norway as a country of localisation by enterprises. The sharing model of the tax reform is a separate chapter, and we expect that the various tax burdens placed on enterprises are assessed in the context of the review of the investigation into a flat tax system. The position of the Steel Committee on flat tax with a proposal for an overload of the tax burden from employees to businesses is considered unwise because it will affect the ability of companies to build up equity and thus the basis for ensuring future value creation and employment. Unfortunately, the government has not made constructive proposals and signals that are strong enough to reverse a negative trend. The notification has not misled the funds that could make it attractive enough to achieve more investment here at home in mainland Norway. The notification lacks a strategy that can put mainland Norway at the centre and on the agenda as an investment country. So now the authorities should take into account the fact that there are no selective aid grants and public guidance schemes that are essential. It can help, but it is not what determines where companies choose location. We will not avoid adapting the tax rules to the new international reality. All cloths must be set to regain confidence in long-term profitability for investment. Founders and industrialists cannot accept narrow national considerations. This must be clear: without the necessary tax reliefs, neither foreign nor Norwegian capital will be used to build up activities in Norway to an adequate extent. That is what will be the main challenge in the years to come. I would like to raise the proposal from the Party of Advances and the Right, referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e725	The representative Hedstrøm has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e728	The message we have for consideration today, and for that matter the setting, has many beautiful words and phrases. And that's good, to the extent that this is followed up concretely next time. A profitable business is the very basis for the State to take on tasks on behalf of the Community. What is to be distributed must first be created. In order for us to continue to adorn ourselves with the title of ‘citizens of the welfare state of Norway’ in the future, we must, in our view, strive to ensure that we have a business life that has a framework that enables us to generate a profit for taxation and investment. It must therefore be as attractive as possible to develop ideas, invest and operate in Norway. For the Right, it is therefore important that the public at all levels strive to accommodate people who are on the move, with creativity and entrepreneurial spirit, to be encouraged to take the responsibility of creating a business. It simply has to be that for Norwegian girls and boys it seems natural to have an ambition to start their own business. The government presented an action plan for small businesses to contribute to simpler conditions for entrepreneurs. It is therefore extremely regrettable that so few of the measures described are on track at the pace that the Government itself provided. To New Year's, as far as I remember, only one of the nine measures was on track. However, if what is described in the action plan is implemented, it is definitely a step in the right direction. There's a lot of evidence that we're going into a time when the rate of change in business is going to increase. New businesses will be established and old ones will be closed. The rapid growth of technology is driving this pace up, more than we who individuals may appreciate. One of the major challenges, in my opinion, is to master the major changes that must be expected to come. When the value-added forum estimates that 85 pst. by the enterprises in turn in 2020, are not yet established, at least this is an indication that business start-ups and closures become everyday. Research and education are crucial if we, as a nation, are to be able to follow in the development that must be expected to mark the entrance of the 21st century. If we're to succeed fully in industrial research, I think that as well as the business community as the state must be their responsibility consciously. The industrial structure in Norway is characterised by many smaller enterprises, leading to limited opportunities for research efforts. For this reason, the Right considers that revenue from the sale of State shares may be channelled into a research fund managed by the Norwegian Research Council. The time period we now go into, will also increasingly be marked by the fact that border means less and less. It implies success, it must have a framework for private business that is internationally competitive. It is therefore with concern that I register that Norwegian private ownership is returning, among other things. at Oslo Exchange. By reading this setting and setting for the ownership message, we see that in Norwegian policy there is a main difference in the view of ownership of the business. This main division goes between the Working Party/SV on one side and the other parts on the other. Of course, from this main point of view, there are periodic exceptions, not least when talking about state-owned companies in their own constituency, but it doesn't change what I would call here a major distinction in Norwegian policy. In the European context, one must say that the Norwegian Labour Party is becoming the most socialist of all the European social democratic parties in terms of the view of ownership of business. In contrast to the rest of Europe, Norway has increasingly acquired a business that is not only run by the public but also owned by the public. By reading the above-mentioned settings, one will see that the Workers' Party has in no way come to an end with regard to the appetite for public ownership. So now, by strategic purchasing, a public-owned enterprise is to be established both domestically and abroad. Funds must be set up, in close proximity to the cabin and weather, to increase the policy-driven part of business. The old socialist dream of the state taking over the means of production and business can be realized as far as possible, not by the original socialist idea, but by the temporal state wealth of money generated by the oil. This old dream, and now perhaps also the opportunity, has a view of Youngstorget and the Workers' Party. This project is marketed under the Business/Public Partnership network. We can just as well steel ourselves against this concept as we did last time, because it is going to be a passing melody in the future from the Workers' Party, just as we experienced it to the extent of the term 'Norwegian House'. We heard it in yesterday's debate on the notification of state ownership of industrial enterprises, we see it in today's position, and we heard the representative of the Labour Party address this in the debate, and it is stated in the document from LO Industry. When, at the same time as the wish to increase the public purchasing of enterprises, the Workers' Party provides framework conditions for taxes, taxes and other conditions, which are such that more and more boards are discussing flagging out, yes, I believe that there is cause for concern. LO Industrie pointed out in the note that it was small in Norwegian private ownership when the industrial revolution waned towards the end of the last century. At my discretion, the same party adds up to the corresponding tactic now: to weaken the private's ability to sit on ownership, for the next time to enter as a saving angel using oil billions. I have not been reassured by the fact that the former head of the nutrition committee, Enoxen, now seems to make every effort to get in the way of Jagland on the first and best occasion. The first occasion is likely to be the subject of the revision of the national budget. I would assume – for those who remember as far back as the current year’s budgetary procedure and all the deterioration of the framework conditions for Norwegian business that was then proposed by the Bondevik government – that Norwegian business is not particularly excited to see Mr. The Enox in pleasant passions with Mr. Ichland. I think it actually became clear to everyone who in that budgetary procedure made sure to zero out not only tax and tax increases, but both in terms of business conditions. On the other hand, the budgetary agreement is binding, in such a way that agreement is assumed with the Right and the Advance Party to make changes to the budget of the year. If the Government wishes to change the framework conditions for a pressed Norwegian business in a negative direction in the context of the revision, it is wise not to calculate with Right support. However, I expect the Government, in the context of the revision, to make an assessment of the conditions relating to the business on the base in particular, in order to take action, if possible, that can help to reduce the negative consequences that we see are in the process of happening – at least that in that wave valley we have to do something about investment. I'm not going to go through all the details regarding the Right's views and views on property taxes, investment taxes, inheritance taxes, etc., we've been through this in detail up to several debates this spring. However, I would like to point out one point that is very important for Norwegian business and not least for Norwegian district industry – we meet where we come from, whether we travel in committee or we travel as single representatives. That's what it has to do with transportation. The right will also point to and make concrete proposals in the forthcoming budgetary discussions. One of the things with which it is absolutely essential to get something done is the documented distance constraint of Norwegian business, and Norwegian district industry, in particular, has. The fact that the Government has, at least until now, been restrained from prioritizing this does not mean that it intends to deprioritize a more district-friendly transport policy for the future. I hope that they can already this year bring in things that can excite a little bit more than what has happened in the past. In the vote, the right has promoted four concrete proposals. I'll comment quickly on two of them. In one of the proposals, point 3, we ask the Government to set two annual publication dates for tax regulatory and regulatory changes. One thing you encounter almost every time you're visiting around the business world is the flood of changes that come. One thing is the sum of what's coming in the course of the year, but the fact that you get almost weekly changes, makes it all very confusing. I hope more than right can vote for us to do something about it. Another of the proposals is to ask the Government to draw up an overview of the number of forms and regulations that business needs to deal with in the submission of the annual government budgets. Now, in this action plan, there is a point about this with the form field, but after spending two days in Norwegian business this week, I would like to say, can we not start again with blank sheets soon? Can we not see what regulations and forms are absolutely necessary, and then cut out the rest?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e763	Would the representative, Gabrielsen, like to address the Right-wing proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e766	I do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e771	Ansgar Gabrielsen has then, on behalf of the Right, addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e774	St.meld. No 41 for 1997–98, Enterprise policy into the 21st century, provides a broad overview of the industrial challenges, both in a closer and broader perspective. Of course, it is easier to predict trends for the next few years than when the perspective becomes more decades. The message builds, among other things: on the following assumptions: technological developments will continue. Information technology will change both product spectrum, processes and organisational forms. Nature's resilience becomes a limiting factor. Internationalisation and globalisation processes will continue. The government has developed a strategy for the new business policy in four stages: Business start-ups and business start-ups should be facilitated.The development of knowledge and skills should be pursued.A comprehensive and environmentally friendly business environment throughout the country should be facilitated. I note with interest that the committee is marked by a great deal of agreement on the large lines. I think that is an important information for both national and international actors. The Communication points out that knowledge and competence will be important prerequisites for a competitive business. Then it's a little worrying that the interest among high school students in choosing science and mathematics according to the most demanding plans is falling. In my country, this leads to too little searching for a right-hand fishing profession and for a few applicants for an engineering profession. Recruitment from our state to a number of other disciplines also suffers from this development. I'm aware that recent teacher training has improved in mathematics and natural sciences. However, progress must be closely monitored. I am pleased that the majority of the committee is of the same opinion as I have now expressed. With the importance of the fishing industry for our coastal communities, marketing in international markets is very important. I would like the school to focus more on Latin language. In the longer term, efforts should also be made to provide opportunities for more people to learn Slavic languages, perhaps Chinese as well. Electoral options should be provided here at a youth level. Norway has a very open economy, where competition on international markets is becoming increasingly important. It is then surprising that foreign students have serious problems getting their exams approved at Norwegian universities and in relation to Norwegian degrees. Cultural understanding and language skills belong closely to each other. This is best learned by staying in the country in question. It's hard to see far into the future. But let me ask the following question: if people-rich nations in e.g. East and South America are approaching the level of wealth in the industrialized countries, while the world population is increasing to about 20 %. 9 billion people in 2050, about which we just saw an investigation, are we not going to get into a situation where the shortage of food will significantly increase, and therefore the demand too? I think so, and in such a perspective, Norway could actually be standing as a very large exporter of food, primarily fish, but also agricultural products. Let's make sure that these benefits are not destroyed by unwise land disposal on land, short-term sea harvesting or inadequate environmental policies that reduce our production potential. Initially, I expressed joy in the fact that there seems to be a great deal of agreement on the challenges of industrial policy over the next century. Coordination of planning from national level to county and municipality level is important. I am pleased that the message adds to such a targeted strategy, a strategy that has the best prerequisites for success. By laying the headlines for objectives and strategies, it is easier to outsource county plans, strategic nutrient plans, in line with agreed objectives. Finally, I would like to remind you of a natural reality: the natural resources are scattered throughout the country, and people live all over the country. This is a quality in Norway that we should value and take care of. However, good logistics and good transport solutions will become a crucial prerequisite for the competitiveness of the district industries. It's important to have degrees of freedom. Similarly, flexible people with basic knowledge will best meet the challenges of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e820	Between 80 and 85 pst. of the jobs we are going to have in 20 years is not yet established. This is no news. It is a short and good estimate based on past experience. In itself, there should be no sensation either. Economic growth, as we define it, as an increase in national product and increased output, is the transfer of labour from lower productivity establishments to higher ones. However, there is reason to recall that new businesses come largely as buds, from which new products, new production and new businesses are developed. The founder, the ingenious inventor, is important. But he or she is not creating businesses with the large number of new jobs. If we are to ensure and develop Norwegian businesses that can provide a basis for employment and well-being over the next millennium, there is a great deal of question that we have companies that are innovative and developing at all times. Our task will therefore be to facilitate that business, both public and private, has framework conditions that stimulate innovation. [[SIGHS]] In such a perspective, with a time horizon of 10-20 years, three key factors are: that we have a workforce with a high level of competence, both in breadth and as a point of excellence, that there is risk capital, both as equity and foreign capital, capable of providing good ideas at an early stage of product development, capital that has time to wait to harvest downstream and that there is strong national ownership, capable of resisting international participations that have only short-term profit interests; In such a perspective, beer taxes, tobacco taxes and brandy taxes — form also, for that matter — are relatively marginal. We're going to clean up all of this up and simplify, but that's not where the challenges lie. Norway is a high-cost country, and we should be happy about that. This means that we have products based on advanced knowledge and high skills of employees. This means exciting jobs and major challenges for employees. We should therefore stop worrying about whether we have a slightly higher cost increase in periods than other countries. What we should be concerned about, on the other hand, is the fact that we are in a bad position with our competitors when it comes to investing in research and development. As a percentage of gross domestic product, we are well below the OECD average. The 1995 figures show that we used 1.7 pst. of GDP for research and development. On average, OECD countries used 2.2 pst. Measured in dollars, we used approx. Sixteen billion. That means that if we were to be at OECD level in 1995, we should have spent $5 billion more than what we spend on research and development. If we distribute this fifty-fifty to the state and the private, the state should have spent $2.5 billion more on research and development. Our business life has many small businesses, which means that the state probably has to take a slightly larger share than in other countries. If we compare ourselves with Sweden, Japan, Finland and the United States, we are far below. Sweden uses 3.5 pst. All these countries are well above average. Now a claim may be that someone has to be below average, but it's worrying when it's Norway that's below, precisely because we're going to compete with the countries that are far above us. Research means both basic research and applied research. It's easy to forget basic research. Basic research is a research education, which in turn forms the basis for the research used. We have a proposal that we should have the ambition to get up at least at the average OECD level during 2002. Human capital is two thirds of our national wealth. We're not saying this. It was the previous government that said it in the long-term program. An industrial policy for the 21st century must therefore be primarily concerned with managing this capital. A good education system, which shows that society prioritises education, from primary to higher education, is the only way to develop the most important input factor in future production. A major challenge will be the use of IT in school. We have a proposal that says we should have a large-scale investment in IT. We haven't sucked our own breasts. In Sweden, they have developed this. They're running a project together with the education system and the business community, where they're going to spend NOK 3 billion over a three-year period. We want us in Norway to add up to a similar project. It is in proposal No. 8 from SV. I bring this up with our three proposals, the proposals No. Six, seven, eight.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e858	The representative Rolf Reikvam has taken up the suggestions he himself has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e861	The majority today deals with a major and important matter. Economic policy into the 21st century is fundamental to the further development of the Norwegian welfare society. We're actually talking about the very foundation. It is therefore positive that the Government and the Minister of Industry are given full support on the main strategies of enterprise policy, as summarised by the Ministry in four points. They're well-known, and I'm not going to repeat them here. This big business message shows a holistic and offensive enterprise policy, with an understanding of the transformation and renewal that development requires of us. In many programmes, the left has over time had the phrase 'we are not in the violence of blind forces'. We have always had faith in the individual, based on good ideals and strong will to influence our own future. We still have. A more open, globalised economy, in which we have committed ourselves to common rules of play with the world around us, confronts us with great challenges. But neither does the new situation call for renunciation, it gives us many opportunities. Developments need to be governed by legislation to ensure that important societal concerns can be addressed, but the answer is not to go back to a closed national economy. We need to take advantage of the opportunities that free competition gives us, based on what we have built, and the advantages we have and can acquire. The business message has addressed these challenges. The government will have a policy based on innovation and development of competences. We're going to be a winner in the globalised economy by building on our natural advantage, continuing to use resources across the country and improving the conditions for those who want to start and run new businesses. In some areas, the position of the Economic and Social Committee shows a traditional political disagreement along known lines of conflict. Despite the consensus on the main strategies, it is evident that the Workers' Party remains in traditional social-democratic thinking, with the belief in the state as a major player on the ownership side and in funding. On the other hand, the Progress Party declares itself to be the market liberalist option which the State is not to participate in. The right-hand side goes in the same direction, and the magic formula from these parties is tax relief. The central parts are in the centre – there is the left well. A marked shift of focus has been made in relation to previous governments. Innovation is the main keyword. Innovation requires society to value and facilitate the establishment of small businesses in a completely different way from the past. This is where the employment of the future will come. The Left also wants lower taxes and taxes on business. But we must not become monotonous in our busyness of it. We must not underestimate the fact that industry also has an interest in a well-functioning society, with equal value, social justice, high quality of public services and, last but not least, good infrastructure through transport. In that case, an uncritical and unilateral emphasis can be placed on the tax relationships of enterprises, one must look at the whole of the conditions under which business operates. The Community sector is also important for enterprises, not least small ones. The left will interact with the state and business, but we do not want an imbalance in which the state becomes a mastodont which, on political premises, will conduct a business development where there are unclear boundaries between the state as an owner and as an actor, and where interrelationship between the state and some major players in the business community can create uncertainty and doubt about real freedom and competition – a real democracy. Only from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade have many important issues emerged over the past few years that have brought the strategies of the Enterprise Communication to the fore in practical policy. I show you, among other things: to the Small Business Action Plan, the ownership message, industrial IT plan and regional IT competence. Government policy on education and research points in the same direction and shows an offensive government that sees the needs of society in the new millennium. Things take time, and the current state budgets always set limits on how much can be invested in each area. But the government is doing very well, given the economic and parliamentary conditions under which it operates. The myths that were tried last year about a government that did not receive anything are thoroughly refuted. There is no basis for such claims in the Committee’s setting up. To this extent, the opposition shall be commended for its materiality. The tactical need to weaken the Government through maximum rhetorical criticism is subdued. It is natural, as the political situation now is, and it is good for the constructive work of our common cause, to further develop the country for the benefit of its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e884	My starting point is that in a changing and unstable world, we must have a safe, systematic and long-term strategy from the political point of view, but it cannot be based on the solutions of the past. Over the last two decades, a new global economic system has emerged. This new system has its background in a technological revolution, the so-called ITC revolution. In many ways we are now witnessing a radical shift in the material basis of production, communication and trade. At the same time, there is a development in computer technology, for example: in hardware and software, in telecommunications and in sound and video broadcasting. All of this has led us into the digital world, where a distinctive feature is the incredible speed all happens at. The emerging new economy is characterized by technologically advanced but also by its global nature. Capital is managed 24 hours a day in globally integrated financial markets. Transactions of billions of dollars take place in seconds, and border is no obstacle. Investment funds from banks, insurance, pension funds, share markets and foreign exchange funds are linked in global networks. What follows in the wake of this is deregulation, as an integral part of the globalisation process, which is not a strange phenomenon. We see the deregulation of the Telecom, later we'll also see it in broadcasting, and we'll see reorganization. And people no longer have warehousing goods in their businesses, but they have to operate just in time, as it's called. What is far too little heed in this new situation, and the Labour Party has so far been the only one that has proposed, is the role of the State in this new process. Just because the economy is global and open, where the dependence on what is happening in Asia and on our own continent opposes us, there is an increasing need for the role of the state in the interaction with market players, but in ways other than what it has traditionally been – this because society is the long-term, just something you need in all the changeable. There is an urgent need – as social democrats Tony Blair, Gerhard Schröder and Thorbjørn Jagland have done – to think and deal with new things about the state's role in the new reality, not just in terms of our competitiveness, but most for the sake of our well-being. We're going to be able to further develop the welfare state in a global age, where borders don't matter anymore. This calls for new analyses and policy positions on ownership, new provisions for partnerships or consultations between countries and capital. We see this as the most important challenge in value creation and well-being in the coming years. This is because the traditional way to conduct economic policies and thus industrial policies is no longer sufficient – interest rate and monetary policy depends on global movements. This also means that financial institutions must, in a completely different way from now, be part of an industrial policy strategy. In the new globalised economy, we will therefore make new demands on the state's role in technology policy, environmental policy, education and research policy, and where the state through investment companies forms a strategic partner in the enterprise's business strategy. Internationalisation processes will be a key word, and then we also think that Norway must consolidate its jobs through global thinking and action, i.e. also whether any purchases of foreign enterprises will ensure long-term employment and well-being. Take, for example: Nycomed, who because of its limited size had to merge and thus move out, Telenor likewise. So we see changes in the ownership structures of our companies that promote a completely different policy from the government. Policies must apply across borders. To put it another way: Norway has two advantages: our high level of education and our national wealth. In different countries, partnerships have developed. Singapore, Israel and Ireland, which are not as different from Norway in size, are typical. They have put the new technologies, education and capital into use. But we also see it more and more transnationally. If we are to master getting driving rules for our more and more stateless groups, politicians must, among other things. agreements are concluded by the international organisations. In this context, we need to see the intensive work of the Labour Party and the National Organisation on employee rights enshrined in the World Trade Organisation, the WTO. So, we see cooperation models growing, different from before, and we in Norway actually have an important experience of taking part in this international interaction through our experience of income policy cooperation, which has ensured a stable political and social situation in our country over many years. In this way, the next WTO round, which will start in the autumn, is very important for Norway in terms of food policy, of course alongside the ethical aspect that follows in the wake of the cold water. And the signals that have come so far from the Government show that it will follow up the work that the Workers' Party did in this area. The state and the capacity of the international institutions to deal with the new realities and tensions that follow, and to integrate opportunities for individuals to make valuable efforts will largely determine the direction we are going in. From this point of view, we must regard continuing education for everyone as a legal right that individuals can choose to take out when they themselves find it right. In this perspective, we need to see cooperation through so-called development contracts. And from this we need to see an offensive for research and development, which can prevent companies from moving out or going out with their development departments, in order to achieve a high level of professional and research-trained workforce. So to partnerships about new businesses, which we're going to live off after the oil period. In this context, Fornebu must be seen, a cooperation for a power plant in which education, state and capital from private players together, a capital that would otherwise be most likely to be abroad. Everyone's talking about that with the new technology, you can run your business from the smallest little hook. Nothing could be more correct. But then we must not forget that capital is needed for it, a capital that is long-term and confirms residence and employment. Here, the interaction between private and public capital will show enterprise policy into the new era. The Workers' Party has proposed its own investment company, technology fund, environmental fund and research fund. Then we use the resources of our society to contribute to a development of both well-being and innovation in our country, and do not put ourselves in a situation where we can become loanees of foreign companies alone and experience relocation when the groups, who are stateless, move from country to country just as it suits them. In the past, the Central Party has seen the role of the State as important. Now they sell out the country's assets with a short-term gain. The right does not have the power to discuss the country's long-term ownership and nutrition strategy for a new era, even though they are in their time, when we are working forward, among other things. Statoil, agreed to see that value. But they haven't been in the new transition. Nor is the Christian People's Party participating in and discussing the state as a partner in a global industrial policy – even as Tony Blair's third way. However, there are partnerships between public and private capital that form the basis for the third road of social democrats — or in Norwegian: the consultation model. Finally, since the Minister of Economic Affairs is present: in a new era in which women and men participate on an equal footing, it is necessary that, in absolute terms, all their work, including in the field of economic activity, which continues to be highly man-dominated, the authorities assume equal participation of women and men in the policy premises. For women and men, there are also different assessments of what is important, and both should therefore be involved in planning at all levels.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e922	We are all dependent on a varied and economically well-thought-out business, so our job is to create conditions and provide the best possible framework conditions for business. There is no doubt that when industrial policy is introduced into the 21st century, there are high expectations from business. Therefore, it must be seen as rather disappointing that the communication bears the mark of failure of holistic thinking and of concrete proposals. This can be justified by the fact that too much time has passed from the various government-appointed samples, which dealt with the various issues of business, presented their work to the Government and elaborated this communication. And this, in turn, has led to a change in many of the assumptions made by the Government. In particular, the Progress Party had hoped that it had focused more strongly on the international impact of the international perspective on Norwegian business. We note that Norwegian companies face a stronger competitive climate as a consequence of the internationalisation process. Structural changes in our trading partners, competition from low-wage countries and a different culture of business may result in the closure of businesses and the relocation of production. The EU has launched negotiations on the admission of six new Member States. In this context, it is important that Norwegian interests do not become harmful. The lack of market access by the fisheries industry to the EU reduces the potential for coastal nutrient development, and it is therefore very important that the Government prioritises efforts to improve market access for fishery products. The Progress Party considers that it is important to adapt the framework conditions so that Norwegian business can also be competitive when new and more unknown markets are to be won. Therefore, the Progress Party would stress that the level of taxation will be of great importance in maintaining the competitiveness of our export markets. And when we first deal with taxes and taxes, we agree with the Government that the most central issues in starting and operating businesses are the tax and tax systems. Similarly, legal and regulatory design and access to risk capital are important incentives. The Progress Party believes that the time is ripe for a reform cleanup within today's huge form fields that have increased rather than decreased. As far as the capital market is concerned, the principle view of the Progress Party is that the capital market must be free of real prices, so that capital goes where it benefits most. Private financial institutions shall ensure the necessary capital for business and citizens. Furthermore, the Progress Party wishes to privatise central banks in order to promote competition and ensure equivalent offers and treatment for all users.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e935	The attitude of the Industry Committee shows that there is a broad consensus that the main objective of industrial policy is to contribute to increased value creation in order to ensure overall objectives of well-being and employment. As the Committee points out, business policy for a new century must address some fundamental challenges: Early in the next century, petroleum revenues will be considerably lower.In the same period, the proportion of older people in the population will increase.We will experience an increasing shortage of skilled labour.Increased capital mobility and freer world trade give rise to increased competition between countries to attract investment. And last but not least: the technological development, in particular the new information and communication technology, will transform society as a whole in a way that we see today only the contours of, probably also at a higher rate than most of us can imagine. I don't think these trends are going to be made as a scare image we should try to avoid. On the contrary, the future picture offers completely new opportunities for an innovative Norwegian business life and for the generation to create the values in the future. However, it requires an industrial policy that is adapted to these challenges and not just to traditional thinking and instruments. The government's emphasis is on creating a comprehensive industrial policy. Nutrient development and value creation must underpin all policies affecting the framework conditions of enterprises. In view of this principle and the challenges facing society in the new century, the Government has developed a four-stage strategy for the new business policy: 1st@item: inlistbox Starting and operating businesses should be made easier.2. It shall focus on the development of knowledge and competence.3. A comprehensive and environmentally friendly business is to be facilitated throughout the country. And last, but not least:4. Provision shall be made to enable Norwegian business to take advantage of the opportunities of a globalised economy. With the new business policy, the government has laid the foundation for a business-neutral policy that does not favour individual industries or enterprises but provides the basis for the transition to innovation independent of location and sector. I have noticed that critical voices, including in the committee, claim that this communication contains few concrete proposals. I think it is worth stressing that the Enterprise Communication has been all the way into being as an overall strategic message for future industrial policy. The concrete proposals to ensure that the strategy is implemented are part of the more limited communications, in budgetary terms and in the day-to-day work of the Government. This follow-up is already well under way in many areas. In order to facilitate start-up and business start-ups, the Government has put particular emphasis on the working conditions of start-ups and small businesses. I have noticed that this priority is being challenged by some teams, including in the committee. For the Government, such a strategy is a necessary consequence of the extensive innovation we must have in our society in the coming years. Of course, we need a diversity of both large, medium-sized and small enterprises in Norway, but if we look at the growth potential in the future, they lie primarily in sectors with a high degree of over-weight on small enterprises – even largely unborn enterprises. This is at the heart of our thinking on an innovative Norway, and that is the background to our search for new entrants and small businesses. As part of this initiative, we presented an action plan for small businesses together with the 1999 state budget. The purpose of the plan is to improve the conditions for those who actually convert their own ideas into profitable activities. This is a process that takes time, and measures must be designed in relation to the obstacles faced by enterprises. We have already integrated proposals from the action plan into this year's budget, but we want to go even further, including. as regards the conditions for family-run holdings. Today, the form field is seizing unnecessary resources in the business world. Through the action plan, we have started to remove or modify unnecessary detailed regulation. This is fully in line with the Committee's recommendation to the Government to reduce the scope of laws and regulations. As part of the programme ‘Simplifying Norway’, led by the Prime Minister, we will further ensure that contacts with the public, both as a service body and as a government body will be easier for business. I am therefore pleased with the Committee's agreement that we must have a user-oriented, service-oriented and competent public sector. I am also pleased with the Committee's agreement that SND will continue to be the central government finance organisation. We have placed great emphasis on SND as a coordinating body for corporate contacts with public sector bodies, particularly at regional and local level. The government aims to provide a major SND report in spring 2001. The notification will evaluate the achievement of the SND target and provide an assessment of the organisational conditions. As part of the message work, I will launch broad external evaluations of the business. The Enterprise Communication states that education and skills development will be central to future industrial policy, and I note that this will be widely endorsed in the Committee's position. The new business environment is based on competence, research and new technologies, and depends on highly skilled labour and continuous commitment to research and development. Competence will in the future be the main competitive factor for businesses. A forward-looking industrial policy will be based on a good education and research policy. I therefore agree with the Committee that this area must be given a higher priority and that this must be done in an interaction between industry and the public. I will highlight in particular the need to ensure access to competences in information technology, because it will be a critical factor in the coming years. Last year, the government presented a business IT plan containing 40 concrete actions. One of these was the creation of 500 new courses in the field of IT. We haven't just kept this promise, it's been set up a whole 835 new places of study. In the spring, we will present our own big message on electronic commerce and the new Internet economy in order to meet the offensive challenges that technology brings to Norwegian business. I want to highlight in particular the possibilities of information technology for a decentralised industrial structure that benefits all parts of the country. In particular, it points to the importance of promoting entrepreneurship in school and education systems. The government is running such a work through the ‘National Entrepreneurship Initiative’. The aim is to integrate knowledge and practices into the education system as a whole. Increased cooperation between educational institutions, communities and businesses will thus form the basis for active local environments with positive attitudes towards creating their own jobs. Such attitudes, I think, are crucial for getting an innovative Norway. It will never be so that anyone who tries something new succeeds. Then it's important that we have a entrepreneurial culture where we support those who try and give them the respect they deserve, whether they succeed or fail. In order to ensure the needs of industry for labour in the years to come, we need to facilitate increased flexibility in the labour market. The government is now considering the proposal of the Blaalid Committee on Private Employment Services and the decoration of labour renting and hiring legislation. We aim to present proposals for changes to the law on employment services and unemployment in May this year. Increased international integration and liberalisation of world trade have contributed to increased cross-border capital flows. The strong growth in foreign direct investment worldwide since the 1980s is a good indication of this. However, growth in direct investment has been lower in Norway than on a global basis. The Committee stresses in its position that we must strive to be at the forefront of international competition and points to the need for a ‘Norway Localisation Commission’. This is fully in line with the government's policy, and we are constantly working to ensure that Norway appears to be an attractive country to invest in for both Norwegian and foreign investors. In the near future, we will set up a Commission to discuss long-term employment strategies based on high value creation in Norway. We have just started work on comparing the tax rules in the Nordic region. In order to exploit the opportunities offered by a more globalised economy, we are also working to further develop the EEA Agreement and our cooperation with the EU in favour of Norwegian business, and we are preparing for a new round of negotiations in the WTO. I would like to end by reminding you that the overall objective of business policy is to create values that allow a welfare society for the whole population. Everything suggests that the active population will decline in the future, so that each of us has to create greater values than today. And an ever-increasing part of the values must come in businesses and in industries that are today small, or that are not yet there. I am sure that if we follow the broad lines and principles proposed by the Government, to which the Committee has given its assent, the starting point will be the best for getting an innovative Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1006	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1009	I would like to point out that the Council of State referred to pending cases when this is the case with the liberalisation of work time and the rules for the hire and hire of workers. In other contexts, both the government councils and others from the government parties have supported these ideas, and it might have been interesting to hear how the government councils view them. What has also been included as an element is that one has opened up for increased labour migration to Norway. And then I'd like to ask, what is the answer to the 60,000 - 70 000 who are still unemployed, the 130, or 300 who are now getting leave or being laid off, and the thousands who are likely to get notice of it in time? There is little help in getting more liberal working hours and other arrangements for renting. On that side, I thought the initiative was very poor. What the government has done is to reduce labour market measures, and they have reduced support to the tools and thus to the enterprise advisory service, which, in cooperation with the labour market seat, has often provided established services to people who need additional assistance in the start-up phase, and they have given many of these jobs. How are they supposed to get help now? And then I have to ask: would the Minister of Industry really have written this business message as it is now, if he had written it today? It's been a long time since the work started, and I'm surprised there's no further recognition that things have changed in the year since it came. And then I want to challenge the Minister of Industry – since there is no line change after others but him – on my proposal to think hard and invite all parties to work together instead of criticising each other, to go further and to prevent more people becoming unemployed. Is that a good idea?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1018	I'll try to take this continuously. First to the working time regulations. A follow-up to the proposal of the Blaalid Committee for an embellishment in terms of renting and employment services will come from the Government in the course of May. As we know, it was a selection that came to quite a broad compromise, not only because the employer is concerned with getting more flexibility in his labour force, but simply because the individual experiences a new labour market and new personal and individual needs that are different and that also makes employees report a clear need for greater flexibility. Telemuting is a good example of the need to renew this. We go into a period where we may have reason to fear that unemployment can increase. Many might suggest that especially the third quarter could become such a period. I share the concern expressed by the representative Ausdal Starrfelt. We heard the Minister of Finance in the spontaneous Question Time on Wednesday saying that today's March figure was 59 000 unemployed. There is still a low level, and much lower than the many warned us about when there was a lack of policies in the labour market, started here in the Grand Duchy just before Christmas, because the labour market has shown a considerable degree of flexibility and ability to take up unemployment. But unemployment may seem to be increasing, especially in demarcated sectors such as shipbuilding and construction. I even had a meeting with the construction industry yesterday, otherwise there is a very large business area in Norway, with a gross turnover of NOK 180 billion, which sees an increase in unemployment. They suggested a figure of 7,000 to 9,000 during this year, but it's a lot less than you feared a short time ago, because you see positive signs. The notification has now been on the Committee since May last year. It is so fast in this area that we have to admit that it is almost difficult to follow in the turns when the procedure takes so long. And I'm very pleased with the soft pre- Easter mood and the invitation to do. The Minister of Economic Affairs has first and foremost experienced strong criticism, not least from the representatives of Ausdal Starrfelt and the Labour Party during the last year. Then there's a new line and an invitation to actually cooperate in a lot of areas, I'll of course accept it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1027	I noticed that the representative Ausdal Starrfelt did not get an answer to all his questions, but it was not that easy to do it in two minutes. In particular, there is one question: labour immigration to Norway. It is an inter-ministerial sample that has provided a position recommending increased labour migration for unskilled people, among others, and on a more general basis outside the Nordic region and the EEA area, i.e. remote-cultural immigrants. I am pleased to note that the Workers' Party has followed the LO line in its comments in the setting and would like to give a different priority to this interministerial sample. So there is a majority in the United Kingdom to avoid opening up more labour and changing the rules on immigration stoppages. But my question goes on something else. This is the part of the nutrition notification that concerns the tourism industry, where we know that there is now a strong decrease in growth here in Norway. We know that NORTRA, the body that markets Norwegian travel life internationally, is down with broken back because of leadership flight and alleged incompetence, and very many of the customers are dissatisfied with the development. There are 130 000 annual works here, and everyone knows that Norway needs more legs to stand on in the future in value creation. The size granted the current year 82 million. kr to NORTRA, and there are many in the tourism industry who now demand that the Council of State contribute to the resolution of the imbalances that have arisen. So my question to the Council of State is, what is the Ministry preparing to get the most out of these public funds that are being allocated where there is now a worrying development?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1036	I admit that I did not have the right to answer the question of labour immigration to Norway. But then the next replicator, the representative Hedstrom, got an opportunity to remind me of that, and I would like to comment on that. The government had an interesting meeting yesterday — and there has been a lot to talk about — in the Forum on Value Creation, which sees some of the industrial challenges in the next 15-20 years. Although, in the short term today, we are concerned with the issues of short-term economic problems and the opportunities for increased unemployment in certain industries – and we have to deal with this in the short term – the long-term challenges facing all industries are how to obtain labour and skilled labour in the future, in a situation where there will be shortages, and there will be great competition. Ordinary projections of the situation suggest that in the course of 15-20 years more than half of all our young people will undertake higher education. They will require a labour market adapted to what they have learned. This will require a major shift, and will be a national task in the future. This is a change of pace in our national economic thinking. While in this century we have always, especially in the post-war period, had a lot of access to labour that can be shifted between industries to more labour-productive industries, we will now find ourselves in a situation where there is a shortage of labour. And it's a national task to find an optimal use of the main scarcity factor, namely competent labour. This means that we need to think new things, not only in business policy, but also in overall national economic governance. Because it doesn't last in the future just to have a high level of employment, we need to have a high level of employment based on a very high value creation, which will also replace large, light-wine oil revenues. It's a huge challenge. Then I will strongly reject that NORTRA is lying with its broken back. It's in a significant transition. It is tough management that has to be taken into account in a situation where Storting's appropriations have made NORTRA less money to travel with. This follows the government closely. We have recently appointed a new Chairman of NORTRA, former Minister of Finance Arne Skauge, with whom the Council of State has an ongoing dialogue, and will also have a future, to ensure that NORTRA becomes the tool that the diverse travel industry needs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1048	We also have in spring and winter from among others. The state councils of Enger Lahnstein, Svarstad Haugland and now actually also the Enoch heard the record, which is often used when they are to double communicate at best, about where the point of intersection of reason lies, namely between the centre and the Workers' Party. And then it tends to go on these three phrases: district policy, distribution and international solidarity. It's like where the big one is. Sponheim said in his post that the Enterprise Communication is a strategic message, with an overall strategy, and I'll give it the honor that there's a lot of sense in the strategy that's been put there. As I also said in my post: if it's just being followed up, I think this is good. Governments indicated where this would be followed, mainly in relation to individual annual budgets. Now we've heard the Workers' Party here. The last thing they've started with is this partnership in industrial policy. The position of the Labour Party in individual cases is well known from the budgetary procedure last year, and those positions are not much sought-after in business. I could imagine asking Sponheim at what point of intersection he thinks it would be easiest to implement the strategy contained in the message, whether it's at the same intersection as Enger Lahnstein and Svarstad Haugland refer to when they're talking about international solidarity and a little bit of other diffuse affairs. Where does Sponheim think it would be easiest to implement a business-friendly policy – at the intersection between the Right and the Advance Party, or with a social-democratic party, which has an endless appetite for public ownership, and they are even in the European leadership here? That's why it might have been a bit pathetic when former government councillor Knudsen mentioned the three big ones in Europe in a previous post, and got hurt to take along with Jagland. I would like an answer to what is the Minister of Industry's view of intersection.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1061	The most important thing for a government is to get a majority in this room and achieve results. That's why it's kind of the irony of fate that while the Storting is now discussing industrial policy into a new century, we also see that the crown once again falls back to its initial rent, and thus the assumptions are set for something that may be one of the most important things for businesses in the short term, namely through interest rates to get a cost level adapted to our competitors out there. This has been achieved by the Government through a fiscal policy, in an agreement between the Right and the Advance Party. There is no doubt that this may be the most important contribution in this half-year of Norwegian industrial policy. I think it must be allowed to be so direct and honest to say it on these issues, the questions of the tightness of the budgets, the sober use of public money adapted to the reality of the enterprises, which are to bear the costs, live out. With regard to many of these individual measures, both in the small and large industrial policy, we know that the good majority solutions exist between the centre and the Right and the Progress Party. Looks like we've got a long time. Something I might think of former State Council Grete Knudsen, now a big representative, who was eager to compare with Ireland and Finland, etc. in the case of framework conditions, it should be borne in mind that these parties, namely the Centre and the Right and the Advance Party, have prepared the basis for separate Norwegian framework conditions within the maritime industries, which are the most acute international economic area we have. This means, among other things: that today we have a Minister for Maritime Affairs who has a good maritime policy on the basis of his own policy and not a policy pursued. That there are other important areas of policy where there are other interesting and important intersections, I have also stressed many times. In the area of welfare policy and other key areas, rural policy and policy on distribution, there is also an important point of intersection between the Centre and the Workers' Party. If one sums up all of these intersections, the point of intersection is actually not between the center and other parts, but between the center.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1070	This was very beautiful about knowledge and competence. In fact, I agree with all that the Council of State said about this area. But then the question becomes, What conclusions does he draw from the beautiful, fine words? There, with the proposal we have launched today, we have tried to help him draw a conclusion. If we compare ourselves with some other countries it's natural to compare ourselves with, we know, as I said in my post, that Norway has a low share in research efforts measured against gross domestic product. So, compared to the countries we're going to compete with, those that have the same cost level as us, and who are our competitors internationally, we have a low research effort. So my question to the Council of State is, how will he then follow up and manage to increase the investment in research? The Council of State agrees with our proposal, which states that, in the coming years, we should have the objective of getting up at least at the level of the average for OECD countries. It's really a pretty modest effort if we look at research efforts Sweden and other countries. So my question is, wouldn't it be desirable for the Council of State to get the drag as it would be if a majority of the Stortinge decided a plan so that in the next few years we would be able to reach this level? That's my question to the Council of State, that's whether he wants the Grandfather's drag help to get a real commitment to research.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1079	Let me begin by expressing the greatest respect for the representative, Mr Rikvam, for an honest and real effort for what may be one of the most important things we can do in the field of business policy, namely to focus on and focus on education and research. I'm actually going to be so modest as to say that perhaps the most important ‘Minister of Industry’ in a government is the Minister of Research and Education, as much as the Minister of Industry. It has to do with our long-term business policy. And if it had been up to me and my party, we would like to free ourselves a lot from the fiscal realities and move quite a lot of money over in this area. But it is that when you get into government, you can't let go of everything you have in your hands to get hold of anything else. One has to finance the transition in a way, and therefore it is important to keep the cost level in focus and have a tight fiscal policy, which today means that we have the crown where it will be left. That is what we have to take into account in a government. That doesn't mean we have to rotate the course in order to eventually get more money into this area. That's why the government will be coming in a few days with its big message on research. There are just the questions – and the ambitions – raised by the representative Rikam here in the government’s policy. So asking for a plan for how to do this is not necessary. The government has already come so far with this that we are willing to present it to the Storting quite soon. That is why I see no reason why this proposal should be adopted today, because the Government is coming into this in every way. And the figures presented by the representative Rikham in a previous post today, what it takes to get up to the OECD average level, are correct. 5 billion kroner in a quality or level increase in our efforts we need to get there. And we think this has to happen something like this: in a two-way between the companies and the public, as the representative Rikamm said.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1090	It's easy to figure out where the government likes it best, just in the center. But in the center of a whirlwind, it's never very good to be, there's a throw from side to side. And that's probably the situation for the government pretty much. The Council of State pointed out the importance of cooperation between the private and the public when it comes to research and education, and that is, of course, something we did. So all of a sudden when it comes to issues of risk capital for both beginners and others, the tone is a whole different one. I'm totally overconfident that if the state, together with the private sector, does not do its job to bring forward new products and new businesses, this government will never be able to bring forward the value creation that will take place in the years to come, to cover the value creation gap that we all see. I will again challenge the Council of State. Is it really that there is an ideological barrier in the government to using the state more actively to produce new products and new businesses? The Council of State itself was at the Forum on Value Creation and the analysis they have of what is going to happen to new businesses in the years to come. Does the Government and the Council of State really believe that in private business – in a globalised economy where one can place the money where they throw the most – there will be enough capital to get on the rails all the new businesses we need?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1099	I think the representative Opseth had a good line – I agreed very much on what he said. The government's policy is precisely to find the good cooperation solutions between the state and the private to bring about innovation. We are not interested in defining innovation as creating new words about old policies, but in getting real and new ways to do this, based on a clear division of roles. It is not that this government is not concerned with setting up and bringing state capital where there is obvious market failure, where no private do the job, but where it is necessary for society to do the job. We see that in particular when it comes to venture capital. In fact, it was this government's opposition parties that imposed the government in which Opseth put in, the defeat of having to set up the Seed Capital Scheme, precisely on the basis of the idea of creating what some would call partnership, find a cooperative solution in which the state takes on the job where there is market failure, where the risk is too high for private investment to be made, but where society depends on taking a necessary risk, especially in the new technology areas. Therefore, it is precisely the government's policy to use the state actively where there is a manifest market failure. Among other things, we have in the current year's budget, regional seed capital schemes increased, based on a model of 49 pst. State risk relief and 51 pst. private. And we've had an impact on a new system that I think we need to think a lot more about: how are we going to stimulate researchers, technology developers, etc. in our academic environments to commercialise their products? That's the kind of thinking. But to think in the direction of using heavy state capital where the ordinary capital market is doing the job, I don't think I and the Government are modern thinking. That kind of thinking is probably a few years back in time. We need to transfer the capital to the risk areas, and the government does.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1110	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1113	The broad industrial policy pursued in the short and longer term will be decisive for employment, value creation and, hence, the well-being of the years to come. It's a shame to say that the business message we're discussing today is responding to or seeing the way out of the challenges we're facing. The transition from the industrial community to the knowledge society is ragingly rapid. It requires action, not passivity – as we can now see from the Minister of Industry – or even opposition to visions that are forward-looking. The business message describes the challenges we have, in a reasonable way, but is almost free to think about how we're going to solve the challenges in the next millennium. To say – as the representative Apelthun Seele said – that the Government is in the forefront must be a pious wish more than a reality. Everyone sees that the biggest challenges are covering an increasing value-creating gap as well as a huge gap in competence. If we are to be able to develop the welfare society, the value creation of the mainland industry must cover the loss of reduced oil revenues. Yes, even if oil revenues were to increase again due to an increase in the oil price or new major findings on the Norwegian base, we should arrange to make ourselves less oil dependent. We can't leave this kind of mobilisation to business alone. The state must be involved in an industrial venture in all fields. The bet must start everything in the school. From elementary school to university, creating one's own workplace has to be given a much larger place. Throughout the course, students are focused on choosing jobs and becoming wage-earners. I also want to – as strongly as I can – warn against depriving the professional courses of study. Continuing education will be most decisive if we are to be able to fill the gap in competence. The state should be a driver, but it's not. After all, it is private, like IT-Fornebu, who takes up the challenge. Research is investing in the future. Incentives to increase research by the state in partnership with private individuals are investment for the benefit of our children; it is a cost of ‘acquisition of income’. Finland and Iceland have seen that, and we see the results. Future generations will suffer if we don't invest in the nutrition research anymore. The Research Council will still have to have a central place. The proposal for a research fund must look in such a light. In many small and medium-sized enterprises, product development is also widespread and needs to be stimulated. Ideas must also be used for product. We need to be far better at using the research results. We have to recognise that it is risky and that it takes time to bring product ideas from idea to product that people want to buy. In this area, the state must be much more active than today. One can start by targeting the schemes that we already have, but one also has to change the arrangements that make the state houses when the results come. We must have partnership between private and state in this area as well. The results will not come without good marketing both at home and abroad. If the forest of small and medium-sized enterprises is to have market space in the international market for its product or services, the Export Council must become powerful and aggressive as a support player in the marketing process. All other Norwegian public organisations out there must have target formulations that underline the task; they must participate in helping Norwegian business. Norway is a country facing particular challenges. The distance disadvantages are none of those that draw into doubt. It's far more forward-looking to invest to reduce these disadvantages than to mitigate them. A better and faster infrastructure is more targeted than taking corrective action. We also see a development where Norway is becoming a branch country. There are probably more reasons for that, but we have to take the challenges seriously. The framework conditions here should not differ significantly from those of Finns in countries where Norwegian industry competes. We should be glad that the state is the owner of strategically important companies. It ensures establishment in Norway. The state, as a major minority owner in several strategically important activities, as well as in the world, must not face ideological barriers. The representative Gabrielsen and Right have clearly shown that there are such barriers when they try to ridicule a cooperation between the state and private in this area. As owners, the country should be long-term and patient, but also willing to take significant risks, especially in start-ups. It is primarily in the last area that the Workers' Party's proposal for an investment fund of DKK 5 billion is to be seen in cooperation with private individuals, where private individuals are to have a multiple. It is in this area that these resources will be used. If the forest of small and medium-sized enterprises is to flourish, private and public authorities will have to take action to raise enough risk capital in this country. I'm glad that State Council Sponheim so clearly expressed such a vision in the exchange of lines that we had. It asks that we find ourselves together in this important area. It has been claimed from a government-designated selection that enterprise and district policies are not consistent. What is the basis and what assessments a person makes when he comes to such a conclusion, I wonder. A good business policy is also a good district policy, and vice versa. It's actually so already today that it's in the district most of the industrial value creation happens. Innovation is also taking place in the many small and medium-sized enterprises in the districts. This one has to be stimulated. I am also sure that the IT industry will also speed up innovation in the districts. New technologies are being used at the same time in the districts as elsewhere in the country. However, in this area too, the State should be a party. It is on the basis of this Workers' Party that a technology fund will be set up. State won't bet, don't expect private to set up some risk in a project. I have to admit that I am eight-full for the future – not for lack of initiative from companies, but for lack of understanding and willingness from the Government to play with business. The industry had great expectations of the government council Sponheim. Until now, there's not much to care about. It is not possible to talk to results; action is required. When is the action coming? I wonder. State council Sponheim has in the months to come, a far-off opportunity to show its power of action. A national IT centre on Fornebu of international format is to invest in the future. It could bring product ideas to the fore and enhance the competence of the business community. The father is that the Minister of Industry also sees it in this matter as otherwise: small is good! I hope the selection that has been reduced is visionary enough.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1158	I am a little surprised at how both the government parties and the Labour Party meet the challenges we face today in relation to the treatment of the business message. Today’s debate does not lead to any other cause than relatively non-committal and benevolent formulations around the vast majority of situations encountered. This is somewhat worrying in a situation that several others have been facing, where we see Norwegian export shares of total world trade falling considerably, where the oil dependency in the Norwegian economy is even greater today than it has ever been in Norwegian modern history. In fact, we are still in the situation that we appear to be too much commodity supplier, because we see that to a much greater extent than necessary, the rest of the world is taking part in the rent, which we should have taken more care of ourselves. We are looking at oil exports, gas exports, power, fish, and in this debate we are not going to go into the context that is important in order to see how we can be more happy with the Norwegian raw materials in the processing process. Questions about the EU, the WTO, etc. does not have a central place in this debate. It is also worrying that we do not look more closely at the framework conditions we have to offer the creative working life in Norway, after we have been through a period of tripling interest costs, where we have had a historical wage settlement that has brought the opportunities for growth and development more steps back for the creative working life. That's when we see that the Workers' Party in the opposition chooses to go back to old stuff. I see the context in the debate, where the Labour Party and the LO now appear in a new theme. The National Government of the Workers' Party last Monday presented its so-called coastal plan, and I see the statements of the LO in connection with the nutrition notification. I would like to quote three statements from LO, which go on this by using funds in creative work in Norway. And of course, it's the People's Security Fund and the Oil Fund that are going to be attacked first. With reference to the oil fund, LO says: ‘We’ll see it as an advantage if you can spend some money more strategically. They should be used to strengthen Norwegian business where this is poorly developed’. And they say, "Oh, my God. ‘This may be done by using the funds for strategic investment in Norwegian competitive business.’ My last quote is that LO says: ‘The new policy must be based on a partnership between the private and State sectors as was the case in the early phase of the industrialisation of Norway in the mid-century.’ That's when Grete Knudsen says in the debate that the Right is not in the new era. What kind of debate is this in all the countries of the world? You refer yourself to a situation that dates back 200 years, and then you allow yourself in the food debate to say that the Right is not in the new era. Furthermore, with reference to the three major drivers in Europe, Schröder, Blair and Jagland, reference is made to the need for more state intervention; there is a greater need to use state funds to increase the share of state investment and business in Norwegian business. I believe that the Workers' Party, if they take the trouble of talking more to Schröder and Blair, will discover that both Schröder and Blair are going the very opposite way to what the Workers' Party is doing in today's debate. It must be a symptom that something is wrong with industrial policy here in the country when we see that the conditions of the creative working life and the conditions of private capital have become so poor that too many of those who are locomotives in Norwegian business choose to localize outside the country's borders. Then the answer is not to refer to solutions that are 200 years old. Instead, what should better facilitate Norwegian business and development should be taken into account. Finally, the representative, Opseth, was right in one respect: when he refers to the Forum on Value Creation, which then goes to those degrees that span the cards when they say that there is a contradiction between industrial policy and district policy. That is said in a situation where 94 pst. Norwegian exports come from so-called District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1189	Let me first repeat to the representative Ivar Kristiansen that it is obvious that he has not understood what the future needs in business. And I also have to say that I'm a little worried. It's a little pity on my good colleague on the north bench, for it seems to me that he is lying awake at night and does not dare to close his eyes of fear that the Workers' Party and the LO will lie under his bed and come and take him if he blunders for a moment. It is said that in such a debate as this one, to some extent, there is more to polemics about where the individual parties are located in the landscape than about the means and challenges ahead. I think we should be able to arrive at a very high level of common good in terms of the challenges we are looking forward to. What is quite a clear move is that the food debate has drifted away from roads, State aid, etc., and that skills may become the most important element of industrial development in Norway. In fact, a debate on the notification of the enterprise largely recalls the debates on the education system in Norway. These two spheres of society are woven together, and that's good. Because what we see is that competence is increasingly sought at all levels. Advanced technology is being put in place everywhere, and it is soon not a job that you can have without having relatively high skills and without mastering much of the new technology that is coming. That means that our educational institutions are facing a completely new reality. It's no longer like starting high school when you're 16 and going out when you're 19, so either going out to work or going on to college and staying there until you're 22. You're never in an educational institution again. Things become much more flexible, institutions need to tailor and adapt to the needs of the individual much more. The Labour Party has a policy to ensure that our public education institutions, especially higher education institutions, are able to meet the new challenges of continuing education. In this case, a red tape must be carried out both in the recognition system of the higher education institutions and in the management system in such a way that they do not become cumbersome institutions that are overlooked by private individuals when business and social life are also in demand for more skills. We also need to ensure a much greater impact of business and society on the policies to be pursued in higher education and in universities. That's why we want a strengthened external representation in the boards of colleges and universities, so that social contacts get better, and that these institutions don't become independent nations that lie on a pile and run on what they think is important themselves, and don't have contact with society. It is also very important that we do something to bring the competence into the districts. Decentralised education must become a field of activity in order to ensure that even those who do not live in the main centres, those who do not live in the largest cities, have access to the new competence, which is essential for the proper development of the business world. In this context, we have also partially adopted a reform of continuing training which is crucial for the business community in Norway. All enterprises will need their workers to have a high level of competence. Everything from engineers, civil engineers and researchers to skilled workers must have good competence in what they do. If you don't want to lose in international competition. To ensure that such a reform, such a system, comes up and stands, everyone has to bear the burden. Both industry, workers and the state must be involved – all of them must contribute to a promise of continuing education and training, so that everyone can participate in raising their skills in society. Then it is strange for me to read in the setting that the right-wing parties – the Right-wing Party and the Advance Party – are against having a statutory leave system so that workers can leave the labour market for periods of time to update and fill up their skills. It reminds me a bit of a suspicion of the workers that they are still living in the old rhetoric: if the employees decide for themselves, it is in a way that guitar course and lefsbaking will dominate. I believe that it is an attitude that one must soon be able to abandon. It is also sad that the Government is somewhat crooked by this reform. There's nothing particularly driven by the effort. There remains to be seen what they bring out of money, how the settlement is going to be, but I'm afraid they haven't taken this strongly enough inward, and if the Storing doesn't get the reform in place, there may be problems in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1213	The four pillars of the government under a forward-looking and comprehensive industrial policy have been widely welcomed in the Business Committee. It is positive and, of course, also a strength for the further follow-up to the framework conditions. A sound economic policy is a prerequisite for an active industrial policy. The level of interest, prices and exchange rates also determines by far the extent of initial investment and further development in enterprises. The recent developments in oil prices and the turmoil in international currency and stock markets clearly show how our open, oil-dependent economy has been priced and events in other parts of the world that we do not have control of. The Norwegian economy is strongly commodity-based. We are good at petroleum, fish, wood and metals. In these areas, we are among the foremost in the world. However, there are products that are particularly exposed to fluctuations in the economic cycle, and it therefore represents an additional challenge for the Norwegian economy. In order to make the country less dependent on the petroleum sector, we need to facilitate a resilient business that can withstand an international competitive surface. This will increasingly be the challenge for SMEs too in the future, not just for the large groups. Most farms in Norway are small. Enterprise policy must therefore be based on the situation and needs of small enterprises in order to stimulate investment and innovation. The competitiveness of Norway depends on generally good framework conditions, but perhaps primarily on the availability of skilled and attractive labour. The NHO has presented a so-called 1998 competition survey, one of which, for the first time, tries to place Norway in relation to other countries in 11 areas of competition which are of importance for companies to make their localisation choices. Secondly, the movement between countries in terms of unequal conditions of competition is measured. That's interesting reading. There are three red lamps here: predictability in the Norwegian economy has been reduced, wage growth has been too high, and we have also come out poorly in terms of innovation, research and development. Responsibility for such a situation may have to be shared between different actors. The main question, however, is what we can now do to improve the 1999 competition survey. A key step is then to invest in attractive labour with a high level of competence as an important competitive advantage in the future. It demands our education system, school and higher education. There have been major reforms in the school system, and I believe we have a basis for saying that the Norwegian school system is well compared to most other countries. Nevertheless, we are struggling with a poor indoor climate, a lack of skilled labour, a lack of PC equipment, and not least a lack of teachers with the skills to use IT in teaching. So there are still clear challenges here. We have to bet on higher education. Prior to IT, 835 new places of study were set up in 1998 and an additional 515 were added in 1999. This is an important and proper bet. At the same time, I believe that we need to invest more in the opportunities offered by an enterprise-wide training in the area of skills enhancement. A few words about the petroleum sector: the newspapers are now drawing a picture of a petroleum sector in crisis. Nevertheless, in the last two years these companies have increased staffing by more than the staffings now announced. But the signals we are receiving now are alarming, not only for the oil companies, but also – not least – for the supplier industry, which has to re-apply if new projects do not arrive in a short time. It is therefore necessary to consider how this situation can be addressed actively. I would like to mention that the development of new technological solutions is an important prerequisite for success. This is a responsibility that the industry itself must take. In addition, better forms of cooperation and organisation are needed, which must be worked through by industry itself and the social partners. The government has also announced that it will assess whether the framework conditions for this industry can be improved. We have to look at the state's direct involvement on the base, i.e. Share of fields and simplifications in legislation for the development of individual fields. The tax and tax systems will also be assessed by the Government in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1230	I notice the enormous proposal from the representative Gabrielsen to the Sponheim Council in a row here, and how the Council of State happily accepted it. But when the Council of State gives the impression that being willing to tighten the budget is what allies these parties to the Workers' Party, I must at least remember, before the priest blesses the marriage, that the Labour Party has provided far more stringent budgets than the Centre Party has, and that was actually much less taxes for business. But then to the business message, as many have said, provides a broad description of trends and problem settings. However, it did not seem quite as if the Government has taken over the paradigm shift that we are in, and the whole new challenges that this poses to us. Capital is becoming more international, technology is changing production and communication, and in many ways the social organisation is also sticking to technology. In the truth, we're from being in the industrial community getting far into the knowledge society. A message to be seen over the next thousand years should therefore propose more solutions and instruments to meet the entirely new challenges of the knowledge society. We are faced with some political choices, and this may be where the divides also go in Norwegian policy. Should we try to steer progress towards some political, value-based goals, or is it impossible? Do we want to play the free forces? We need to assess value neutrality towards choosing and prioritizing – sector thinking against soundness, competition against cooperation, governance and private in clearly different roles towards public-private partnerships. And to the representative Gabrielsen: Right should notice that one actually also sees a trend in traditional capitalist, market-liberalist countries in the direction of a now tying to increase partnership. Then the representative can set a line for every time the expression is used, or move on to a sphere in the marble frame -- that's perhaps what the Right is most likely to do, but I think that this outline has to be right-wing in the future. I believe that a constructive partnership between private capital and government governance is right and necessary. The goal must be to create a healthy interaction between public governance and business. It is therefore correct and important what the Workers' Party has done in the past, which goes to state/private investment companies and technology funds. Norway's challenge is to free itself from being dependent on oil, freeing itself from commodity clamps. We must therefore focus strongly and in the long term on the development of new knowledge-based business, which can also build up, further develop and modernise traditional industries. The LO and NHO Action Plan on Competences states that: ‘Competence is the main single factor in the further development of business and employment in Norway, and thus also in the development of the welfare society. Updated competence is necessary for the competitiveness of enterprises and for individuals to have the competence to demand the labour market.» Business policy has become a knowledge policy, as so many have said before. When there seemed to be such a broad understanding of exactly this – from LO to NHO and from different political points of view – why not try to achieve maximum levels of cooperation between state and private to meet these challenges, to maximum stimulate knowledge-based business in regions and in central areas, in order to prevent the flagging of capital and competences? But no, when the possibility is there to create a proper national IT and knowledge centre that means something international, precisely through cooperation between willing private capital and state, yes, then the Right and Government Party are doing everything they can to reduce this to something that cannot compete for international competence and capital, and cannot be large and strong enough to provide the development environment in the region and district elements they need, just to be and evolve where they are. It is unlikely to take what the government is doing, if a real goal is to meet the needs of the knowledge society and of the knowledge-based business.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1248	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1251	Like many others, I'm very concerned about what we can do to slow down and preferably stop the relocation from the districts. The objective of preventing this development must be an important premise when we develop the industrial policy to be introduced into the new century. In fact, industry policy will be absolutely decisive. Without stable jobs in a competitive business, we will have no chance of success. It must also be a prerequisite for local natural resources to provide jobs locally. This must be true whether we are talking about electricity, fishing, agriculture, mining or oil and gas. The framework and infrastructure must be set up to this end. Outside Helgeland, for example. already made gas findings, and the optimism regarding drift-worthy findings is high. In this case, the authorities must both contribute to and, if necessary, manage the landings locally, both in view of new industrial developments and possible further eastwards to the market in Sweden and Finland. In this area, too, we need an offensive state attitude and political will. I have noted both the emphasis of the Government and the Committee on the importance of infrastructure for positive economic development, and that is important. If we want to make the best use of the possibilities available, for example: in the aquaculture industry in Northern Ireland, we need to step up efforts in the transport sector. Bottlenecks on the road to the market must be removed. I have not been able to avoid noticing the retired person, not to say the passive attitude of all the other parties that the state should be offensive in terms of continuing training. This is both alarming and frightening. Leaving business initiatives alone, as the Right Party and the Advance Party wish, in my view, will undoubtedly lead to a stagnation. Not thus said that companies should not be liable, but the public should not waive its responsibility. For example, business alone would be never initiated the educational reforms we've had in the last decade. The government has just presented a new biggest communication on energy policy. Although the communication is not sufficiently concrete, it contains many constructive ideas on developments in this area, perhaps particularly in relation to the environment. However, relative to power resources as a basis for industrial development in districts, the communication is particularly diffuse. This is particularly the case in the long term. The government has not adequately demonstrated how to ensure that the power-intensive industry is taken into account. And here we are talking about the large industrial enterprises, which are vital to many communities, and indeed to many regions. It's a good thing that it's going to be on the small units and the small possibilities, but just as little as the voters do with just small parts, society can only deal with small businesses. That means we can't neglect the bigger businesses. Still, we have to act in such a way that cheap electricity is going to have ring-fences where the power is produced, and preferably in larger companies. A short time ago, we had a rather exhilarating debate on IT fornebu. I note today that the whole committee refers to the lack of IT competence. I'm not going to start the Fornebu debate again The fear of state and capital that was expressed at that time must not be allowed to influence industrial policy into the next century. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1266	I have first of all asked for the word to comment on the proposals from SV. Proposal No. 6 votes against the Labour Party. Proposal No. 7 we have a great sense of, but we think it's kind of bombastic when we're now doing the processing of a research message. But as the representative has probably noticed, we have said a lot about research and increased efforts here today, and that means me. In the case of proposal No: 8, we will show that the Workers' Party has not been treated for as long as a Document No. 8-proposal for an IT bet. The government was supposed to come back to this, but they haven't. It may well be that this is a good, concrete proposal, but I would ask the representative, Mr Rikvam, to turn it into a transmission proposal. As an alternative, we will vote against it. I can't do that when I first have the word and see that there are a few minutes left, to make a little visit to the Right, and especially the representative Gabrielsen. Because if there's something I've learned as a female politician for quite a number of years, it's that when someone feels cheated, they use ruling techniques. And a very familiar rule technique is ridicule. That's what Gabrielsen is trying to do to our partner mind. It may be that he feels tricked by the idea and is afraid that we will get an impact on this, but my experience says that using ruling techniques is a rather insecure exercise, and it usually comes back to the person who exercises that kind of technique. So it's right, as the Council pointed out, that at least I've had a softer approach. I have also criticised today, but I have also opened the door for us to think more together. I think it takes time for us to use the forces on it. But I'm going to be a little stunned when I hear how much weight I put on the wide connection, because there's actually some point where the government's party is independent of its notes. I'd like to ask the Council of State, if you don't want to meet the problem around the next turn, to read the comment a little bit more carefully and see the hues of the connection you've got here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1277	Lowering activities is not new. The fact that some activities in some areas have to give up is natural, as a result of the constant change in society. In a town in my state, Sykylven, it was said that for every company that was laid down, two new ones were started. This will increase employment and value creation. As the needs of our modern society change so quickly, it will set great demands for change and renewal. New products and new services will require people with the will and ability to start on a small scale. If this is going to get bigger in Norway, we have to be shut down by strengthening this thinking in our schoolwork. District-active school is an entrance port for this thought. The message from the Christian People's Party in this space is ready. These developments in creating attitudes that lead to entrepreneurship and responsibility for their own work situation shall be reinforced. Small Business Action Plans show that the Government is taking this challenge seriously. Public funding for business activities places great emphasis on representatives from the Workers' Party, and in some areas this is important. However, the possibility of building up equity capital in each enterprise on the basis of its own investment and operations must be the way to finance business development and product development in due time. In my view, the key to a more flexible business is just in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1284	The political vocabulary is currently undergoing a significant process of renewal. It's maybe the most innovative part of it all. That visions have become everyday, is in themselves interesting, but now it is in the air of paradigm shifts and partnership and I soon don't know what, of new conceptual magic. What is the real problem under all these words is, when it comes to the problem, an old and well-known basic political problem, namely the relationship between power and responsibility. If you want to separate power and responsibility from each other and to pulverize responsibilities, this is the way to do it – insisting that public and private actors should as far as possible side by side or run into each other. There is good reason to believe that in the future, too, it will be as it has been in the past, that a political system is healthy when there are clear lines of responsibility, and when there is consistency between power and responsibility. I think this problem is a fundamental problem that we're going to have to deal with in the future, and I can't believe that the Workers' Party is now willing to embark on a new revolution of the state-owned business that most people thought was a late stage in the 1950s and 1960s. This could not be a future-oriented form of policy. I have listened with interest to not least the representative Opseth's warm argument for research and education as the key to future business. I can sign almost every word of what he said in his post. It's just a little shame that the confession has come so late, because the representative Opseth is one of those who have the longest government experience in this room, and who has himself clothed important Council posts. During that period, it seemed true to say that he was occupied by other sectors to a somewhat higher extent than exactly by the research and education sector. After all, in the long period of prosperity we have had since the oil age began in the 1970s, it is the Workers' Party that has been in government responsibility for the longest period of time. When we have ended up there, we are well below average for the OECD countries, it is essentially the responsibility of the Labour Party, because it has been prioritised in this way. What is really the responsibility of the state is to maintain a qualitatively good school system and a qualitatively good research system. There we have serious omissions in our conscience, and that is where we need to put something in place if the state is to fulfil its responsibility to create a future-oriented business climate in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1295	I really asked for the word to make a change to one of my suggestions. But before I do that, in the light of what has been said, I have to remind the assembly that we in Norway are in the situation that we have a high saving rate. The public is responsible for a large proportion of this saving, and this must be based on the oil economy we have in Norway. That's why it becomes a puzzle when the Right makes it a battle cause to reduce public involvement in business policy. What we need is just risk capital that can help create unsafe, but exciting products. Public savings should precisely be used to strengthen Norwegian business both on the ownership side and as foreign capital. It should therefore be natural that the saving of the community is used to develop Norwegian business and that the community is also involved in reaping the return when that industry generates returns. In this way, we can also ensure long-term Norwegian ownership, which will be absolutely necessary to develop Norwegian business and ensure future production here in the country. It becomes almost pathetic when Inge's salary swings in the way that he does. Here is a concrete proposal for research. We have put forward a very concrete proposal that is aimed at more research, we should have as an ambition in a relatively short time to reach the same level as the other OECD countries. So I'm very excited, when we come to the vote, to see how the Right – who appears to be the defender of education and research – will vote in relation to this one concrete proposal. I shall now come to the amendment. It concerns proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox We're doing this to make it easier for the other parties, who have signaled that they agree with the intentions, but it's too difficult to commit in a short three-year period. We therefore delete ‘2002’ and write ‘the coming years’, and then the proposal becomes as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a plan to ensure that Norway is at least at the level of the OECD countries’ averages in terms of R & D efforts measured against GDP in the coming years’.» This is the Right's opportunity to show that research is a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1309	Rolf Reikvam has converted his proposal No. 7, as he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1312	The debate is coming to an end – at least get a faith. There has been a new concept, one might say, and a term has been recycled. I will leave this with paradigm shift, as it came in such close connection with IT Fornebu. One might suspect that the partnership affair has the same origin as the paradigm shift, as we all know where it comes from. When Starrfelt accuses me of using ridicule for this term as a rule technique, I cannot see that it has been necessary to contribute to it. I just suggested at the outset that I assume that partnership is going to be very big on the part of the Workers' Party today, and it has also happened by all of them emphasising it as the big thing. Now, in the rest of the legislation, we have gradually adapted the law so that partnerships and marriages are equalised. I assume that this will continue in the industrial policy that the Workers' Party is now pursuing. And that's exactly what's Right Warning about us going into such individual projects and sedentating a ownership structure. Because there's one thing I'm sure that the business we're going to have in the future doesn't need, it's a dominant state owner. We need a state to organise framework conditions so that we can get private, long-term capital. But if, on the one hand, you destroy the possibility that business can build up private capital, then of course, you come next time and you're going to mourn it all by taking some of the owner billions. Why does Norway have a leading environment in the maritime sector? Of course because we have had a Norwegian maritime environment, by having Norwegian shipping companies owned by Norwegians, driven from Norway. Why, for example, do we have the world’s leading offshore suppliers? It's not just because there are natural assumptions that are better than elsewhere in the country. One has largely had locally anchored ownership. This diffuse state ownership that the Workers' Party is now adding up, I think I can become a scourge for Norwegian business, and I think it can be more of an accident than of benefit. But I sincerely hope that we will be able to avoid getting into the situation that we get a development in business – as the letter from LO Industry says – as at the end of the last century: that the ability of private ownership to sit on ownership becomes less and less because you are taxed in whole. We have to have framework conditions so that we can build up private capital.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1321	I am asking for the floor at the bottom of the debate just to address a matter that was mentioned in the speeches by Mr Opseth and the representative of Kristiansen, and these newspaper leaks that were around the report of the Forum for Increased Value Creation, that there should be a conflict between industrial policy and district policy. Now the report was made public yesterday, at the same time as it was submitted by the forum. Everyone will be able to read it and see that this at all has no root in the report that exists. I think it's important to say that. It is difficult to put back unfairness that comes in the newspapers, but it is important to have it said in this room, not because these two representatives have any other basis than the newspapers, but because it is the reality. This is precisely what this debate has been about, namely that we need an industrial policy that provides the basis for both too high employment and high value creation. The fact that the employment of the future must come into businesses that are profitable for the country and that districts get their fair share of these enterprises is the whole point of this report. I think it is important to say that, in order to give justice to those who have done a good job of creating this discussion base. I am pleased to send this report to the Stortinget and the Business Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1327	It was the representative of the Wage who got me to ask for the word again. It's okay enough to chat with words and expressions, but if the representative Wage – and to the extent that the representative Gabrielsen – feels more satisfied that we call it cooperation, so much for me. It is not the name of the thought and the idea that are decisive, it is the result. There we are quite clearly disunity. There's someone who thinks that we're still, in a globalised economy, where much of the capital we have in this country will be placed abroad because it's going to throw more of it, will have a deficit of capital compared to raising new businesses, and I'm glad that the Sponheim Council has given its assent. Then we get to live with that Right still thinks that the private solves all the best. There's nothing new; they've meant it all along. And they've always been intrigued by what happened in the 1950s and 1960s in Norwegian industry. I would have liked to have seen it if the state had not gone in and built the after-war ÅSV and went in to establish industry in Mo in Rana. But a converted in time, so there's a modern business today. So when one says that what happened in the 1950s and 1960s was failed, one has to think about what had been the option. It's finding a policy that's adapted to each epoch you're inside, which is decisive. And there's the Right Absent. They're supposed to solve most of it in private order, dot. It's just that we're busy having industry and business in all parts of this country. At least we'll have to have a government strategy in this area. For this reason, I am pleased that the Sponheim State Council has now confirmed that the report of the Forum on Value Creation distinguishes industrial policy from district policy. It is, as has been said, a matter of the same nature: nutrition policy is good district policy, and good district policy is good industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1336	It's a classic quote that says it's darkly said it's darkly thought. And what I'm interested in is, of course, not terminology. I'm interested in the basic ambiguity that creates new and confusing terminology. This confusion was very clearly confirmed by the representative of Opseth. It is a fundamental ambiguity in thinking about the relationship between power and responsibility, and in thinking about what is the role of the state, and what is the role of private actors. It is simply misleading when the representative Opseth claims that the Right has never wanted a strong state, and has only been occupied with the private. It's an elementary history falsification. The right has always been concerned with a strong state, but we've been concerned that the state should know its limitations and that it should do its primary tasks properly, before it possibly begins to expand its responsibilities. The reason why we are there and that Norway is facing as great challenges as we do is that the state has failed its primary tasks. When we have a school system that is below the mid-level in OECD countries in areas that are central to industrial development, it is just an expression that, not least during the government periods of the Workers' Party, the country has failed its primary task because it has been so committed to doing all the other tasks. When we have a research system and research investment in Norway that lies miles behind us, for example. our neighbouring country, Finland – despite having had an economic crisis for many, many years now – is a priority, and it is a priority which, at my poor discretion, is insane both in principle and in terms of practical policy. It's based on an optical deception, that we can solve the problems if the state spreads its activity in as many areas as possible and tries to take on as many roles as possible that can best be played by others. What is really the big challenge after many speakers in this debate have talked about the importance of education and research for business development, is that during the rest of this session, we are able to keep up with all the major issues that the Government is going to present: national evaluation system, reform 94 and its evaluation, recruitment to the teaching profession, and not least the research communication. It is in all of these documents that the State should define its responsibilities, not put its responsibilities in place where private operators can do the tasks and, as a general rule, do them significantly better. Finally, just a slight comment on proposal No. 7 from the representative of Rikvam. In all normal circumstances, it would be a transmission proposal, for the Government has actually committed itself in the Adult Declaration to implement this during the current wholesale period. It's already been answered from the Government's side.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1349	I will not claim that this has been a particularly exciting debate. Almost all the views expressed in the debate have been known in advance, and there is so far no news that has been brought to the ground through these hours of debate on the Enterprise Communication. We have the left side and the Workers' Party, which, in some cooperation with the LO, has presented its fund solutions, among others. in the form of a technology fund, and is probably part of the development of a society. Because when I look at the industrial policy pursued by the Government today, which the parties have been involved in the last decade, we have not come up with very many new solutions. If we look at the countries of Western Europe that are now facing industrial development, which attract international groups and innovation, innovation, etc. – among others Ireland – they have a new thinking, they have new visions, etc. I think we should learn a little from them, and that Norwegian politicians and the government should see what is the solution model in some other countries, to get this done. The center's solutions have been clear in the message, which we got back too long, and they have also been in position for quite a long time. And then you have your right hand side with your traditional solutions. The promotion party wants, inter alia: – and has proposed – transferring the funds contained in the oil fund, which will come there, to the People’s Security Fund. We also want to a certain extent to act as a passive investor, by dividing the Social Security Fund into underlying and independent funds. The only news about this debate that I don't think is known outside this house is that it's a political majority not to open up labour immigration to Norway. There will be a signal to the Ministry and to the Interministerial Committee that has now submitted its proposals, which, if the Government chooses to go further with this, will know that there is no majority in the Storting to open up increased labour migration by doing something about the immigration stop rules. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party says this so clearly in its comments, that they have listened to the LO, and we must proceed with caution. We have had a common labour market in the Nordic region since 1954, and from 1 January 1994 we joined the EEA. I'd like to remind you that it's 15-20 million. unemployed persons in the EEA territory, who are likely to be expanded soon. We have enough skills to take off, and there are exceptions in the law today if we need oil engineers or IT engineers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1362	Rolf Rikvam gets the word for a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1365	It's up to everyone to express the confusion that's going on in your head, and I felt enough that the payroll last article was such a situation. In all normal circumstances, this is a transmission proposal, said the representative Wage, and referred to the Waxenås Declaration. The actual situation – I assume that the salary has read the setting – is the following: There are three or four areas of activity. One of these areas of activity is competence and education. No conclusions are drawn from this, but it is emphasised that this should be a field of activity. We're trying to help the government – and we're trying to help the Storting – to draw the conclusion that's the most nearby. And the closest conclusion is to draw is that we should have the ambition to reach an average OECD level in a reasonably short time. That's the normal thing, and that's what we're asking Stortinget to make a decision about, and by doing so, Sponheim, the government council, will give the Drail Help Stortinget can give in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1372	Dra Help can come from the most surprising places. It is clear that what distinguishes Norway most from other countries in research is not primarily public efforts, but private efforts, i.e. in business. It is related to our business structure, and it is related to Norway having extremely poor schemes for enterprises that will invest in research and education. On a number of occasions, the right, together with the Progress Party and sometimes with some other party, has proposed an over-price write-off scheme that stimulates R & D efforts. If this happens, SV's support for it will be a happy progress. I'm almost touched – after the debate yesterday, too, with the newest NATO followers. We just get to collect the support and note that there might be a majority of this in the end. My real concern was to replicate a little to the intense eagerness of the representative Opseth to tell us what a globalized economy has to learn from the experience of the 1950s. I'm not sure if I can fully see the context. But in several articles, the representative Opseth has said that in a new, globalized economy, we have to figure out that capital is moving out of the country, because, as he says, there's going to make more money. And then the state must invest in Norway. Then I add that there is the assumption that tax money will be used to invest in what no one else will invest in. It's a use of tax money I think is basically brand-new as an argument on the part of social democracy. That one can have some inspiration from the 1950s, I admit, it's spent billions of tax dollars that way. But that it was going to be a special challenge for the state of a globalised economy to go into loss-making projects where no one else will do anything, I can hardly understand that. I also find it hard to understand that in a globalized economy, the state has suddenly had a déja-vu experience, that is, something they have never seen before, namely, its ability to find good, profitable projects that no one else has seen, and that it should be the foremost task of the modern state. Experience in this area shows the opposite. [[Foot]] There are a number of countries that have tried to go ahead and let the country see what the others do not see, leaving the country at the forefront of the economic activity. In all countries that have tried it, there has been a steady decline. Social Democratic governments and other governments have tried it, and it's been just as bad every time. No, our view is actually that the state should do more of what it's pretty good at, bet on the public sector, among other things. to improve education and training in a knowledge-based society, and where industry also needs to invest more and more in this. This requires both this and a stronger focus on research, through tax incentives and through public research institutions, universities and others that have slowed down.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1387	Kjell Opseth gets the word for a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1390	I would like to see all the companies that are already up and going because the state has been involved and helped. I am absolutely sure that even in the future it will be so that many companies will not see the light of day without the state helping them forward. I note that Right wants all innovation in small and medium-sized enterprises around the country to take place using only private capital. It's almost so new. They've gone a long way in that direction before, but now they're going even further. Now the state shouldn't be involved at all, and that means we can assume that the Right proposes to wind up the SND at the next crossroads. There is nothing else we claim today than we have said before, that the state must be involved and help small and medium-sized enterprises. Then the Right would like to continue to harp on what happened in the 1950s and 1960s. I ask again: what would be the alternative to building up the Norwegian industry if not the state had also been active with it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1399	I feel the need for a slightly clarifying comment to the representative of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on the mention of proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox What I allowed myself to point out is that this proposal, especially after the wording has changed, is actually at a lower level of ambition than the government statement does, and that therefore, under normal circumstances, it would not be natural to insist on a vote on imposing on the Government an obligation that is less ambitious than that already flagged by the Government that it intends to take on. But if Reikvam insists on maintaining the proposal, and that it should be voted on, it would just be lacking – I would have said – that someone would vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1404	I just want to say first that I agree with the observation made indirectly by Mr Opseth, that it is less profitable to invest in Norway than in most other countries. He himself is an essential contributor to that. He is himself an active promoter of maintaining strange taxes and taxes, which foreign capital does not face in Norway, nor in his home country – property taxes, investment taxes, in some areas also inheritance taxes, since he is particularly concerned about small and medium-sized enterprises. But this is something to do with. Why not take advantage of the wealth we have in this country in relation to other economies to actually provide us with as good conditions of establishment for businesses as in our competitors? In fact, there I see more hope from the Prime Minister, who at least admitted to me in a question-time response a few weeks ago, that there is a reason to look at what is now happening in Denmark, where, among other things, we have to look at what is happening in Denmark. establish tax conditions and attract foreign establishments, partly at the expense of Norway. At least I think that is a recognition of the problem, and then we'll see if it also leads to action – not investigation, but action. The representative Opseth hears what he is often used to believing he hears, when he says that the Right says that the state should not be included. Yes, the country must be involved and provide a basis for innovation. The State shall be active in building good research institutions, good educational institutions, good support schemes, including for research and development, and good tax conditions or conditions of establishment for similar purposes. So the state has to be active with it. But what the state is not suitable for is to lie in front and be the one who picks the winners, who know where to bet, and who takes chances. That's not the country's foremost task. There has never been, and there is no good experience from any country in this area. I have registered that the Workers' Party now believes something different than they thought when the established Petroleum Fund. They speak, among other things: that parts of the petroleum fund are to be used for – not to help small enterprises, as has been said here, but to help large enterprises that need market access outside. For example, there has been talk of buying up retail chains to access Norwegian fish products on German markets. These are examples of truly risky activities. If you want to go in and make Rimi/Rema purchases on the German market, which probably have formidable sizes in relation to our own, you are inside the risk shop that literally can really get lost. But I note that this kind of thinking has not yet reached the Workers' Party by decision, because it is contrary to the decisions of the Workers' Party itself on both the establishment of the Petroleum Fund and, in the past, also on the access of the People's Security Fund to invest in shares.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1416	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfeldt gets the word for a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1420	It's hard not to get upset when Per-Kristian Foss swings at the tame of debates, like today, without having shared anything particularly before. Only two brief notes: The NHO competition survey shows a deterioration in the competitive situation of Norway from 1997 to 1998. It is the government party with support from the Right and the Advance Party that has been responsible for the plurality of important issues. And the second is that it is actually that our draft budget gave much less tax changes. That the government in the next round cooperated with the Right, is another matter, but the Labour Party was actually quite busy with these things relating to the State budget. We also need to look at the situation in other countries. It's not like you can just look at this page, it's going to go together with the costs. We also have to look at that page when we compare. We have said in the setting that when we compare between countries, we have been able to look at only the costs, but in Norway there are some possibilities and fixes one does not necessarily have in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1429	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1443	: No one has asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1459	: No one has asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1469	Case No. 1 has already been processed, and the Storting goes to voting in cases 2 – 6.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1476	During the debate, Mr Sanner put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal from the Party of Advancement and the Right and then the vote will be put to the vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to come to Stortinget with a review of the concept of national interests in development matters with a view to a clearer definition that also takes account of local democracy and district development in sparsely populated areas.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1507	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Sir. Rikvam – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1512	The proposal consists of three parts. We want paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 to be converted into a transmission proposal and that it be voted on at paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1517	The President then understands that paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 of the proposal are converted into a transmission proposal. The wording of the introductory part is amended accordingly. The text of point 2 of the proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government develop a project aimed at the recovery of existing personnel and, through the process of shutting down the Halden reactor, develop expertise in the decommissioning of nuclear reactors.’ The text of point 3 of the proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended to the Government that the HAMMLAB project continue and develop further in order to train primarily Russian personnel in dealing with emergency situations that may arise in a nuclear power plant.’ The President proposes that the two points referred to in the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any responsibilities. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is then put to the vote on paragraph 1 of the proposal, which reads as follows: ‘The tail reactor is shut.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1554	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 2-5, by Ansgar Gabrielsen on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 6-8, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposals Nos. 1 – 5 is included in the vote, while proposals Nos 1 – 5 are included. 6 – 8 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. In the course of the debate, proposal No. 7 amended to replace ‘2000’ by ‘the next few years’. It shall be open to explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1573	I want to make the proposals no. 6 and 8 on transmission proposals and voting on proposal No. 7
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1578	I am listening now that SV is proposing to send out the proposal No. 6 and 8. That's what I thought was right. Now, Minister of the Church, Education and Research, Jon Lilletun will present a research message already in May, and our R & D effort will of course be considered... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1585	The President noted that the explanation of vote should not be a longer statement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1588	It's not supposed to be. It would have been normal to also submit proposal No. 7, with such a foundation. When it is not done, and I assume that there are a number for this proposal, it is of course quite unproblematic also for the centre to vote for this proposal, No. 7th@item: inlistbox And it will be done. Otherwise, I'm going to focus on the minority proposal from the Right and the Advance Party, and on the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1597	The Socialist Left Party's proposals are then voted on first, then on the proposals from the Right, then on the proposal from the Party of Advancement and the Right, and finally on the vote. Proposals Nos. 6 and 8 of the Socialist Left Party have been converted into a transmission proposal and reworded in the introduction accordingly. Proposal No. 6 sounds in modified form: ‘The Government is advised to consider using the investment levy as a cyclical instrument in relation to different industries.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds in modified form: ‘It is recommended that the Government establish a framework for enhancing the competence of the IT community at school. The scheme must include both teachers and students and should be tested as a pilot project in a number of municipalities and schools. A separate fund should be set up and earmarked for the project. The fund shall be built up with funds from the sale of State shares.’;» The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1614	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a plan to ensure that Norway is at least at the level of the OECD countries’ averages over the next few years in terms of R & D efforts measured against GDP.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1628	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 – 5, from the right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision requires the Government to liquidate SND’s risk loan scheme, low-risk loan scheme and SND Invest AS.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to set two annual publication dates for tax regulatory and regulatory changes with implementation two months later.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the VAT compensation scheme for value added tax to municipalities and counties general, so that services can be put out of competition.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up, in the context of the submission of the annual government budgets, a summary of the number of forms and regulations to which industry must relate. The summary should include a comparison with the corresponding figures from the previous year.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1659	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to draw up a phasing-out plan for the investment levy with a view to its liquidation by 2002 at the latest.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-26.ana.ud2510e1901	The President will take this opportunity to wish the representatives a good Easter!
