ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e77	The representatives of Terje Johansen and May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: on the leave of the representative Anne Enger Lahnstein from 11 to 12 January to take part in an information course at the Swedish Defence College from the Workers' Party Group on the leave of the representative Trond Giske from 11 January to 19 January in order to take part in a European study trip under the auspices of the European Union Visitors Programme On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: Tron Erik HovindFor South-Trondelag County: Tore Nordseth
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e122	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e127	I suggest Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e132	Asmund Kristoffersen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e140	The representative, Karin Andersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e143	On behalf of the representative Harald Hove and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to ask the Government to establish a system for a fixed rate of labour migration each year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e149	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended so that the minutes of the Odelstinget meeting will be held tomorrow, Tuesday 21 December at the end of the Grand Meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that this morning's meeting be interrupted for the Grand Stortinges Christmas Day at 0 p.m. 13.45 and set again for the evening meeting at 2.30 p.m. 16:00. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e163	The WTO Ministerial Conference in Seattle ended on 3 December without reaching an agreement. This means that no agreed mandate for a new round of negotiations is yet in place in the WTO. However, progress has been made in several important areas. Both Norwegian and foreign media pay close attention to the Ministerial Conference. Demonstrators who met with tear gas, the introduction of a limited state of emergency, a variety of events directed by non-governmental organisations and ministers who had to be smuggled in and out of the conference centre, were among the headlines that marked the news picture. Then why did the negotiations collapse? There is no simple answer to this question. One important reason was that key actors such as the United States and the EU were this time fragmented in the view of the scope of a new round of negotiations. With the exception of agriculture, the United States and the EU have previously largely shared their views on the development of the GATT and WTO legislation. However, the American positions in Seattle now reflected the domestic political situation in the United States. This led to American involvement in finding solutions in individual areas that were at the heart of the internal debate. The willingness to contribute to an overall solution was small. Another important reason was the growing resistance of developing countries to not being fully involved in the development of the multilateral trading system. Some of the themes were also very controversial. This was not least the case with labour standards. A third point was that the discussions that took place in Geneva prior to the Ministerial Conference did not result in a draft Ministerial Declaration. As a result, valuable negotiation time was lost in Seattle. In addition, the meeting management was weak and not least inadequate. A fourth aspect was the form of work that was used. Negotiations took place largely in informal meetings with limited participation. Norway was among the 30 countries participating in the final deliberations. Some 100 WTO member countries, including a large number of developing countries, were only partially involved in real discussions. The follow-up to Seattle is divided into two parts: the continuation of work on a new round and the need to adjust work forms in the WTO. Let me do the substance questions first. When the Seattle conference was suspended, agriculture, market access for non-agricultural products and important parts of the WTO’s other legislation had been discussed. The demands of developing countries for better implementation and amendment of current agreements had also been discussed. Substantial progress has been made in all areas, particularly in terms of implementation and agriculture. A central objective of the negotiations on the agricultural mandate was to avoid the view that the text was to go too far in one direction or another in relation to Article 20 of the Agriculture Agreement. At the end of the negotiations, there was a draft mandate which provided a significant convergence between the parties. Export-oriented countries, headed by the so-called Cairns Group and the United States, had to make four of their main demands that trade in agricultural products be treated in the long term with all other international trade. Countries emphasising the multifunctional role of agriculture, with Norway, the EU, Switzerland, Japan and Korea at the forefront, had to accept that this concept would not be included in the mandate. The wording of today's agricultural agreement, which mentions non-commercial factors, therefore fell back. The instruments to be allowed to address these factors within the WTO system will be a matter to be decided in the negotiations. The same applies, for example: the question of how far the reform process will go in the next round of negotiations. The informal draft was based on Article 20 of the Agriculture Agreement. At the same time, it provides for negotiations on market access, internal aid and export subsidies. When the discussions were stopped, only Korea and the EU had made specific reservations on rice market access and the gradual elimination of export subsidies respectively. In addition, on the Norwegian side, we had highlighted a reservation related to the formulations of significant, gradual reductions in internal agricultural aid. In view of the key role that agriculture will continue to play in providing the basis for a broad round of negotiations, the draft by Seattle is likely to be brought back into the process at a later stage. In this context, Norway will also assess the situation on the basis of the choices made by our opinion in this area. In particular, this applies to the EU, Switzerland, Japan and Korea. However, it is quite clear that the negotiations on agriculture, which are supposed to start over the new year under the so-called integrated agenda, should be based solely on Article 20 of the Agreement on Agriculture. On the Norwegian side, we are actively committed to making environmental considerations one of the general principles of the negotiations, and that this includes, among other things. must be followed up by the use of environmental analyses. However, it seems difficult to get into the environment as their own negotiating theme. Norway has significant offensive interests in services such as shipping, other maritime services, telecommunications and IT services. Service negotiations are one of the least controversial issues in the WTO. The proposal for a mandate for service negotiations appears to be in line with Norwegian offensive interests. With regard to the agreement on the protection of trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights – TRIPS – no new issues have been raised in relation to what I have previously explained. The agreement presupposes a review of the current rules on patents on biotechnological inventions. Our view is still that we do not want any further restrictions on access to exemption from such inventions from patenting. Discussions led to a satisfactory draft text on market access for non-agricultural products. Japan, South Korea, EU etc. put forward a proposal to address Japan's and South Korea's desire for a separate working group on fish and forest products. The working group is intended to discuss environmental and resource management related to market access for fish and forest. In Seattle, Norway worked actively with other important fishing nations to prevent the establishment of separate fisheries negotiations. The establishment and further development of legislation to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources is fully in line with Norwegian positions. However, we believe that the basic principles of resource management should be discussed in international and regional forums such as FAO and OECD, where issues related to sustainable resource management are already anchored. Norway will therefore work to ensure that fish are negotiated in line with other non-agricultural products and where customs and non-customs issues will be central. The draft text on the revision of the anti-dumping legislation is positive in the Norwegian interest. It will allow for more stringent requirements for the implementation of such measures. Both this proposal and the proposal for a general review of the grant agreement are strongly opposed by the United States. Amongst others, Iceland, New Zealand, Australia, the United States and Norway have submitted a proposal for a separate review of fisheries subsidies. The proposal seems to be getting a lot of excitement. The objective is to abolish subsidies which contribute to overcapacity in fishing and which act as a trade distortor. As regards investment, competition rules and transparency in public acquisitions, it is necessary to expect continued resistance from many developing countries to include them as a new negotiating theme. It is more likely that the discussion in its own working groups will be continued in the first place towards the next ordinary ministerial conference. Only at that time will it be possible to address the issue of negotiations in these areas. One of the most difficult points in the preparation of a new round of negotiations is the discussion on the implementation and enforcement of agreements already concluded. This is something that many developing countries are particularly concerned about, and significant progress has been made in this area. On the issue of zero duty for products from the poorest countries, the discussions have so far not led to a clarification. Norway is among those countries that have sought to promote dialogue in the WTO on basic labour standards. The proposal has met strong resistance. Any proposal to discuss this issue in the WTO is perceived by developing countries as a cover for protectionism. President Clinton entered into a different relationship in Seattle with the opinion that, in the long term, there may be a need for a sanction regime to promote these rights. The opinion clearly had an adverse effect on the possibilities of gaining acceptance in the WTO for setting up a dedicated working group on labour standards. There is no doubt that it will be extremely difficult to promote dialogue in the WTO on these issues. The position of the Member States on the proposals for setting up a separate working group on biotechnology has not yet been finally clarified. Today there is no need for negotiations to begin in the WTO on trade in genetically modified organisms. On the Norwegian side, we are actively working to avoid putting the issue of a working group on biotechnology on the agenda. We will follow up on this work. We will continue to work actively for a comprehensive new round of negotiations. The work in Geneva and especially in Seattle has led to an approach on which we must build. According to the meeting leader in Seattle, the process would be frozen so that the significant progress made in many areas would not be lost, but would be used as a basis for further work at a later stage. However, the working texts have no formal status. It is also not clear which texts can be said to be available. There is considerable uncertainty as to how the further process should be addressed. This will now be discussed in Geneva. The WTO Director-General was given the task of taking the time and place to convene the ministers again. It is most uncertain when such a meeting will take place. The Presidential election in the United States will be here to record. During the Uruguay Round, it was decided to start negotiations on agriculture, services and some aspects of the TRIPS Agreement from the next year. The terms of reference for these negotiations are set out in Article 20 of the WTO Agreement on Agriculture, Article XIX of the Agreement on Services and Article 23(4) of the TRIPS Agreement. However, it is unlikely that there will be real negotiations in any of these areas before a decision on a more extensive negotiating mandate exists, or it may be clear that it is not possible to agree on such a mandate. The Seattle conference demonstrated the weaknesses of the type of work used. We have to learn from what happened. Member States must go through the WTO's work in depth. Text negotiations must take place in a different way. Information needs to be better made available to all WTO member countries. Representatives of both industrialised countries, developing countries and transition economies were involved in the limited discussions and all parts of the world were represented. Nevertheless, the meetings in Seattle showed that the form of work to which it was put cannot be justified. Countries participated only in their own capacity and only in their own interests. They were not present as representatives of their religion or group, and did not report back to anyone. On the other hand, it is difficult for 135 countries to agree on complex and sensitive texts in plenary discussions. We are therefore dependent on discussions in more limited forums. However, the basis must be that all countries are heard and that decisions are still taken by consensus. Firstly, it is important that we look at how the composition of the limited informal groups is done. The Participants must be representative of the different views of the Member States. The second thing we need to ensure is that there are satisfactory procedures for systematic and rapid feedback to the other Member States. We will follow this up in Geneva. Already in Seattle, a proposal for greater transparency in the WTO was put forward by the Norwegian side. We agreed that the WTO General Council should, within a given time, make proposals for improvements both in terms of internal and external transparency. In the external field, we want, for example: examine the possibilities for consensus on greater transparency of documents in the WTO. We are also assessing other possible measures to contribute to greater transparency in the WTO as an organisation. Actions include the holding of a national seminar on voluntary organisations on a broad basis to discuss further follow-up in the light of the experience of Seattle. In addition, we consider inviting representatives of authorities and relevant organisations in a selection of countries with different views and interests to discuss key issues such as transparency, participation and social issues. Both of these events we will seek to hold in Norway in the first half of next year. It is essential that the major trade players, such as the United States and the EU, come to terms with the further development of the WTO as a matter of urgency. This concerns both the scope of a new round of negotiations and the way in which the organisation’s work forms should be adjusted. In the future, we will further develop our bilateral contacts with key actors. This will be particularly important in relation to the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union, but also in relation to the United States and leading developing countries. Continued alliance construction is important. In addition to the EU, we will continue to maintain close contact with Iceland, Switzerland, Japan and Korea. On the fisheries side, we will further develop our contacts with important fishing nations such as Iceland, the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Chile and Thailand. These will be allies to ensure that fish and forest are negotiated in line with other non-agricultural products. This is not the first time that a GATT/WTO ministerial conference has not led to the expected result. However, it is very unfortunate that no agreement was reached in Seattle. We must avoid this undermining the multilateral trading system. The government is committed to continuing discussions in the WTO as soon as possible. However, the Seattle Conference showed that the next Ministerial Conference should be convened only after broad agreement has been reached on key elements of the draft Ministerial Declaration. Our objective is still the same: to reach an agreement on the widest possible round of negotiations. The basis for the further work of the Government on the substantive issues is clear, as expressed in my two previous statements on 25 May and 16 November of this year, and in the subsequent debates in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e235	It will now be opened for a comment round, where one from each batch will be given the opportunity to hold a post of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e238	I consider the foreign minister's statement to be a pure update in relation to what happened and not happened in Seattle. I have no reason to doubt the manner in which the Foreign Minister made it when it was due to reasons why one did not arrive, and his description of what happened in Seattle. In fact, there is nothing new to say from the Labour Party when it comes to the basis for the negotiations, as this was presented by our speakers in the debate some time ago, led by, among other things. Marit Nybakk, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Rita Tveiten. What happened in the different areas there is still our position, the same way that the government uses the same general lines as a base at that time. I don't see what happened in the meantime changes something about this. And it is important, as the Foreign Minister also pointed out, that a search for agreements so that one has an effective international trade organisation and also for investments on the basis that emerged from the debate the last time we had this up. It is – in the same way as it was expressed then – important that one avoids a great fall back into pure self-esteem or unilateralism. The biggest challenge in the international community today is that the big ones start acting on their own, and therefore it is important that a sheep to international organisations that have legislation that also binds the big ones – of course also the small ones, but they will always have to dance after the big ones if one does not have international agreements. This fundamental principle is, in fact, the same as last, and the dilemma is also the same as last: this balance, as it is called, between offensive and defensive interests, as is the case for all countries. It's a question of achieving that balance, and I don't see any reason why we're going to go into this more detail now. The government has freedom of action within the framework discussed last. So there's nothing new to say about the previous statement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e247	One of the main concerns of the collapse of that conference is that it builds up more and more economic contradictions between the United States and the EU. This is no advantage to Norway. I may think that the foreign minister sacrificed little attention to agriculture. There is, of course, one of the main interests of Norway and the Norwegian debate on the WTO. It was said to keep in touch with the EU. I assume that this is because we have common interests with the European Union in this area. It may well be the case first and foremost that we intend to maintain an internal subsidy that is the highest possible, and possibly also that we are interested in the highest possible level of customs protection. So my question is: are we as interested as the EU in subsidised exports that lead to totally abnormal conditions on the world market, which undermine the export potential of developing countries, and also undermine their own domestic production due to the low prices on the world market? And what was the real purpose of highlighting this with the multifunctional role of agriculture? Was there any justification for the specific protection of Norwegian agriculture? Another question is, to what extent did we support the United States in terms of work standards and resistance to child labour? It is a well-known fact that developing countries' main competitiveness is cheap labour, and developing countries have themselves opposed the introduction of such standards. Do we support developing countries in their efforts to maintain their competitiveness in this area, or will we support efforts to introduce standards that will make their exports more expensive and less competitive? Otherwise, I have a feeling that we've been on a collision course with the developing countries both in terms of agriculture and in terms of these labour standards, if what I've read in the press is right. One can also add that the Norwegian efforts to maintain a so-called stable oil price are, in fact, nothing but an attempt to increase oil prices as much as possible, which will go beyond developing countries, which cannot afford to import this oil. It's not unnatural for states to argue, to try to find an honest argument, to promote their own interests. But I don't think we should have any illusion that Norway is anything better than other countries in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e260	Like the chairperson of the Committee, I will not go into the specific parts of the government's negotiating mandate. I have noted that the main lines of the Government's negotiating arrangements regarding a broadest possible basis for the negotiations are established. On the other hand, the analysis and explanation given here by the Minister for Foreign Affairs regarding the reason for the collapse of the negotiations may be a cause for concern. It is obvious here that there can be a significant improvement in the process of improving WTO institutions, learning from what went wrong and improving what the foreign minister called both internal and external transparency. It is obvious that here are aspects of the WTO's work and way of promoting its proposals and communication with those engaged in the important work of the WTO's organisation that can be significantly improved. I'm not going to say anything more than this, but I think a lot of the challenges for this organisation are getting an order of a process that both essentially ensures that one agrees on the legislation, and ensures that these negotiations enter into a framework where there will be good communication between those who negotiate, and with those who follow this process and are affected by the conditions that the organisation is working on and that follow this outside the negotiating room. I have noted that the Government will work actively for a comprehensive new round of negotiations, and that one will place considerable emphasis on getting this new round established as soon as possible. It is clear that it is very unfortunate both for Norway's interests, with our open and comprehensive foreign trade, and for global world trade as such that no agreement was reached in Seattle. I therefore hope that one will succeed better in the next attempt, and that the preparatory work before the new round of negotiations will then be significantly improved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e269	As the Minister for Foreign Affairs also mentioned, the Seattle Round of negotiations has shown that it needs extensive, systematic international cooperation to make the WTO an effective organisation. The collapse of the negotiations shows that there are major interests that dominate the agenda. Today, however, it is also important to remember that it is not the first time that opening negotiations end on a waiting track, which Vollebæk was also involved. Similarly, the Uruguay Round in GATT in 1988 and the ministerial meeting in Brussels in 1990 took place. Breaks in the minds of the type of WTO negotiations that have now entered into are necessary to ensure a balanced process towards consensus. During this break, it is essential that Norway does not be passive in its development. The right will therefore encourage the Government to use this time to carefully and carefully weigh the Norwegian negotiating strategy in order to draw lessons from the experience gained. The most important lesson is, to the right, that Norway must not stand on the outside of the negotiations with excessive demands in the agricultural sector. The right is concerned that there is a perception of Norway as a ‘snoblestone’ in agricultural negotiations, as described in the Financial Times of 4 December this year. It was so descriptive of Norway’s position in Europe that it was the EU’s opening up of a more flexible approach to the use of agricultural aid schemes that left Norway standing alone. This is not in Norway’s interest. It is therefore necessary, in the view of the Right, to work systematically and purposefully to create a different impression of our policy and strategy in that area. The right has an understanding of the disappointment expressed in the fishing industry in the wake of the Seattle negotiations. It would be very harmful for Norwegian interests if the next round followed the built-in agenda. We will not have an impact on our offensive interests in the export of fish, and we will have major problems protecting our own agriculture through price and production support. Therefore, it is again important for Norway not to be passive, but to use the thought gap to reflect on the chosen strategy. Norway’s primary objective must be to achieve a wide-ranging round of negotiations in which we can reach a level playing field for our offensive interests. The Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out at the end of his statement that Norway would actively pursue a new round of negotiations. Yes, we actually assume that from the right, something else would be damaging to the country. But we also see this statement as a mere update of what has happened, and I expect the Government to be well aware of our positions from the previous rounds we have had on the forthcoming WTO negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e284	The collapse of the WTO negotiations in Seattle is not only due to poor preparations, the domestic political situation in the United States and the root of the conference leadership, but also to the fact that one here is dealing with very difficult international negotiations with partly highly conflicting interests. The WTO negotiations affect vital national interests of many of the 135 Member States, and some of the issues, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, are highly controversial. The demonstrations and the debate in Seattle also show that, unlike in the past, one is dealing with a more conscious and critical international opposition and opinion, which negotiators are forced to take greater account of at the next crossroads. The Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement shows that the Government is building on a strategy for the WTO negotiations in which the international trading system is seen in the context of balancing growth and value creation with the situation of developing countries and the more qualitative aspects of trade related to the environment, employment, food security, health, consumer concerns and cultural diversity. However, the perception by some developing countries of a tightening of legislation such as green protectionism, which could weaken the competitiveness of poor countries, must not lead to a loss of vision of the longer-term principles linked to, inter alia, the need to: working standards and the environment. And there may be reason to note that the statement states that Norway will actively support environmental considerations as one of the overall principles of the negotiations. In general, developing countries require special treatment under WTO legislation such as: includes improved market access. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, the question of zero duty on imports from MUL countries has not been clarified through the negotiations that have taken place. With regard to the so-called MUL imports, the Government of the recent agricultural notification has stated that a Norwegian party can join proposals which provide for full duty-free treatment of products from MUL countries, subject to the widespread expansion of industrialised countries and security mechanisms that can provide important national considerations. The statement makes it clear that further negotiations on agriculture are to be conducted on the basis of Article 20 of the Agreement on Agriculture until agreement is reached on a wider round, if any. Article 20 requires further reductions in agricultural aid to be negotiated, taking into account, inter alia: the experience gained in the implementation of the existing agreement and the non-economic conditions. Norway’s objective of agriculture in the WTO context is set out in the St.meld. No 19, as the government presented last Friday, where it says: ‘The Government’s objective is that the outcome of the next WTO round of negotiations will provide Norway with a national framework for the formulation of agricultural policy with the instruments deemed necessary to achieve the objectives of continued active agricultural production across the country.’ It is important that food trade is subject to legislation other than other goods and services, and against this background, it is positive that the so-called Cairns Group, headed by the United States, has celebrated its original main requirement for trade in agricultural products to be treated in the long term with all other international trade. Finally, there is reason to commend the Government for taking concrete initiatives to increase transparency in the WTO and for one to look into the possibilities of reaching agreement on a greater degree of document openness in the WTO. There is also a need for greater transparency in the WTO as an organisation, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out. Such transparency will also contribute to greater understanding of what the WTO is actually doing, and from a democratic point of view it will undoubtedly be a major step forward.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e306	I think it's too early to sum up, whether the temporary breakdown in Seattle is an advantage or a disadvantage. There is clearly a provisional benefit in that it creates a much more international, wide-ranging debate on the key issues at the WTO. It is an advantage because it demonstrated the increasing power of the developing countries in the world, that the United States alone cannot dictate anything as important as the WTO, and that is an advantage because it demonstrated the strength of civil society, the voluntary organizations. On the other hand, it is obviously necessary to meet the growing and, in my view, positive globalisation with international rules and with a better organised world, and that can only be achieved through the WTO. In other words, the WTO process must not be allowed to stop, but must move towards laying down rules on world trade. At the time of this preliminary collapse, there were contrasts of interest between countries and between countries. And Seattle was at the bottom of the paradoxes – let me briefly mention: on the one hand, it is the American president who, with the greatest weight, presents what we can call international trade union demands. The US is in favour of total free trade in electronic services and the Internet, on the other hand the US will not react to its anti-dumping regime. In the case of demonstrators, some of them were to put an end to the WTO, while others were to include labour standards in the WTO and even sanctions against breaches of labour standards rules, which would require a dramatic strengthening of the WTO bureaucracy, apparatus and legislation if it were to be implemented. Some of the demonstrators were in favour of the demands of the developing world, while other demonstrators were in favour of closing the Western world's agriculture against imports from developing countries. And part of the demonstrators were obvious to all of these things at the same time. If you look at the Norwegian negotiating position, it didn't stand out very much either, because it was about the maximum free trade in fishery products and the minimum free trade in agricultural products, based on the clearly internationally easily understandable argument that there is a fundamental distinction between food produced in land and food produced in water. In short, there are huge differences of interest between countries and within countries, and that is what was reflected in Seattle. But there is only one further way to go, and that is in the direction of gaining international rules in the era of globalisation, but more based on the interests of the developing world and the poor. Now what? That's what Norway can do in the future. I am very pleased with the positive attitude the Foreign Minister has taken to greater transparency. One of the reasons why SV has insisted on this statement, and will insist that there will be sustained and frequent presentations about the WTO process in open meetings in the future, is that we cannot stand up for openness in the WTO without having maximum transparency in our own country around it. The seminars planned are positive steps in such a direction. But it also needs to be worked not only to include civil society in the WTO process in individual countries, but also in the process itself. It is controversial, but both in the Kyoto process and in the Rio process in terms of the environment, and in a number of other UN processes, civil society in the form of non-governmental organisations has an established status in the negotiation process itself. It must also be possible to work in the WTO, and I would ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on it. In the debate we had here in the United Kingdom, the Labour Party Marit Nybakk came with the recording – and it was followed up by others – that Norway should be in favour of a bilateral dialogue between ourselves and some developing countries in order to find a solution to it with work standards. Now the Thai Supachai Panitchpakdi, who will take over as the WTO Director-General in three years' time, has come to the conclusion that work standards should be taken out of the WTO and put under the UN into a separate working group. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on this, whether it is a dangerous way to allow the environment and labour standards to enter into such a way, and then into a real dialogue between third world countries and rich industrialised countries. I would also ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on the possibilities that not all countries need to be treated equally in the WTO system. For one of the obvious problems is that some things that have a positive impact on the overwhelming majority of the world's countries are dramatically problematic for the very poorest. It must be possible to establish legislation granting derogations to the very poorest in some areas where they need time to build up national industry and agriculture first, before it can become competitive internationally. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for positive Norwegian positions on genetically modified material, and ask that Norway continue to work intensively to ensure that China gets involved in the WTO as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e327	First, on behalf of the Left, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs made this statement, because – as Erik Solheim was involved in – it helps to open up the WTO discussions and the process that is taking place. Otherwise, I will also, for my part, refer to the speech I made in the previous debate in connection with a WTO statement. As Haakon Blankenborg also said, it is in principle not so much new to speak in relation to what was said in connection with that debate. There are some, including in Norway, who have expressed joy at the collapse of the WTO negotiations. There's no reason left to do that. To the extent that there are some who have lost, it was not the heavy market players in the global economy who lost, but it was the policy – to set fence posts that govern development in relation to market forces – that lost. There is therefore every reason to work actively further with a view to reaching an agreement, and then an agreement on as broad a basis as possible. As far as the process is concerned, on behalf of the Left, I would like to express my support and welcome the views expressed by the Foreign Minister there. In my speech in the previous round, I stressed the importance of supporting the process with transparency and the views expressed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the previous presentation on that matter. I therefore welcome the follow-up by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, both during the Seattle negotiations and the fact that it is emphasised that this is important in the further process. It is stated in the statement that, to this extent, it is difficult to get to the environment as a separate topic of negotiation. There is every reason to stress that environmental issues are important in relation to trade, and therefore also important in relation to WTO legislation. But it's not given that losing and getting it up as a separate theme, in itself needs to be some inconvenience. The important thing is that this is included and followed-up in relation to issues in a broad context. That is why, finally, on behalf of the Left, I would like to express my support for an active work in the follow-up to the situation as it now exists and, above all, to call for a high degree of transparency in relation to the processes to take place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e342	I am pleased with the comments that you look at this statement as part of the Government's desire for transparency, and we're going to follow it up. I also have the feeling that there might be a basis for such statements to clarify some misunderstandings. Representatives Fridtjof Frank Gundersen and Siri Frost Sterri referred to agriculture, that it was important that Norway did not stand alone, and that we should not be a stumbling block. I can assure Stortinget that Norway is neither alone nor a stumbling block. We played an active role in this context, and I cannot see that there is any basis for saying that we separated from the EU, for example. in this context. We took care of our interests, but we kept them in such a way that they were perceived, as I understand it, as constructively. In this context, I would also like to mention that the WTO has asked our ambassador in Geneva, Ambassador Kåre Bryn, to play an active and leading role in the follow-up work. And I assume that for the Right, too, there is a sign that we have confidence in the international community, when we are used just like a bridge builder in the WTO in Geneva, after such a difficult conference as we just had. I also think it's a little easy to talk about developing countries here. I sat next to the trade minister from Bangladesh, who I can assure you was almost on the verge when the collapse was a fact, and in no way looked at itself as any master of what had happened then. Among other things, he asked:What am I going to come back with now, what am I going to say to my people, what am I going to do, what has happened? The starting point was that they had great expectations that this would be a round of negotiations between the developing countries, and what was happening now made them set back with nothing. In this context, I would also say that from the Norwegian side, we were in no way perceived as difficult or controversial to the developing countries. As you mentioned earlier, we agreed that under certain conditions we could support the EU's proposal on zero duty, and we could even go a little further under the same conditions and look at the Director-General's proposals, as in the case of the former. The poorest countries themselves were concerned about. As far as labour standards are concerned, I think it was very badly handled, and perhaps it was about American domestic policy more than anything else. During the most crucial meeting, we took an initiative from Norway to engage in a dialogue between the industrialized and developing countries to prevent a total collapse. This is one of the things we want to follow up in the form of an international dialogue, which we want to start up through a seminar, where we not only want to have countries present, but also the employers and employees side. There is no doubt that the further work in the WTO is important for all of us, and I do not think at all that it is important for the small countries. As others have been here, the big countries will probably be able to get their own regime and get through to it. Therefore, it is natural that Norway should follow up on what we have done so far in Geneva by actively ensuring that as soon as possible we start a wide round of negotiations again. But certain works have to be done ahead of it, for example. there is a need to clarify the form of work so that not large groups are excluded from this work, and we also need to ensure greater transparency both within the organisation and towards the public.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e358	Then there's case no. 1 finished. [[Fotation, see page 1589]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e372	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Advance Party, Right, Center Party, Socialist Left Party, Left and Representative Mikalsen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e383	This call for proposals addresses principles for the future dimensioning of education and the management of higher education challenges resulting from the reform of competences, internationalisation and increased competition both nationally and abroad. I am pleased that there is support for the Government's policy in this area: first of all, the perception that dimensioning has to be less based on annual variations in student numbers, and to a greater extent based on long-term assessments. The notification is a step in the right direction towards longer-term and strategic assessments of study capacity by individual institutions. The aim is to give institutions the widest possible scope for action to adjust the study offer itself within a national assessment of long-term skills needs. The Committee recognises that the more basic and long-term assessments of dimensioning and other issues related to higher education should follow the submission of the Mjös Committee. This may also concern actions and issues discussed in this Communication. In the view of the Left, it is important that this sample has sufficient freedom to go through the whole education and research system without being tied to previous policies. Universities are among the most important institutions of democracy, with their cultural tradition and role as academic counter-power. But both universities and universities also have a very important role to play in educating people in business and society. Increased internationalisation leads to increased competition for students and researchers. Norwegian institutions must be able to meet all these challenges. I am therefore pleased that the Committee agrees that the institutions should have greater freedom and that there is a majority for greater flexibility in the institutions. At the same time, it is important that these institutions have good framework conditions – even when the number of students is falling. This has been taken into account by the Government in its proposals for budgeting — both the principle of net budgeting, the means of conversion and the visibility of research's share of operational resources will allow institutions themselves to take on long-term strategic priorities. These are also issues which the Committee will address both in the examination of the research communication and in the follow-up to the decision-making process of the Mjøs Committee. With regard to the individual disciplines, I would like to emphasise the need for national governance and strategic focus, in particular in the field of technology and real science and in the health and social sector. Although actions in recent years have led to the selection of real secondary education, it is important to continue to strengthen the real skills and understanding of primary and secondary technology. In a technology-based society, it should be a matter of course that understanding of technology is a natural part of generalisation. There is still a piece left, and alternative training arenas such as science centres, or so-called science centres, can make important contributions to the interest and knowledge of technology and real science in addition to what the school provides. In order to follow plans for health and social care adopted by the Storting in recent years, there is a need not only for money but also for human resources. The country needs health professionals in many different disciplines. It is important to exploit the possibility of decentralised education in this context. The majority also see the need to increase the capacity of medical training in this country. The Committee believes that it is an objective to wind up the system of buying study places abroad. It must be our responsibility to have enough places of study within this important field of domestic study. It is also important that we have good medical coverage throughout the country. A majority of the Committee therefore requests that new places of study, in addition to those now established at the University of Oslo, come to the other universities. In the case of another important profession, namely the teaching profession, the Committee will return to the dimensioning of teacher training and the recruitment of teachers in the treatment of St. report. No 12 for 1999-2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e409	There has been a rather large change in higher education here in Norway in recent years. We've had an explosion in the number of students, we've had a merger of the colleges, where we've got the new web of state universities, Norway's network, and we've got a growing need for a change in institutions. The biggest change that's happened is, of course, the number of students has exploded completely. But what's been a problem is that it's almost happened more or less randomly. Study places have been set up very often almost on the basis of budget compromises here in the house. Then they've tried to find the universities or colleges that could take the most students for the cheapest possible money, and that has led us to a dimensioning of higher education that is not necessarily the perfect one. We have problems training enough within a number of professions like teachers, nurses, etc., while we're probably training for a lot of government scientists, sociologists, etc. It's a common responsibility that I think we have to assume here in the Storting, because we haven't always been as precise when we've dimensioned higher education. There are several reasons why we have had the sharp increase. But the main reason – and perhaps the reason why it has actually been a success that we have had to do – is first of all that it should be a measure to remedy the unemployment that we had in the early 1990s, but also because we have seen that there has been a dramatic need for general empowerment in society within almost all industries. Now we see that the search for and the pressure on institutions, universities and colleges is stabilising. Of course, it's because we now have low leave, and it's not necessary for people to take higher education anymore instead of taking leave. We've also had a pretty big aftertaste in that very many adults who didn't have a higher education have taken a higher education during a period when they would otherwise have gone out of work. So that need is slightly weakened. We've been given Reform 94, which has led to a greater proportion of youth schools taking vocational education, i.e. education by taking professional letters, and we have, at least now, had a period of falling youth education, which makes me think that the number of applicants and the number of students will change dramatically in the years to come. But that means we're going to have a bigger challenge than before in dimensioning policy. The challenge is then to strike a balance between the needs of society for labour, regional challenges and the choice of students. It was on that basis that Stortinget asked for a dimensioning message, which we got for a while back. The first one to come was sent back to the department, among others. on the grounds that we have missed the own efforts of the Department and the Government to meet the challenges ahead. I am aware that the Mjøs Committee is under work and is about to give up its position this year. It is clear that they have to go into higher education as a whole, and the setting is likely to end up in a big message. But it's important that we don't deny ourselves the opportunity to take action right now, because the changes are happening so quickly, both in society and in colleges and universities, that we have to dry up a lot of work, even if we wait for the position of the Mjøs Committee. We see that there are many regions in Norway that experience relocation and centralisation. The biggest problem is that it is those with higher education, higher competence, who pack the suitcase and travel to the largest cities. I think the main reason for this is that they are applying for larger and more exciting environments, where there are exciting jobs and the opportunity to further develop their skills together with others who are at the same level. Of course, our university network has a role to play in providing competent labour for society by training nurses, teachers, protective caregivers, etc. But it is also important that they can have a role as motors in social development and in regional development. Universities are obviously playing such a role today by attracting qualified persons. They themselves offer exciting jobs, and we have a lot of experience in seeing new businesses forming in the wake of the efforts of universities. It is important that universities also have the opportunity to play such a role. It is important that this type of development takes place in more than four places in the country. So it's a pleasure to see that you're starting to get a lot of high school environments that are so strong that they're actually starting to play such a role. But then it's our responsibility to dry up giving those institutions, those environments, responsibility and the ability to evolve further. And we do that best by adding national tasks to the regions. We also need to ensure that institutions are given the opportunity to specialise and reindeer grow and sharpen the areas in which they are to be the foremost. We see that the student concept is now changing. There are more and more people taking part-time education alongside work or other activity. It's extremely difficult to interpret up to how many students there are at colleges and universities, how the flow is, and how the mass production is because we don't know what ambitions people have, and how much time they actually intend to spend on studies, how many weights they actually have as a goal to take in a year. It's important that we get a system to calculate the number of students, a system that is more than just counting the heads that are present at the start of the study. We see that continuing education is coming more and more now. There will be much more to demand education where education is actually to be paid by even others than themselves and the State, but where the employer will be involved in providing part of the financial resources for the training. We get more and more need for specially organized education, because people want to do this at the same time as they do something else, and so they need the studies not as square as they might have been now. We need to get a stronger decentralisation of education provision. We have to make it possible to get more offers out in the regions, so that we can also give an offer to those who don't have the opportunity to move into the study centres and to the largest cities to take education. That's why I'm very pleased that we went into the KUF budget, which we dealt with last week, to increase the investment in decentralised higher education by 20 million. kr. This must be followed up further. And I would like to stress that then we're not talking about building new colleges and new institutions. Then we're talking about a flexible system where you're going to go in and give the offers that are being asked for. At the same time, it is important to leave universities and universities free to work more flexibly. There is good reason to say that over the years the ministry has not been the best co-player for higher education and universities, and especially for higher education, who want to get something new and change their offer and want to become more flexible and creative in the way they provide education. It is likely that in the future institutions will have to have greater opportunities to scald and choose a little – relatively freely – within their actual competences. In the configuration, the Committee addresses a number of special groups and needs there. I'll just mention two of them and underline a couple of things. One is the caregivers, where the major problem has been the lack of practice places and the quality of some of the training practices. The introduction of the new framework has been very late, and this has made it difficult to provide new and good practice places. The Committee now stresses that the new framework plan should be introduced for the next academic year. We have also been confirmed by the Council of State and the Department that this will happen. It's legal late, but anyway, it's time to get started, so you can cancel this education as well. The other group I'm going to mention is the doctors. There is no doubt that there has been some kind of medical crisis in Norway. This has led to a sharp increase in education capacity in Norway and also through the purchase of out-of-office facilities. But that's only now that we're going to start seeing the effect of it, because it's now the first increased coals are starting to get into the labour market. The most likely sensible way to deal with the health crisis is to flood the market with doctors, so that you can almost take away the Medical Association and the doctors as such the press they have today to actually control the whole of Health Norway and to be able to demand almost what they want to pay to treat a poor person. Last year Stortinget went in to receive medical training at the Central Hospital in Akershus. There's been a lot of debate around this. That case is certain, the case will be implemented. There's been a lot of reactions from the other environments around the country. We believe that the only reasonable way to deal with it is to take a grip and make sure that we get an increase in capacity and a strengthening in the other three environments, i.e. Tromsø, Bergen and Trondheim. It is clear from the wording of a motion for a resolution on the number of Roma people, which will be adopted later today, that we are going to have a strengthening of the three environments. This is absolutely necessary, and I assume it happens quickly, so we don't have a situation where these three environments feel that they're now being reset for what's happening around Oslo. There is no doubt that it has been useful to have this message for treatment. It provides a good overview of the situation in higher education in Norway, and it provides the opportunity to provide some important long lines of dimensioning. But it's clear that things are changing so fast that I doubt whether the committee today has the final solutions. Things happen very quickly. This means – I am sure – that we will have quite a number of discussions also in the annual budget debates on what kind of areas of higher education it is important to increase and reduce. So one thing I can guarantee: this is not the last time we have this kind of debate. We're going to have to keep our eyes open and keep up with everyone so that we can help get a more sensible dimensioning of higher education and get a system that actually follows in the changes that happen in society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e445	It's later that what we did when I was young, that is, making hearts in the bark of trees and writing "The + Den = True", is also valid in terms of dimensioning policies for higher education. Because here it is clear that industrial policy and education policy are not just true, but it is district policy. Reasonable dimensioning – yes, is that possible? Hasn't experience shown through all the years you've been driving it, that this boat is hard to really float on the water? Research carried out in Tromsø has shown a «laxen effect», that a larger number of students from an area studying at e.g. Tromsø, is looking for a job in this district later, i.e. that you have a greater local benefit from this education. It is in itself an interesting phenomenon, but in my view it does not defend the majority's desire to build strong regional education and research centres beyond the established university environments. In the opinion of the Progress Party, higher education and research as a district policy instrument are a very small useful step. That means that you want to force a lot of people to study where they don't want to. If they don't do what this house and the department decides, they don't get any education either. In our opinion, this is a direct wrong policy. The dimensioning policy, which we are really discussing, is – and in particular with the Norwegian Network Council – a far-reaching political governance tool that, in the view of the Progress Party, using such resources in time and time will lead us into a hopeless labyrinth of bureaucracy, increasing administration and, as a result, poor quality higher education for those who need it. Norway is a small nation. We're just 4.5 million inhabitants. Today we have six universities, we have almost 30 state colleges, we have science colleges, universities for culture, music, theatre, ballet, design – you name it, we have it! In addition to this, we have several private educational institutions, and all these schools are scattered across the whole country on the basis of a principle of securing housing and securing interesting jobs. Fewer high-quality institutions and a wide range of self-governments, the possibility of offering education where current needs exist and students' choices are given priority is one of the much better policies for us. Continuing education is strongly in this picture and is an offer that can be made decentralised. But it requires strong and viable institutions, it requires that they have opportunities to send teacher powers into the districts when the need is there, etc. What is important is the financing of these actions. The progress party has claimed over time that the money for education should follow the student or student. The principle might mean that some colleges are going to be gone, but it'll mean quality raising elsewhere. Competition often has the effect of stimulating quality. Furthermore, the party is concerned that training abroad is positive in itself and provides the country with rapid access to research and new technologies. Targeting fees and additional scholarships to stimulate or penalise students applying for education abroad is, in our opinion, a edication. Old stuff of thought that's gone down, has to be taken care of. Running after its own tail is energy-intensive, and not particularly forward-looking. The Progress Party wishes to stimulate studies abroad, and proposes an improvement of the fee grant to 80 pst. We would also say that there can be a change in the funding model, and that each institution has a responsible operational board and is controlled by e.g. number-of-weight production. This doesn't mean you have to count heads. I would like to take up with this the proposals that the Progress Party has promoted alone and with others.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e464	Ursula Evje has addressed the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e467	Today’s debate is being speeded up by an interim assessment of the need for and dimensioning of higher education. We get a new round when the Mjøs committee presents its investigation in the spring of next year. However, the Communication already addresses the principles of dimensioning higher education. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to balance the principle of free choice of education for the individual student and the needs of society. Individual choice of study is very important both for motivation and work. For this reason, recruitment to outsourced studies or new subjects must be done primarily by means of information. However, provision of study facilities must be allowed to maximise the use of resources. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to be able to offer studies, but not necessarily in all places. There must be a division of labour between the institutions and the regions. With regard to the setting-up of studies for which society needs special attention, central governance should continue to exist. In addition, the principle of maximum autonomy for institutions should apply. Knowledge will be important for business development and innovation. Education Norway must therefore see its responsibility for regional development, both in terms of the definition of study provision and the development of professional content. In particular, universities must be willing to have such a regional role. Quality in teaching is important, but so important is a research foundation for teaching. The Christian People's Party wants to stimulate research by developing stronger cooperation between colleges and regional research foundations, and by providing higher education institutions with research work. Through the Norwegian network, it should be possible to obtain a division of labour which can also provide professional immersion and to assign national tasks to regional environments. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Committee's position bears the mark of broad dissension about the principles of dimensioning, as the Government has sketched them. For us in the Christian People's Party, it has been important in committee work to promote the importance of international exchange programmes and the desire for internationalisation of higher education. In the dimensioning of higher education too, we must seek to take account of the possibility of studying abroad, for example: in the field of medical training. The Committee's main concerns are the assessment of the need for greater training capacity in some disciplines. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to establish that it is still desirable to have more places of study in medicine and ergotherapy. If we are to get enough staff to meet the cancer plan, we also need to increase the capacity of radiographs and radiation therapists. In nurses, the practical part seems to be the most difficult. Here, a separate sample, the Mekki Committee, has assessed different measures to strengthen practice training. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government should follow-up this selection work as soon as possible with concrete solutions that can help improve the situation with regard to practice areas and ensure professional good guidance for nursing students in practice. A new framework for the training of nurses from the 2000-2001 academic year will have to be introduced, and resources will have to be allocated to the implementation of extended practices, as was the case with the introduction of new teacher training in the autumn of 1998. I would also like to refer to the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e486	A collective committee says in the setting: ‘The Committee considers this Communication to be a step towards a longer-term and strategic approach to assessing the study capacity of individual institutions and would stress that this is a development that needs to continue.’ This has to be seen in the light of the fact that it has not been the long-term and strategic one that has characterized the planning of higher education in Norway over the past 10–15 years. When we have a third legal faculty, it is due to the domino effect of a majority decision in this room to add the civil economy education to Bodø, and this led to the need to compensate by setting up a new study in Tromsø. There are many similar examples. Thus, there is nothing to say about the correctness of individual decisions, but there are many similar examples that there has not been a comprehensive planning that has guided the individual decisions taken. When I joined the Norwegian University Council in the mid-1980s, the general concern was that there would be too few students in the Norwegian university and higher education system in the years to come. From 1988 onwards, we experienced a new population migration of a rather dramatic nature, which in a short time caused the number of students at Norwegian universities to double. It shows both that it is very difficult to draw up reliable forecasts of study behaviour, and it shows – it must be right to admit afterwards – that we have tended to use university studies, in particular the so-called general faculties, as a accordion game, which we have expanded and drawn together as the labour market did. It may well be that there is no bad social economy either. But at least it is not an active and offensive form of planned use of the capacity of higher education institutions. Therefore, there is reason to wish for a more long-term and strategic approach to the whole field. We are in a phase where there is a consensus that there is a need for flexibility. There's a need for ability to convert, faster conversion than we've been used to. In this context, the majority has delivered an opinion on the increased use of temporary employment. The right and the left have their own comment, stressing that this should not apply to full-time teaching positions at institutions. On the other hand, it is right to invest in increased use of II positions that clearly increase flexibility, and it may be right to use more time and help teachers who are purchased for hourly payments. When we warn against using fixed-term employment in full-time jobs, it is because the recruitment situation is already becoming very difficult in many professions, and it will not make it easier to recruit people if you create uncertainty about job status. Finally, a few words about the relationship between foreign education and Norwegian education. In the comments of the majority, the Workers' Party and the three government parties, reference is made to the treatment of the State budget for 2000 in respect of the follow-up to the promise of two fully funded return trips for foreign students. I don't think any of the readers will be particularly pleased if they go back and study the position of the same parties in the budget, because they don't get any obligatory answers either. There is no willingness on the part of the majority to follow up the promise made several years ago on the notification of foreign students. The right hand and the Progress Party have highlighted in a special note on page 5 of their skepticism against the Ministry's suggestion that the purchase of study places will continue to be used in order to solve the capacity problems at home. The Committee has said several times in the past that the purchase of study places is not a suitable way to solve problems. Finally, the Right Party and the Advance Party have their own proposal regarding the capacity of medicine, and this is based on the fact that there have been major changes in the behaviour of Norwegian students abroad in this area, and we want us to have a complete overview before taking a position on how much expansion to take at the faculties here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e506	Today, nearly 60 pst. higher education of today’s youth. It's a formidable growth compared to the forecasts outlined at the end of the 1980s. At that time, the authorities operated with the number 105 000 as a reasonable measure. But then came the economic fluctuations of high unemployment, where various educational measures became an important tool to remedy the adverse effects of unemployment. It was reasonable to isolate it, but we're not going to underestimate that it was enough for some ad hoc solutions. The centre party believes it is important that many more have acquired study skills and have chosen to take up higher education. This provides a good basis for Norway as a competence nation. Nevertheless, one must not forget that competence is also needed in the practical everyday professions, if I can call it that, but that is not part of this matter today. There are considerable differences in the country’s study propensity, and indigenous populations are well below the national average. This is a topic that needs to be taken seriously, both by central and regional politicians. There is a need to improve the provision of advice and to improve the provision of attractive study facilities, not least at the national colleges. When regional policy authorities close up new study offers, there are expectations for decision-makers, with your two disappointments when there is no offer. I refer to the Inland offensive, which concerns Uppland and Hedmark, how higher education should be part of the engine for growth and development. The counties of Buskerud, Westfold and Eastfold are also below the national average in terms of places of study compared to the population. The centre party considers this to be important when planning new places of study. Decentralized study provision is a goal to reach people where they live. However, I ask a question as to whether it is most appropriate in all situations. I would like to bring out here the College of Buskerud, which has considerable competence in pedagogics, but lacks general teacher education. In the same state there is a great need for more trained teachers. Today, decentralised teacher training is offered from the University of Telemark, which itself is unable to fill its places. One has to ask what gives the best result in Norway's web perspective. Is there a decentralised scheme or establishment of general teacher training at the county's own university? A central question is also whether there is a reasonable correlation between the needs of society for competence and the education chosen by the students. The answer is no, and that's why the dimensioning message has arrived. At the same time, I refer to the Mjøs Committee, which has the task of reviewing all aspects of higher education. In this context, I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for the process she has been involved in working on this position, where, in my opinion, the Committee has managed to avoid troubling in the bed of the Mjøs Committee. There is constant criticism that higher education institutions are too static and inflexible to meet new challenges in line with society’s needs. The criticism should probably also be directed at flooding and departments, because, despite all these forums, they create the framework conditions. It is necessary for institutions to be given more freedom of movement and to demonstrate their own willingness to be more flexible, not least in relation to being central providers of the continuing training reform that is now on the steps. There's more competition here, and here the institutions must be conscious of their responsibilities. I will also refer to the setting's mention of this. So a few comments on some subject areas. The lack of realists who will become teachers has adverse consequences for both initial and post-secondary education. I believe that different incentives need to be considered in order to improve access to both realists and engineering students. This is a prerequisite for achieving the objective of an innovative Norway. I would also like to stress that design, both product and industrial design, must be given priority. It is necessary to invest in ICT and multimedia in higher education. Here I will bring out the Gjøvik College, which has study plans for a civil engineering degree ready, but lacks some resources to start up. I would like to stress that it is very important to get higher-grade studies to this region as well. The centre party is pleased to note that training within the adopted health plans must be followed up. Here, the department has to provide room for study facilities where it is possible to do so. In today's edition that Oppland Workerblad there is a statement about the radiograph shortage: ‘Thanks to the vigorous efforts of the Upplands bench, the Social Committee of the Grand Duchy is now in the process of establishing that radiograph education from the next school year, and it can in the long run improve the situation of the JRC. When the new radiation unit is in place, even more radiographs are needed.» Clearly, I would like the Church, Education and Research Committee to have had the same concrete statements, but we did not choose to have that in connection with this communication of principle.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e533	This has become a good message. The notification is clear that there is a societal need for competence and the individual's desire to manage capacity. The notification has well balanced these interests. This means that for education and training other than professional training, the demand that will largely control capacity, and from that point of view, it will have a major impact on our further policy, so to the extent that we want to influence and direct development towards particular education, the demand side that we have to try to influence in the future is to a large extent. The notification is ready for us to have a capacity that allows for at least half of the relevant annual coals. We see that in the next few years the year coals will go down somewhat – not much, but they will go down somewhat. It's a little bit important that at this stage we don't build up our capacity. I think it's important that we take care of the capacity we have, even if we have a certain decline in the relevant year's coals. And it's true, as the message states, that individual institutions have to adapt their offerings, and there doesn't have to be a reduction in order to adapt. The communication also has a good educational policy perspective in such a way that it is not so focused on technology but also has a very good perspective on what is involved in industrial development. This means that one places emphasis on humanities, social sciences, etc., and not just technology, when one sees this in a business policy context. The notification provides for a larger autonomy in the institutions, which is consistent with what the Size has previously expressed. One has also tried to involve the reform of competence, and has done so in part. It is difficult to see what demand will come from this reform, but I feel that an honest attempt has been made. The important thing is the signal that now goes to the educational institutions, that it is those who are going to develop offers so that the skills reform becomes what it should be. I'm going to draw in three areas where, in my opinion, the message is somewhat vague. First of all, it's what goes on the biased recruitment, social and geographical. It's quite obvious that we have a biased recruitment socially to higher education today. It is also said in the message, but I feel that it is a description, and not an analysis of what we should do with this. I should have liked to think a little bit about what's the cause of this and why we haven't gotten beyond what we are, because this is an accident -- at least it's unfortunate for those who miss higher education, and it's also unfortunate for society, who misses the competence that one could have got out of that part of the population who doesn't apply for higher education. So I probably wish that one had carried out a certain analysis of what the cause is, and looked at whether the study funding helps to cause the biased recruitment, and also looked at changes in the labour market, which groups it is that first fall out in relation to higher education. Some analyses around it would have been interesting. I also feel that the communication discusses to a small extent how higher education should be ensured recruitment, and then I think first of all about teaching skills in the years to come. We're opening up to some extent the use of temporary additions, and the message addresses this with II positions, etc., but I would probably also like to have gone further into the matter, because I think we're facing major challenges in the years to come in order to get enough teachers and enough researchers to our higher education institutions. In addition, I also feel that the very model of projections is not good enough, and that driving projections is difficult. But I am not sure that the model work has been good enough, nor am I sure that the data included in the model is good enough. It should have been done more both with the model itself and with the computer equipment, but the message also says that it should be further worked on. I think it's important to get better models in order to be able to say a little bit about future demand and future provision of higher education. And then finally, over the next 20 years, 800,000 new jobs need to be created. We have said quite many times that there are jobs producing goods and services with a high level of knowledge, and it is important that we then put up a higher education that has this perspective in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-20.ana.ud1561e552	According to the resolution earlier today, Stortinget will take a break in the negotiations between 9 p.m. 1:45 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox The President will propose, in the interests of the change of line following the intervention of the Council of State, that the meeting be suspended now, and that the first speaker at the evening meeting be the Council of State Jon Lilletun. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
