ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22.ana.ud640e25	The representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. From the Norwegian delegation to the 1999 session of the Council of Europe, Part Two, in Strasbourg, an application has been submitted, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Tom Thoresen. The application concerns the authorisation of the representatives of Olav Akselsen, Aud Blattmann, Eirin Faldet, Annelise Höegh, Inge Myrvoll, Jorunn Ringstad, Lars Rise, Jan Simonsen, Anita Apelthun Seele and Tom Thoresen for the period from 26 April to 28 April. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the West Agder County: Rolf Terje KlunglandFor the Hedmark County: Erling Brands For the Hordaland County: Gard Folkvord and Kurt-Arne LangelandFor the Northern Province: Lisbeth HolandFor Oslo: Ann Kathrine Tornås and Anders C. ShaastadFor the Rogaland County: Toril Haaland HorpestadFor the Sogn and Fjordane County: Håkon GiilFor the Eastfold County: Morten Olsen3. Lisbeth Holand and Ann Kathrine Tornås are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Inge Myrvoll and Lars Rise
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22.ana.ud640e114	The representative Signe Eye will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22.ana.ud640e117	On behalf of Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to make proposals on changes to the People's Security Act so that financial compensation for elected representatives in political positions in municipalities and county councils is exempted from the provision for curtailment in the pension.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22.ana.ud640e122	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22.ana.ud640e134	The aim of the intragroup transfer arrangements, adopted in 1991, was to facilitate intragroup reorganisations. In 1966, changes were made to the past. There are indications that these changes made them too liberal, and that it was necessary to streamline to avoid using them as a basis for tax exemptions that were unintended by the authorities. On this basis, the Ministry of Finance found it necessary to amend the budget just before the end of 1998-1999, with effect from 1 January 1998. Now it turned out that the change could also affect some of the ordinary mergers. This was not the intention. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance decided to postpone the change, except that if the first stage of the transfer was made in 1998, the condition of the current tax exemption for the following years is that the company remains in the group. Document No 8:26 mainly deals with the formal aspects of the change of ownership. The proposers conclude by asking that the whole amendment be withdrawn again, that proposals for new returns be sent to the hearing, and that intra-group transfers should be incorporated into the tax laws. When it comes to the first two points of the proposalers, the majority in the Committee have not found a basis for supporting this. This is mainly due to the following points: It is up to the Minister of Finance to draw up a report following the decisions taken by the Storting.Whenever a statement is made that there is an accidental exploitation, such a tax gap must be checked as soon as possible. This also allows you to get back to the aspects of the implemented tightening. When it comes to the point of integrating intra-group transfers into tax laws, there is a broad political agreement to look at this. I refer here to the committee comment at the Innst. O. No 40, on new tax laws. In a letter to the Committee dated 12 February 1999, the Minister of Finance also stated that there is much to be said for such incorporation. There is not necessarily the great dissatisfaction with the realities of this matter. As I said, the proposers have focused specifically on formalities. After an overall assessment, the majority here have found that one cannot go in to ask that the entire caregivers be withdrawn, and that the individual case is sent out on the phone. This calculates the number of hosts that are placed in a good way by the wide range of seats that the department has set up. When it comes to the transposition of tax laws, it comes back at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22.ana.ud640e165	One late evening in Rome, one sits in the Ministry of Finance and makes a quite violent change to this regulation without having been sent to the hearing, without notifying companies that would be affected by such a change, and at the top of it all, this was carried out with retroactive effect. The reactions were not allowed to wait. New Year's Eve, the first New Year's Day, the second New Year's Day, at least my phone didn't stop. Business leaders were very frustrated by the way the Ministry of Finance acted. And then we reach after that document number. The 8-proposal was submitted, and it is felt that the Ministry of Finance stated that they had so much to do, and that this was the reason why they failed to send the proposal to the hearing, I believe that this requires this hall's attention. Because you can't carry out credible, long-term and predictable business policies by changing vital regulations a late night in the department. When the rapporteur now stated that the purpose of this regulation is to facilitate reorganisations, it is perhaps paradoxical to end up tightening up the legislation so significantly that the simplification aspect is gone and the tax burden is increasing. I also think it is a bit helpful when the majority of the finance committee says that they expect this to be well cared for by the ministry. But now history has shown that the ministry has in no way done this in a good way. That is also why this matter has been brought before the Financial Committee, because some people have to take responsibility for not doing such things. I have hurt to understand why this proposal, in two points, which have been put forward in this matter, does not receive support. Because, as the rapporteur said, there is a broad consensus that this should be incorporated into tax law. That's where we agree. But the premise of the Financial Committee and the Storting in its time was that we should be briefed and get this back before changes are made. When the case rapporteur points out that it is up to the Minister of Finance to do this, it is correct, but the Stortinget is not so paralysed that you do not say anything if you think the Government is doing something that you disagree with, and that is why this has now been taken up. With this in mind, I would like to address the proposal of the People's Party, the Right and the Twist Party, and I would like to ask the majority in this matter to turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22.ana.ud640e178	Siv Jensen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22.ana.ud640e181	This case of duty-free transfers is in so far as a comprehensive case. But we have chosen from the Workers' Party to see it this way, with the history of this matter, the laws that have underpinned these regulatory changes, that this is the way to go to clean up. However, we take note that the Minister of Finance has laid down rules based on the law passed by the Stortingen on group taxation. We do not doubt that the Minister of Finance has acted in his full right, and it is also the responsibility of the Government and the Minister of Finance to draw up regulations that are in line with the law that has been passed and the intentions here. At the same time, I think that we made a «settlement» with this case when we dealt with the Innst. O. No 40, the new tax law, which includes, inter alia: a letter from the Minister of Finance states that by 1 January 2000, the Stortinget will be brought back to the Grand Duchy with proposals to incorporate into the tax law permanent tax exemptions on intra-group transfers. We then join the majority and believe that such a presentation will be the right opportunity to review different aspects of this legislation. But since it was said by the representative Siv Jensen that it was hard to understand that the majority did not agree with the proposers here, I would like to make some comments to that very thing in order to provide further justification from our side. We see it so that a cancellation will reintroduce access to a comprehensive exploitation of tax gaps. There's no doubt about it. Two letters have made it quite clear, in which case the Ministry and the Minister of Finance have both the right and the obligation to adjust the legislation so that it cannot be misused and give them the results. There would have been a lot more reason to intervene if the Minister of Finance had not now adjusted the regulations in line with what had been done in the past, for example. in the Act of Transformation. We have a profit tax system, and it is very unfortunate that the exemption for groups to a transfer can also be used in company transfers out of the group, and that is what has been one of the most important for us. This has not been the purpose of the previous law. A lifting of the new rules will lead to confusion, and the uncertainties will be so great – and that is exactly what was the result, I refer to the Minister of Finance’s last letter – that we could get a circumvention of the tax level of 78 p.m., among others. in the case of petroleum taxation, in the case of means of operation. It would be very close that we could get such a slip. The regulatory tightening does not at all affect groups that retain their operating resources within the group. The legal basis for the regulation is the Law on Reformation of 1961, and a system has been set up here – it also appeared during the hearing, among others. from one of those who were there, Hafslund — which means that individual applications for exemption from intragroup transfer profits can be granted and rejected. We are aware that some groups are facing such a problem, but then it is possible to make individual applications for exemptions from intra-group transfer gains – there is such an entry in the regulation now. The Minister of Finance's letter of 12 February of this year has also been made clear. We therefore think that there is such an access. It may be beneficial for those companies that may feel that they have come out a little unlucky in connection with this regulatory adjustment, that they have the opportunity to apply for an exemption from this tax. For this reason, we are in favour of the majority vote, which the rapporteur has presented in an excellent way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22.ana.ud640e201	On 30 December 1998, Minister of Finance Gudmund Restad sent out a new regulation tightening the tax screw for Norwegian businesses by amending the tax-free intragroup transfers rule, with retroactive effect for the whole of 1998. It produced strong reactions, firstly related to the predictability of industrial operators. Secondly, that type of regulation should – unless there are serious reasons against – be consulted in advance. It is obvious that there was a basis for the criticism that came, among other things. from the right, for the Minister of Finance returned on 8 January to half of the regulation. However, there should be no retroactive effect on the cases where the group association ceased in 1998. We'll record that, and we'll see it as half a victory. However, we believe that the Minister of Finance could have withdrawn the entire regulation, went a regular consultation round and then returned with a regulation, possibly incorporated into the law, which we had then received for ordinary treatment. Throughout the case, there has been the formal and procedural procedure we have been involved in. With regard to the material content of the regulation, we have not taken a decision on it, and it is natural to come back to it when the Storting is informed of the matter. I record that the Council of State in its reply to the Committee largely explains the material content of the regulations, and not so much about its own proceedings. There was some malaproposal, because the committee was primarily concerned with predictability, and thought it was right to come back to the substance at a later stage. Then we will meet here later for a discussion on how to make sense in terms of taxing intragroup transfers. In any case, we cannot stand up to the fact that in this area we have a framework that is less good for Norwegian business than what we have in the surrounding countries and in the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22.ana.ud640e214	I will not help to extend the debate very much, because there is probably not so much more I can add, in addition to what I have previously given to the Committee, especially in the form of the two letters of 12 February and 23 March respectively, to which the debate refers, but nevertheless some words. Mr. Brende now pointed out in his statement that in the letters I mentioned here, there was a great deal of reference to the material content of the group regulation, which allegedly was not a key point for those who promoted Document No. The 8th proposal. I have found it right in those letters to explain the material content in order to try to explain why this procedure was needed, which has now been criticised by the proposers. The Ministry, as mentioned by several here now, adopted, in its regulation of 30 December 1998, amendments to the Group Regulation. The purpose of the change was to counteract the undesirable effects of the regulation. Briefly outlined, the group regulation allows the sale of assets from one company in the group to another company in the group without immediate taxation of the sales gain. The purpose of the tax exemption is to facilitate the reorganisation within such groups. A clear prerequisite for the tax exemption is that the group as a whole does not come into a tax position other than if the transaction had not been completed. The change made the tax exemption on the sale of assets internally in the group conditional on the asset remaining in the ownership of the group. Such a contingent tax exemption implies, in principle, that the contingent, exempt gain is taxed if the asset is subsequently excluded from the ownership of the group. Tax liability is triggered whether it is the transferred assets that are sold directly out of the group or the shares of the group company that are transferred under the regulation. The contingent tax exemption further reduces the possibility to distribute dividends with non-taxable capital without triggering a correction tax. Furthermore, the amendment made it clear that the regulation could not be used in the petroleum sector to transfer the income tax from assets of a special taxable company with a tax rate of 78 p.m. to a land-based company with a tax rate of 28 p.m. Of course, I agree with the critics and proposers here that consultations should normally be held when regulations are to be amended. It is imposed by both the administrative law and the investigation instructions, which we comply with. But there is an opportunity to avoid this and not to consult in special situations, and in my opinion there was a special situation beyond the harvest last year. First, some tax advisors began to give recipes — almost cookbooks — on how to avoid taxes on sales of operating assets. It was also a theme at the Annual Meeting of the Association at the Plaza Hotel in November. In November, it was also known that an oil company had made use of the regulation and transferred large sums from a special taxable company to land-based operations, with a definitive effect: a tax exemption of more than 120 million. kr. If one in that situation were to implement this with the normal consultation deadlines etc., it would not be possible to change the regulation by the end of the year, and I felt that the information we then received was necessary. That is why there was no consultation, which is therefore accessible, and the regulation was then completely changed at the end of the year. I agree with Nordtun that it would be more critical if, in that situation and with the information I had, I had failed to change the regulation. Any repeal of the amendments of 30 December 1998, as advocated by the proposers, would open up the application of the regulation in 1999, clearly contrary to its purpose and at risk of significant, unintended tax losses. The Ministry is working on a material on changes to the group regulation to be sent out at the hearing and will do so in a short time. It has been shown that this is significantly more complicated than many are aware of. Last week, we received important input that must be included in the consultation material, but it is now being sent out, and then, after the consultation process has ended, any corrections, including changes in the tightening of 30 December 1998, which are in favour of the taxpayer, will apply from the date of the mitigation. The changes and corrections that will be proposed in the light of these consultation notes, I intend to present to the Stortinget for inclusion in the tax law, as I mentioned earlier, and as I have also heard, have been taken into account in several of the articles here today. I guess that's what I can do. The consultation will now begin immediately, and my clear intention is to promote a proposal for incorporating the changes that are being made into the tax law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22.ana.ud640e231	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22.ana.ud640e237	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22.ana.ud640e243	During the debate, Siv Jensen put forward a proposal on behalf of the People's Party, the Right and the Twist Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-22.ana.ud640e274	There is no record.
