ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26.ana.ud1337e31	The representatives Inge Myrvoll and Jon Olav Alstad, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Finnmark County: Einar Johansen and Kirsti Saxi For the Rogaland County: Helga Rullestad For Telemark County: Gunn Marit Helgesen For the Westfold province: Karin Lian
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26.ana.ud1337e70	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see page 250]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26.ana.ud1337e84	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26.ana.ud1337e89	The Judicial Committee has adopted a unanimous position on the cheapness of state funds. Credit substitutes are the Storting’s own compensation scheme and the scheme is not regulated. The basic idea of cheap substitutes is that it should be able to give an acceptance and a recognition that the replacement has come out particularly unfortunate in relation to others to which it is natural to compare. The amounts of compensation are not intended to cover the losses incurred, but can best be described as a hand bill. The number of cases has increased considerably in recent years, and the Justice Committee has previously asked for an investigation to be carried out into ways of dealing with cases of cheap substitutes. In this context, the Committee described several different models, and the proposal submitted by the Ministry is based on one of these models. The Committee endorses the Government's proposal to a large extent, but has come to a somewhat different level of organisation of the system at one point, namely whether the Committee on the Compensation of Fines is to have the power of decision at the first instance. After further consideration of this issue, the Committee has concluded that it is correct that the Committee on the Compensation of Fines should deal with all matters in substance. Once a different solution has been reached by the Committee, it has given particular attention to the fact that the decision should be taken on the basis of a public judgement. With the organisation of the Committee, all applicants will have their case assessed by representatives of the Stortinget. It will continue to be so that all cases are reviewed and evaluated by two instances. The Ministry of Justice shall have the secretarial function, obtain professional assessments, prepare the cases and draw the conclusion of the Committee on the Exchange of Letters. The Committee notes that the Ministry of Justice has reserved a detailed assessment of the administrative body to be set up at first instance and considers that the same relationship applies even if the decision-making authority is not delegated from the Billing Subsidy Committee to the Ministry. The Committee has unanimously agreed with the Government’s assessments regarding the principles of awarding, limiting and rejecting cases relating to cheap substitutes. There is a long-standing practice on which reasonableness assessments are based in the proceedings, and the Committee considers that this practice should be continued. The Committee did not wish the system to be regulated because a law could easily impose strict frameworks, which could mean that no persons falling outside other established arrangements could be caught. An important consideration to change the procedure for applications for cheap substitutes has been that the treatment of individual cases is in fact side by side with what the Storting should be doing and that the number of cases has increased sharply in recent years. In future, the size shall receive annual reports on the work of the Billing Replacement Committee, on matters of a particular political nature and on matters where it may be appropriate to provide compensation of more than DKK 200000. This is important, because then the Storting can still give signals and views on the treatment of cheap substitutes. The question of whether a limitation period should be laid down in respect of which an application for an early retirement allowance may be made has also been discussed. The Committee has assessed this in such a way that, as far as possible, formal conditions should be established which may limit the possibility of applying for compensation and have therefore not been covered by a limitation period. Finally, I would like briefly to say something about the complaint case No. 1 and 2. These cases concern persons infected with hepatitis C through blood transfusions in connection with medical treatment. In these cases, there has been an agreement between the Committee on State Aid and the Health Authority that all infected persons should be reimbursed cheaply, but there has been a disagreement as to how high the compensation should be. The committee set the compensation at NOK 25 000, while the Health Inspectorate recommended a general compensation of NOK 100000 and that those who develop shrink liver – approx. 20 pst. – should receive additional compensation of NOK 100 000. The Committee is aware that there is still a high degree of uncertainty associated with the long-term consequences of hepatitis C infection. The Committee considers that an individual assessment of each case should be carried out and that it is not natural to set up a fixed amount. The Committee considers that there may be a significant increase in the amount of compensation if the applicant has developed scrupulous liver or other serious injuries, such as: cancer. In substitution testing, weight should also be added if the applicant is bleeding, as it has other medical consequences for bleeders if they are infected with hepatitis C than for patients otherwise. The Committee recommended that the replacements be set at NOK 60000 in both cases. With regard to the other cases, none of the complaints were taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26.ana.ud1337e112	It is a historic debate we have here today. As far as I know, it's the very first time that the Stortinge takes a position on a total review of the system of bills. I think it must be quite unique that we have had an arrangement since 1814 that we have never had a debate about as such, and that it has never been written a rule, a paragraph or a rule for what the arrangement should look like. What started with a petition to the Stortinget around 1814 has become the many hundred applications for cheap substitutes last year. Thus, from the time the applications were dealt with in full in plenary in Stortinget, it has evolved that the vast majority of them are dealt with in the Billing Replacement Committee. Only the appeals come to Stortinget, and even the appeals are so many that only a few of the representatives really know about them. It is indicative of today's review that there is no disagreement, and it may not be worth calling debate. And it's indicative that there's no problem at all with the criteria of the scheme. On the contrary, there is a call from the Committee and the Stortinget to follow current practice. I would like to say that is a compliment to the members who are in the Billing Replacement Committee, and to the case handlers in the Department who manage these matters. They're good for Storting's signals, and they're true to the precedents, whether we're talking about criteria or similar things. At the same time, the scheme has evolved in line with societal developments. There's a different position today to what's entitled to compensation, than what it was a few generations ago. The scope of the applications suggests that the next question that the Stortinget should ask is whether the ordinary compensation arrangements are good enough. Are they far enough? Something has raised Stortinget out of the cheap compensation scheme, such as the Jewish settlement we recently had, and the replacement of the lobotomized. There may be reason to ask the question whether several types of cases should be raised. Should e.g. the system of compensation for patients and the system of compensation for victims of violence are being reformed, so that they are embracing more than today? There is clearly a consensus that we need a back-up solution, that we need an opportunity for those who get out particularly unlucky, for those who fall outside the ordinary compensation schemes and social security systems – especially if the public is to be accused of the damage and disadvantage they have suffered. There must be an opportunity for these to get a symbolic substitution sum. But it is important that the Committee emphasises in its attitude that we do not create rules about this, in order to ensure that the last safety net can capture everyone. An overall assessment is important when these criteria are put to the bottom, so that we ensure that it is the popular judgement that makes the decision as to whether compensation is justified. That is why the Committee believes that we must continue to let the decisions be taken by the Committee on the Compensation of Bills, where the people of Storting are sitting. I believe that this will strengthen the applicant's position in relation to what was in the original proposal. Then it will be all the cases and not just the ducks that are treated in two instances. Then in the Storting we can deal with the principal questions, the boundary lines and the principal lines of the arrangement. Finally, I would like to refer to appeal case No. 1 and 2, contained in the proposition. It's a kind of thing that we're also going to be able to find here in the Stortinget with the new system we're now introducing. Many people have been infected with hepatitis C before the health care system was able to detect this infection in the blood. The Committee says that such infection itself qualifies for compensation and will significantly increase the amount – up to NOK 60000. But the consequences can be very different, and therefore an individual assessment of each case is necessary. But we open there so that there can be significantly higher amounts than the 60 000 kroner given in cases 1 and 2. It can have very serious consequences, such as shrink liver and cancer, as mentioned. Then I will also mention the group of bleeders. Being a hemorrhage is in itself an additional burden when you are infected with hepatitis C, because you have limited opportunities for treatment and for taking samples.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26.ana.ud1337e131	I would first like to express my opinion that the rapporteur presented the facts of the matter in an excellent manner. This was also followed up by the representative of Ane Sofie Tmärås. Whether the historical aspects of the debate are quite as prominent as Mr Tömerås said, we can have different opinions on. At least I think it is important that we have got this case in place with this broad consensus and the solid review that the matter has received in Stortinget. For my part, I just want to stress what I see as the most important facts in the matter. We continue to keep cheap substitutes as an expression of popular discretion, as a handshake, as the rapporteur said, and as it is also stated in the proposal, we are maintaining the two-way procedure, and we are retaining the Billing Board as the elected body of the Storting and thus ensuring democratic control of the cheap substitutes as well. In other words, we follow the essentials of today's practice, except that the Storting does not go in and detail all the matters. I also want to underline one more thing, both from the proposition and the setting, namely that the Stortinget is aware that knowledge of cheap substitutes is unequally distributed among people. The Government therefore asks for proposals to be made to make the scheme better known and thus to ensure even more democratic application of the scheme. With regard to the two complaints, I cannot help but understand that there must have been some misunderstandings going on. The reality of the matter is that the Storting increases the amounts initially from the proposed NOK 25 000 to NOK 60 000, while at the same time opening up the possibility of some significant higher compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26.ana.ud1337e142	The background to today's review of the cheap substitutes system is that today's system means that the Storting treats a large number of individual cases, and that such proceedings are on the side of the natural tasks of the Storting. The credit compensation scheme has been and continues to be the Stortinge’s own scheme. The system shall capture actions which appear to be eligible but which are not captured by other ordinary arrangements. It suggests that it is important that decisions are made on the basis of public judgement, more than on a legal and regular basis. After the Ministry of St.prp. No 89 for 1995-96 announced that it would initiate a review of the principles and rules of procedure of the LFS, the Judicial Committee agreed that such a review was needed. During the last harvest of the budget, the Stortinget Government asked for alternative organisational models for the treatment of cheap substitutes and submitted the matter to the Stortinget during 1999. The government has in St.prp. No 72 for 1998-99 presented its assessment of the principles and organisation of the cheap substitutes system in a manner that the Committee welcomes. The Government’s assessment of the principles for the award, limitation and rejection of cases relating to cheap substitutes has been endorsed by the Committee. Billing compensation shall be a hand bill in which a discretionary amount is measured on a reasonable basis. The very basic idea of this compensation scheme is that it should be able to give an acceptance and recognition of the particularly unfortunate outcome of the claimant in relation to others with which it is natural to compare. The amounts of compensation are not intended to cover the losses incurred. In the Central Party, we are pleased that the proposed organisational changes will lead to a reduction in the length of the procedure, with fewer stages of the procedure. We are also pleased that a unanimous committee does not want a general limitation period in relation to access to justice. The reason is that it will vary from case to case to what extent documentation is difficult to obtain because the case is old, and it is true that formal conditions are set to minimise the possibility of applying for a cheap substitute. In the view of the Committee, we ensure that all applicants receive their applications assessed by the committee appointed by the Stortinget. All applications dealt with in substance will be reviewed and evaluated by two bodies, since the administrative body prepares the case and gives its opinion on the conclusion to the Billing Substitute Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26.ana.ud1337e165	I am a member of the Billing Replacement Committee, so I have looked forward to dealing with this issue and the procedure in these cases in Stortinget, because there have been some views on it in the past. But I think I can say, on behalf of the whole Committee on Compensation, that the current position is very satisfactory, and we agree with all of the views expressed by the Committee on Legal Affairs here. I just want to comment on a few things. I think it's important to get this up for treatment in so-called elected bodies, and to exercise some discretion in some cases. It has the background that individuals in society should be able to appeal to their affairs or put matters before politicians and political bodies and feel that someone is looking at whether they have been unfairly treated. We still have a number of people falling between several chairs, and there must be someone catching this up. A few comments on the procedure. It is obvious that in some cases the pre-treatment period and final decision are too long. At the same time, I would like to stress that the time from the Billing Subsidies Committee gets the cases to make their decision is not long, but it takes time for the departments to investigate matters properly and thoroughly. There I have to say that the departments do an excellent job. Acquiring professional information in different instances takes time if matters are to be properly dealt with. And that's where we really have the temporal problems, not after the Bill Compensation Committee has got the cases. Then it usually goes two to three months, and then it's done. So back to just this by bringing the elected organs into here. It's also important for another reason. We see that it is not uncommon for the different departments to have different views on whether to provide compensation or how high the compensation should be. Then there should be some people who are ‘judges’, who go in and put things in place, and say that like that, and it has to be right after. That's why I think it's important that some people come in here who exercise discretion as well. So on time and appeal time. I am very pleased that the Judicial Committee is not in favour of the proposal that a sort of blocking period be set for appeal. There are different stages in one's life, and if you are struck by a tragedy, an accident – what it may be – at a young age, this can be very late in life in different ways. Then we must not set a deadline for when we can deal with such matters; there are not so many things happening. So to that put a fixed amount for one group. Let me give you an example – The Storting did an excellent job in this regard – namely the lobotomy victims. You actually said $100,000 here, and you're done with it. But here too, individual individuals are being hit in a special way, and then judgement has to be exercised in the individual cases. Most people get NOK 100 000, but some people have been hit very hard after the interventions that were carried out at the time. I just want to mention them as these tragic interventions were done on when they were less than 10 years old – there is a difference between that and the intervention that was done on 60-70 year old people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26.ana.ud1337e186	Credit compensation is provided on the basis of a reasonable assessment, without any legal basis for liability. Thus, no one has any legal claim for such compensation. I am personally pleased that there is such an opportunity to give a handshake to people who have obviously come out unluckily, but who at the same time fall outside other compensation schemes. In St. prp. No 89 for 1995-96, the Ministry of Justice gave a general briefing on the system of cheap compensation. The Ministry then announced that it would initiate a review of the organisation of the scheme and the detailed principles of the scheme. Int. S. No 75 for 1996-97 the Judicial Committee joined the Ministry’s proposal and stated that such an investigation would provide the Storting with a better basis for assessing its own role in dealing with these cases. In St. prp. No 72 for 1998-99 the department made proposals for organisation, etc. in accordance with the guidelines given at the Innst. S. No 75 for 1996-97. In the opinion, the Committee asked, inter alia: whether an assessment of whether the administration was able to decide on matters at first instance. In line with this, and because the Ministry of Justice currently holds the secretariat function, the Ministry proposed that the first instance of the decision-making authority should be added to the Ministry of Justice for the time being with the right to apply to the Committee on Civil Liberties. The Ministry also assessed whether it would be appropriate to legislate the scheme, but found that the assessment of when compensation should be granted is insofar as it is politically and fairly based on the fact that the scheme would be ineffective for legal purposes. The Ministry therefore found no reason to propose legislative measures. The Ministry further proposed that there should be a general right of refusal for matters which, for various reasons, fall outside the scheme. I note that the Judicial Committee, in its position, has joined the Ministry of Justice's assessment of the principles of awarding, limiting and rejecting cases relating to cheap substitutes. I note that the Committee also agrees that the system is not suitable for regulatory purposes, since regulation can easily become so tight as to lose the ability to capture those who fall through the established and regulated security network of arrangements. Since the Ministry of Justice has the secretariat function, I am pleased with the clear signals that the Committee now gives when compensation can be provided. It will greatly facilitate our work. The Committee stresses in its opinion that the cheap compensation scheme is the Stortinge’s own scheme and that it is intended to be able to catch cases which appear to be eligible but which are not caught by other established compensation schemes. This suggests, in the Committee's view, that it is important that decisions be taken on the basis of public judgement, more than on a legal and regular basis. I record that, on this basis, the Committee is concerned to delegate power of decision to the administration, in particular as in this case, where there are no formal delegation rules. The Committee therefore concludes that the decision-making authority is to continue to be a member of the Committee on the Privilege Compensation. I have no problem with this conclusion. It emphasizes that this is the Storting's own system. At the Committee's recommendation, I assume that the Secretariat is currently in the Ministry of Justice. I also take note of the fact that the Committee proposes that there should be no appeal over the committee's decisions, but that political and, in principle, important issues should be brought before the Grand Duchy. I also agree with the considerations that several have come up with, that this represents a safety valve in a society that in many ways becomes formal, very easily regulated, and how many people can easily fall between several chairs. There have been important comments about it. All those remarks I take to my heart – to express myself this way – and I have the deepest sympathy for that way of thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26.ana.ud1337e207	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-26.ana.ud1337e215	Then we're ready for voting.
