ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e90	There are several permissive requests: An application for leave, the signatures of the delegation's leaders, President of the Stortinge, Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, is made from the upcoming Great Britain delegation to Sri Lanka. The application shall be valid for leave on 10 and 11 March of the President of the Grand Duchy of Kirsti Kolle Grondahl and the representatives Olav Gunnar Ballo, Fridtjof Fank Gundersen, Synnøve Konglevoll, Petter Løvik and Elsa Scarbøvik. The request for sick leave for the representative of Helene Falch Fladmark was made from Thursday 4 March until further notice. The representative of Grethe G. Fossum applied for leave on 10 and 11 March to attend a conference at Wilton Park in Steyning, England. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications are processed immediately and accepted.2. The following alternates are called to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: André Kukkestad.For Buskerud County: Frank Willy Larsen.For Finnmark County: Kirsti Saxi.For Hedmark County: Erling Brandsnes.For Møre and Romsdal County: Dagfinn Ripnes. For Oslo: Berit Kväven.For Troms County: Arne Bergland.For Vestfold County: Harald Solberg. Frank Willy Larsen, Dagfinn Ripnes and Harald Solberg are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet representatives of Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, Petter Løvik and Elsa Skarbøvik.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e175	Berit Kväven is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e180	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the sitting today – and see it as a decision. The President is asking for proposals to the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e185	I suggest Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e190	There's been suggestions about Per Ove Wideth as president. There are no other proposals, and Per Ove Wideth is elected by consensus as the chairman of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e193	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 will be processed together. It's going to be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e214	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist People's Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to a sequence change of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each party group and up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e225	Let me first fix two write errors in the inner. S. No 100. On page 6, last line in the first column, reference is made to a letter dated 12 January 1995. The correct year shall be 1999. On page 15 of the first line in the second column, it should be stated: Mobility in the housing market. St.meld. No 49 for 1997-98, on the establishment of housing for young people and the disadvantaged, and on the Committee's setting-up, Innst. S. No 100, in my opinion, gives a hope that in the future it will be easier to be a lodger, even if you are young and perhaps pale, or if you are defined as being disadvantaged on the housing market. My claim is that it is the setting that gives reason to believe in a more positive development, not the big shot message itself. And for those seeking housing, it is good that the Labour Party, the Government Parties and the Socialist Left Party in most cases form the majority of the vote. It is true, as the majority of the Committee points out, that the notification of the gross domestic product represents a documentation of the situation of young and disadvantaged people on the housing market. However, it does not contain any concrete measures, except that the message indicates that municipalities need to have action plans. A unanimous committee suggests that there is an increasing price pressure in parts of the housing market and that groups with poor economies suffer from some serious problems of establishment. This is particularly true of single caregivers, disabled people, immigrants and refugees, but also drug users and people with mental and social problems. The Committee also points out that since the announcement by the Government in June 1998, there has been a doubling of the housing interest rate, which clearly exacerbates the situation for this group as well. The Committee points out that both young and disadvantaged people have had problems in the housing market over time, and that this includes, among other things: because the rental market is too small. It is simply too few dwellings that are rented out. The majority of the Committee considers that there is a need for a concrete escalation from the year 2000 and that the housing should be distributed among rentals, low-deposit dwellings, book-collectives, student dwellings and small, nocturnal owner-occupied apartments. The majority of the committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, believe that 1000 more nights and reasonable dwellings must be built in 2000 than what is being built today. We are in favour of a concrete escalation plan, where there are to be 4 000 to 5 000 more dwellings per person. years in the coming years. This is a very positive signal to those who, for various reasons, have problems getting into the housing market. In the message, the department writes: ‘However, the government does not specifically wish to promote the broad development of rental dwellings in its own units of public ownership. The Ministry will not provide an estimate of the number of rental homes needed — either nationally, regionally or locally.’ Then it is good that the government parties here at Stortinget are more concrete and binding. However, it seems strange that the centre parties simultaneously refer to the 1995 Housing Survey from the NBI and indicate that the Ministry’s preliminary assessment is that 2 000 – 5000 dwellings are needed per year for a five-year period. This is mildly double accounting and cannot possibly be interpreted differently from the fact that the government parties have a bad conscience for past unrealistic promises. The Labour Party believes that it should be realistic, both economically and practically, for the Government to realise the majority's comment on 1000 more dwellings next year and a stepping-up plan. Here, both the House Bank, housing cooperatives, municipalities, local and private actors are important partners. It is right to ensure that the dwellings provided with significant State grants are retained as an offer to those who need it the most. Clausulation is a way of ensuring it. Given that the land costs are high in the press areas, it is very disappointing that only the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party believe that the Government must provide an overview of the country's land use that can be used or reregulated for residential purposes. I wonder what the center parties would have meant if they had not been in government. If the Government believes that municipalities need to make action plans, why can it not provide an overview of the areas for which it can give up for housing purposes? Social housing depends on reasonable land prices, and here the state could have contributed. In the case of particularly vulnerable groups, the Committee points out that there are now more than 6 000 homeless people in Norway. There is a need for greater knowledge of this group, but action should not be prevented. Here, however, we see that the Government is pushing the problems forward by pointing out that measures to provide housing for this group are to come when the so-called cohesion message, the big difference in society, is presented. It is mildly alarming that the government is providing a housing message that deals with disadvantaged people, without providing measures for the homeless. Some of these today live on the street and need shelter, not just for the night, but for the winter. The working party and SV therefore propose that, among other things: an immediate residence arrangement for the homeless is established. We believe that one or more of the measures should be reserved for women. In Trondheim, they have established an action for women who lack a place to be about the networks, and so far we have been informed that the 17 places are too few. It should therefore be possible to establish such offers, as the need is certainly also present in other major cities. Why does the Centre not support such an immediate arrangement? In this context, an overall committee considers it worrying that the use of this site is so widespread. It is an animal and very poor solution, and the use of the hospice must be reduced. The Committee also points out that among the disadvantaged, there are people with poor living capacity. Special measures, whether through the follow-up of social services or other types of lowthreshold services, need to be developed. Here, however, we must be careful. There are many who, for good reason, are insecure for neighbors such as have a problem with alcohol. It must be the responsibility of the municipality to provide proper follow-up, so that the problems become less and not greater for its neighbours. Some municipalities also face challenges because the relocation of refugees and asylum seekers is large, while other municipalities have the same group. Here, the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, want the Committee of Cooperation between the State and the Local Governments' Central Associations to go through this issue carefully. In particular, Oslo has the greatest challenges, and the majority believe that it should be assessed whether the municipality should not be given increased resources to address housing needs. The Committee emphasises that municipalities should establish their social housing programmes and considers this to be an important instrument, particularly for the large municipalities. However, there are considerable differences between municipalities, and it is clear that the biggest problems exist in the big cities, especially in Oslo. Oslo has come into good shape and has, among other things, Social housing programme 2 out for consultation. There is therefore no reason to wait for housing to be built pending plans. Nor should we forget, as one joint committee stresses, that many municipalities have housing programmes of different types, but that there is often a lack of integration with the other services. The house bank plays and will also play an important role in the future. It is necessary that house banking funds be channelled to the press areas. I am therefore pleased that the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV agree to ask the Government to review the Husbanken's arrangements to ensure that the Husbanken's instruments can be used effectively in the press areas as well. For many, the establishment loan is an important contribution to getting into the housing market. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that it is only the Labour Party and the Socialist Left that support the proposal to ensure a more similar practice than is the case today. The representatives of the House Bank have stated that many have the tougher housing market than is strictly necessary, because municipalities do not provide information on the possibility of setting up loans. There should be reason in itself good enough to look at the possibility of a more equal practice of the scheme. The Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party ask the Government to consider providing initial capital to a risk fund for certain types of rental properties, and then, according to the model of the risk fund built up under the direction of the Housing Cooperation, for housing properties. This majority believe that this contributes to a greater involvement of actors on whom we are totally dependent in order to build more rental homes. Therefore, the government is requested to report back in an appropriate manner how such a scheme can be established. The Committee supports the proposal for a stepping-up plan for the construction of several student homes and believes that this plan, inter alia: should also be a review of public land policy. However, there is a majority here in the UK who believe that the administration of the grant to student housing should remain under the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, and not as the Government proposes, to add it to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. That's not how you get the impression by reading the comments from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, that there will automatically be more student homes by the local and regional ministry taking over the administration. An overall committee opposes the closure of the Student Housing Advisory Body (ROS) and proposes it accordingly. An overall committee also asks for the Government to set up a public sample to explore the full scope of housing policy. Many have changed since the message Housing policy for the 90s was addressed in 1989. The term of office of the sample should be drawn up by the Ministry, but the Committee has set up a number of issues which should be included in this work. In the opinion of the Labour Party, we have mentioned important aspects of the development of the housing market that the sample should include in its work. The Committee considers that the sample should have two years and that the Government subsequently submits a housing notification for the next ten years. Then go to St.meld. No 14, on the operation of the Norwegian State Husbank 1996-97. An overall committee considers the message to be a good illustration of the Bank's function in terms of being the country's main instrument of housing policy. The role of the household bank in implementing the action plan for the care of the elderly has also been reflected in the message. It is also reassuring that cooperation with municipalities is good and that progress over the programme period is good. There is therefore no need to allow older people to go beyond the programme period of four years, as a majority has decided here on the Stortinget. A majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, believe that the social profile of the Bank's operations can be developed even better. In particular, the housing aid schemes and the establishment grant are concerned. The Committee points out that the message provides a specific assessment of the problems in Oslo and points out that the problems in the housing market in Oslo need to be given much more attention in relation to the role of the House Bank. The Committee points out that there is a need for greater resources in major cities to achieve the same standard of housing stock as in other parts of the country or municipalities. Finally, President: there is a clear majority, with the Labour Party, the Government Parties and the Socialist Left Party, in these two cases. Should I have a wish, it would have to be that the same parties formed a majority in housing policy when the budget for the year 2000 is being treated for the autumn. I would like to address the proposals made by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party in the East. S. No 100.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e306	The proposals will be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e311	I will first commend the representative Gaundal for her commitment to this important topic, and much of what she said, I have no problem agreeing with even though in some areas we reserve something. I noticed that the Workers' Party has suggested that they would have several non-profit rental properties, and the reason I took a reply was that I would like to have a clarification of what this is all about. Is it the case that the Workers' Party wants a large-scale expansion of public rental housing for people other than the groups we are talking about, young and disadvantaged? If I could get a clarification on this, that would be okay.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e318	As I said in my post, there is a versatile housing market with different types of housing we want. And we also want different types of actors involved in dealing with these problems, that is, there should be nothing in the way that both the municipality, the state, the housing cooperative or other actors should be able to help us with this issue. The main thing is that we get a result that makes it easier for the young and the disadvantaged to enter the housing market, and that those who move into the housing can be secured, so that in the future there will be no open market prices for these dwellings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e323	I will first be satisfied that the Labour Party in many of the most important matters in this message is in conjunction with the Government Party. We are very positive about this, and it may indicate a positive development in the future when it concerns the most important of the issues we are dealing with today. It's very important, and I'd like to give the Labour Party credit for that. I have a question because the government proposed a deal with the transfer to the House Bank when it concerns the planning of student housing. It was a grip that I personally had a lot of sense for, and I'm a little disappointed that the Labour Party can't follow it up. Here, an attempt is made to coordinate and use the Housing Competence of the House Bank, and a priority is given between student housing and other rental properties – because sooner or later, the different types of housing have to enter a priority and through a realization phase. It's clearly the positive way when it comes to care homes, because they're added to that institution. And since the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research also supports this, there must also be evidence that the Department of Education sees this as the most appropriate way to realize a student building project, which we are all well in need of an additional effort. That's why I want to hear if the Workers' Party is going to be able to evaluate, evaluate, the system we have, in the future, in view of such a reorganization to get the most efficient housing production for a group that needs it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e330	In the case of student accommodation, we see both housing and study places as a whole in relation to the well-being of the students. There is, as I said in my post, no automation in that by moving this from the Ministry of Church, Education and Research to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, there will thus be an increase in the development of student housing. But we also stress in our remarks that it is important that the construction of student housing becomes part of the municipal housing policy. But that doesn't mean that there's anyone other than the Student Society that stands for the expansion. And in many municipalities there is today extensive cooperation with the municipalities in the case of student housing, so we believe that it can be further developed and has no immediate assessment of changing it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e335	I record that the Workers' Party expresses joy at the fact that the Centre Party in the Storting is precise and binding as opposed to the Government. That's how it sounded to me anyway. It may also be that, in the context of reporting, it is easier to fluctuate at the level of ambition, and more difficult in budgetary terms and in concrete proposals to follow it up. My question to the case leader here is about the Workers' Party, despite the fact that they are asking for plans from the Government, feels that they have an adequate tool to achieve the goal that we are reading about in the press, a twenty thousand housing units in the next four years, and whether they have thoughts of economic follow-up in budgetary context, as this is a matter of great government support. I have recorded that SV has talked about a billion, and that the Labour Party, in the signals we have received so far, is much lower, so the question is whether we can get it a little more precise when it comes to the idea of tools and the willingness to go in close budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e342	To be honest, I think for the Workers' Party that it's signaling a thousand more dwellings than what's being built per. Today, in the 2000 budget, to the extent that it is sober and realistic. The costs – we have seen letters from the department where they signal that with today’s support scheme it can cost 130 million. kr, and we've probably thought that maybe we should be able to get to 200 million. kr next year to reverse the trend in the rental market. I fully agree with Mr Hoddevik that the fact that the Socialist Left signals one billion in the budget review is an over-the-counter, and we in the Labour Party cannot be involved in it. That means that the market is going to take away one billion in six months, and that's not going to work. That is why we believe that our proposals on which we are associated with the intermediate parties and the Socialist Left are a realistic level on which we should work together when the budget is to be presented and dealt with before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e347	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e351	The Committee does not, in fact, have any major divergent views in this respect, although the Progress Party has certain reservations in some areas. I refer you to the comments of the Progress Party in the setting. There is a broad cross-political agreement that the main objective of Norwegian housing policy should be to enable everyone to have a good housing in a good housing environment. The main pillar of the post-war housing policy in Norway has been to facilitate the widest possible ownership of its own housing. This policy has been successful, and Norway is currently one of the countries in Europe where the largest proportion of the population owns their own private housing. In Norway, it has always been considered quite natural that it is primarily a private and personal responsibility to obtain their own housing. So the general rule is still going to be that way. But at the same time, it is clear that there are a certain number of people who have so many problems of either a social, health or economic nature that they have a clear need for public assistance to manage to obtain adequate housing. Sick, elderly, disabled, debilitated and other persons are all examples of people who need to be defined as being within the concept of disadvantaged in the housing market and who have to be considered as eligible for public assistance in order to obtain a housing offer. The right to dispose of a place of residence is also enshrined in the law, and the municipalities have a significant responsibility here. In a competitive housing market characterised by too low construction activity and a partly high level of interest and price, it is obvious that not all will have the same opportunities to obtain their own housing, and some people face almost insurmountable problems in obtaining a housing offer. And I'd like to admit that this is a difficult thing to find adequate solutions to. There is no doubt that the principles for providing adequate housing, including for the disadvantaged, should be based on several different strategies. Firstly, I am skeptical that the public through the state or the municipality should initiate a large-scale construction and purchase of dwellings for these purposes. The public should not possess a large number of dwellings, in any case, in my view. This is a view also shared by the Government, which points out that there will be no going in to provide substantial support for the large-scale development of public rental housing. So here we agree with the Government. The solutions should also be to stimulate private rental and private development of housing units adapted to the groups concerned and to limit public responsibility to financing and financial assistance for the implementation of such projects. In this way, the house rental law we are going to deal with in Odelstinget later today could have had a somewhat better arrangement in some areas. The main challenge for housing policy is to aim for a smoother development of the housing building rate from year to year, without major fluctuations. A more steady rate of construction activity, which does not give rise to price pressures and rising housing prices, will be beneficial in order to maximise the financial capacity to obtain and own their own housing. An increase in the rate of housing construction will also affect the entire housing market and could contribute to the creation of an increased housing capacity that would be better able to absorb several of the people with problems today. In itself, for increased housing, all groups of the people, including those within the concept of disadvantaged people, could benefit. But even if we were to reach the point where enough housing was built, there would still be people who were unable to get their own home. These must, as mentioned above, take responsibility for the large community and several of the proposals outlined in the Communication should therefore be followed up as appropriate instruments to improve the conditions for those who have the greatest difficulty in obtaining either their own housing or their own housing. Young first-time start-ups and students are also two important groups in the housing market that should improve living and living conditions. In addition to providing housing, many of these young people also have study loans, car loans and a number of other expenses that most people have. Several young people who have recently built or bought houses usually have a loan debt of about 1 million. kr. For their part, the high level of interest rates is a weighty challenge, which, together with the disbursement of the significant loan debt on the dwelling, can create a difficult economic situation for them. It is therefore a significant challenge to set up wage, financial and currency policies in a way that will help us to achieve a lower and stable level of interest rates soon. Today’s interest rate level is and will be a major challenge for young people who should or who have just settled, and do not decrease interest rates, well-being is of little use in facilitating an active and good housing policy for all in Norway. The interest rate is and will be a key factor for the entire housing policy. The economic conditions for first-time start-ups in the housing market are largely determined by the functioning of society around them. Both the economic cycle, the level of unemployment, the price of crowns, oil prices, fiscal policy, wage policy and the level of interest rates have a significant impact on the construction activities and housing situation of all groups in Norway. I would also like to point out that it may seem strange that there have been no more student housing built in recent years. Now, as all parties seem to agree, there should be substantial efforts to increase the number of student housing, as this would be a very favourable way of improving the conditions of the housing and rental market. If we build several student homes, this could result in a significant dampening of the pressure in the housing and rental market, especially in the big cities. I would therefore like to stress that the construction of student housing is a very favourable housing policy strategy which should be taken more seriously. I would also like to take the opportunity to mention that, in my view, it is important that the housing does not become a tax item, which we have seen recently. We know that in a new dwelling there is a price of approx. One million. kr, of which the direct public charges amount to around one third. It is a cross-thinking that public and politicians themselves contribute to making housing very expensive through both requirements and rules, and through some high taxes and taxes imposed on housing, both when it is built, and through different types of housing taxes on the dwellings that stand there. A housing policy that stimulates new buildings, rentals, the purchase and sale of dwellings, urban renewal and rehabilitation, the sale of land, housing policy without too many unnecessary restrictions on land use and with a minimum of heavy-duty obstacles in the form of – to say – unreasonable planning and building laws is all crucial to achieving the main objectives of housing policy we agree on in Norway. And of course, I believe that all the parties here at Stortinget will do what they can to contribute positively to this process. For the point is that we should take a take-off for the groups mentioned in St.meld. No 49, the main challenge is to create a well-functioning housing market and a good and efficient housing sector, and that we have politicians who are deliberately involved in the problems and challenges that arise at all times in the Norwegian housing market. Politicians, who put the framework conditions for the housing market, should actively facilitate the solution of the problems we see, and I believe that here we all have a special responsibility for the groups it refers to in St.meld. No 49. I will also be allowed to say a few words about St.meld. No 14 on the activities of the Norwegian State Husbank 1996-97. It presents in a reasonably transparent and orderly manner the activities of the House Bank and the various loan and grant schemes managed by the Bank as part of a social housing policy. I would also refer to the Progress Party's own comments, which show that the general view of the party is that privatisation of central banks is a central objective, and that this will promote competition and ensure equal treatment for all borrowers. Furthermore, it is noted with satisfaction that the 1996 conversion of the Husbank's interest rate policy towards a more market-driven interest rate policy has been carried out, and it seems to be working well. The Progress Party has pointed out in its comments that it is unfortunate that the Husbank has a monopoly on the distribution of state aid for housing as long as the Husbank both manages and distributes start-up loans and housing support. The Progress Party considers the housing aid scheme to be appropriate in Norway and notes that Norway is the Nordic country which spends at least money on housing aid schemes and which at least subsidises housing construction overall. This is gratifying, and it shows that the Norwegian housing market works well, perhaps best in the whole Nordic region. This shows that, after all, we have a relationship with the housing sector in Norway with which we should be reasonably satisfied. I take up the suggestions from the Advance Party and the Right, which are included on page 16 of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e391	Torbjørn Andersen has drawn up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e396	The party of progress has a lot of light solutions, and this is also true in this case. The Progress Party claims that a failed immigration policy is responsible for much of the pressure on the housing market, especially in Oslo. The Progress Party claims that the pressure on housing prices in Oslo would not have been of such a magnitude as we see today if there had been a much stricter control over immigration to the country in the last 25 years. So the solution of the Progress Party in providing enough housing is to close the border. At the same time, we read in Today's Business on Monday that Norway needs many more immigrants in the years to come, because we need immigrants in the job vacancies that we cannot fill with Norwegians. How will the Progress Party solve the problems of health and care needs and in other areas if we are to address the solution of the Progress Party, which is to close all borders in order to solve the problems on the housing market? The Progress Party also writes in the preamble that refugees seconded to municipalities should be refused to move to cities as long as they are not Norwegian citizens. Why should immigrants as the only group be denied, when everyone else in this country can move freely between municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e405	To the representative Signe Eye: It's strange, I think, to mix what she mixes here. What's in those notes is a purely factual description and no special opinion in any direction. It describes the actual situation in Oslo, which is that a large part of the problem that exists on the housing market there is due to the influx of a large number of refugees, asylum seekers and immigrants. One can't ignore this, it's a truth. In that note, we have only shown the actual conditions. To attack it, I find it remarkable. With regard to the need for labour, I have no understanding that it will be involved in this debate. I thought we were talking about the need for housing and the lack of housing for young and disadvantaged people. Here the terms are mixed in a way that I think is strange. As far as the representative Signe Eye is concerned, I have noticed that she is very concerned about immigration policy. I had actually not expected that there would be any theme here today. But when she first takes it up, it must be allowed to stress that what I refer to in that context is the policy we have laid down in our political programme, which has been written in a way that is completely inviolable. That's why I find it strange that I should get a line on that particular piece. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e414	An important part of housing policy must, of course, be to provide housing for those who are to fill jobs in Norway, so there is a clear link here. But the Progress Party, which is a party that believes in the market, can perhaps, when they think that housing problems in Oslo come from so many immigrants here, explain why there is the greatest price pressure in the urban areas where there are no immigrants, while prices are much lower in the urban areas where there are most immigrants, and where there are also the worst housing conditions. That doesn't even match the theory at all. At the end of his post, the representative of the Progress Party said that little money was spent on housing policy in Norway, and they are satisfied with that. Yes, but how is the Progress Party going to help build more student homes if they're not going to spend more money? Is there anyone else on this housing market going to lose money? We have to get an answer to that. The Progress Party also says that they want to close the House Bank, that customers go into the usual housing market, and then all borrowers will have a similar offer. Does not the Progress Party know that people with poor advice have never received a loan offer in the usual market of the regular banks that it is possible to serve? If they get a loan at all, they get the most expensive loans with the worst terms. That's what the usual banking market can offer people with bad advice. And that must mean that the state must bring even greater subsidies to that market in order for this to work. So finally, to get cheap dwellings, plots are an important question — cheap or free plots. The party has recently joined and been willing to give away very valuable plots to people who do not need them at all. Is it possible for the Progress Party to contribute to the granting of cheap land by the State and the municipality to those who need it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e428	Once again, immigrants and the housing situation in Oslo are coming on the track. As I said in my previous answer, I have only shown the actual situation in Oslo. The fact that prices are lower in the east of Oslo compared to the west is probably related to the fact that living conditions there are somewhat worse, it is less attractive to live there. One has just got the ghetto state that the Progress Party has previously warned against would occur. So what has happened with low housing prices and poor housing conditions on the east side has happened despite the Progress Party's warnings about this. As regards subsidisation, housing policy and the House Bank, we have considered that the Husbank should be privatised. Housing support and start-up loans are schemes that can be managed through the ordinary banking system, so that one can continue to maintain that bit of social housing support policy without the House Bank necessarily being a state bank. In the last question, about plots, I can actually answer yes. I would like to vote in favour of the proposal that has been put forward on this. I think it is a good suggestion that a review should be carried out and see if it is possible to use the state's grounds, for example. for student or other useful residential purposes. In fact, I agree with that is a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e437	The Progress Party is a party that believes that market forces should be able to regulate most, and wants public intervention to be very small in most areas. What's happening in the housing market in Oslo now is the result that it's being built too little. Although prices have risen, the market forces do not work so that they are built enough. I guess that's because there's opportunities to make better use of other things. There's a lot of people moving to Oslo. It could have moved smaller people to Oslo if more public funds had been put in to counteract centralization. The move to Oslo today is so strong that it should have been built three-four times more per. years than what is being built. It's hard to believe that construction is going to take up so much, and it might also look like it's hard to slow down centralization. The representatives of the Progressive Party have said from the Chair of the Stortinge that centralisation, among other things, is a key issue. shall be slowed down by high housing prices. It affects some first-time start-ups — young people — in Oslo who have to pay a price they cannot afford, and it affects others who are in a difficult situation. The Progress Party has helped to remove the opportunities we had to regulate the construction of commercial buildings in particularly pressing situations, as more dwellings could be built instead of commercial buildings. Right now there is an increase in the construction of commercial buildings that reduces the construction of housing in Oslo. Does not the Progress Party consider that there might be reason to reconsider its view of the possibilities for the market to solve the problems we are now talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e446	In my post I was just thinking that in Norway the housing sector is a little regulated. It's mainly driven by market forces. This has led to a large number of self-owners in Norway, larger than in other Nordic countries, and we have a housing and housing sector that has worked reasonably well all year long, precisely because market forces have been available. Of course, the fact that many move to Oslo is a problem we have to take seriously. There are really no good solutions to it as far as I can see, except to build more dwellings. There's a shortage of land that could be the problem in Oslo. The representative Lund expresses great concern about the market forces, even when he knows that the Norwegian housing sector is very little regulated. It's a deregulated housing sector we're talking about, and after all, it works. There are built houses, there are a significant number of rental homes, and the housing situation in Norway is good compared to most other countries. Then the representative comes to Lund and asks if we will review the impact of market forces on the housing market. I don't make this rhyme in any way. Here we have a fundamental disagreement. We have two fundamentally very different ways of looking at this. On the one hand, there is the belief that market forces are the most positive element in solving the problems, and on the other hand, the belief that public regulation and subsidies are the best element.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e457	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e460	The aim of this debate must be to enable everyone to have a good housing in a good environment. I would first like to stress that it is positive that the Government has been promoting this message, and that they have seen important housing issues in the right place on the agenda. Both the message and the reading in the committee provide a good basis for a future housing policy in Norway. The Committee has also been on the lookout in Sweden and Finland and noted that the Norwegian housing market is mainly functioning well, but that some adaptations are needed to reach some groups that otherwise fall outside this good supply of housing, which I believe is a relatively wide deal that should be in place. In Norway, there is not only one housing market, but many. Therefore, local action plans are important in order to be able to put in place targeted actions. These local action plans should be developed by the municipalities in close cooperation with the Husbanken, housing teams, Student Cooperation and competent willing and local actors. It is important that municipalities meet this challenge. In the municipalities in particular, where pressure problems and relocations are involved and where there is a lack of supply, it is important that a serious consideration be given to the task of developing plans that both show the need for different housing and at the same time have an overview of the required land area where this housing can be found without delay when the funds arrive. In the present year’s government budget, the transfer to the House Bank is increased by DKK 1 billion. This will enable the House Bank to respond more closely to local housing needs. The government aims to follow up the local action plans with start-up loans, purchase loans, entry loans and housing allowances. It is especially in Oslo and the other major cities that the pressure in the housing market is the best. It's especially here that there are many with permanently low incomes. Combined with a high price level, this creates a difficult situation that should not last over time. Against this background, the Stortinget Government asks to create a stepping-up plan for the construction of student buildings. Included in this review is the requirement for parking space, which is assessed as a request, and land policy associated with student housing. The concerns of the disadvantaged in the housing market also need to be emphasised, so that the House Bank is given the opportunity to prioritise Oslo and other cities for a period of time more strongly than today. Municipalities should pay particular attention to the spread of rentals for all groups in ordinary residential areas. In this context, it is right to see that Stortinget recently decided on a statutory access to the municipal purchase of apartments in barges, and I argued that the municipalities would discharge their responsibility for their tenants. It is also right in this context to refer to the Equalization message, which we expect will come during the spring, where one will address the housing needs of deferred groups in a more detailed way. That's why you'll be able to come back to these special issues later this year. The Christian People's Party, together with the other centre parties, has for several years had a high profile and suggested increased investment in housing, without getting more for it, in good years for the country. This year, too, the government is proposing, despite tightening up the state budget to reduce interest rates, to invest in increased housing construction. At the same time as we present an offensive program in this message, we accept that these questions must find their annual solutions in the budgetary processes. This message challenges the various parts of the building sector to find solutions through an active collaboration. I would like to end by saying that the Government and the Ministry are going to make concrete and implement an offensive building program.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e479	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e483	The representative of the Christian People's Party, Olaf Gedrem, started his speech by saying that everyone should have a home in a good living environment. And I think we can agree on that. But I would like to hear why the Christian People's Party and the other centre parties oppose proposal No. 2 from the Workers' Party and SV, which is that we want an immediate action for the homeless. During the treatment we have been to Urtegata and have both seen and heard what the Salvation Army is working on. They say that more than 250 people are in there every day to get the offer of the Salvation Army giving them. Why, then, does the Christian People's Party and the Centre parties push this forward by saying that we should deal with this when the big-time message of balancing the differences in Norway comes to spring? Now that we are dealing with the disadvantaged, and there are homes that are involved, I do not understand that it is necessary to push it in front of me. There's a lot we can address in a balancing message that goes beyond housing, but that's now we're dealing with the housing issue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e490	I believe that, as far as the question is concerned, I understand that, but we have chosen to refer to the anti-sampling message in the committee of the centre party. We have great faith in it, because it represents a systematic review of these troubled people, including the housing situation. We find it most correct, as it is only a week before this message is presented, to decide on such specific matters in the context. Now that this is on the stairs, we find it a little unfortunate to take out a bit and try to find a solution to it now. We prefer to focus on finding a wholeness through this message, to which the Government attaches great importance, and which is also an important part of the Declaration of Adulthood – that one should pay attention to these postponement groups and have a planned policy approach to raise these difficult-going living conditions and then also, of course, housing needs. We are confident that the Government and the Ministry will come back with a package solution for these. There seems to be something half-hearted and shared to take part in this problem now. We would rather have confidence that the Government will follow this up, also with the signals that have come in committee handling, and so far in the debate in the Stortinge today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e495	I regret to some extent that the comments of the government parties in this setting regarding rental properties create some confusion. When the Christian People's Party and the Center in a note quantifies a need for 4,000 to 5,000 rental homes in the years to come, is it meant to be a binding order from the government parties to their government, or is it to be perceived as a pious wish? Will the representative Gedrem agree with the view expressed in the evening of yesterday's evening post that today the Stortninget almost adopts such a level of expansion for the years ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e500	At the initiative of me, send the Committee on a question to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, asking for an overview of expected needs, especially in the press areas, for housing for disadvantaged people over the years to come. In response to the Committee, it became relatively clear that there is a great need for housing for some disadvantaged groups who would otherwise have problems in the years to come. On this basis, the Christian People's Party found it possible to agree to a formulation in this setting that is at the request of the Government to facilitate the realization of such housing construction that is sketched and with the numbers mentioned. In my speech, I nevertheless stressed that these questions must be seen in the context of the annual budget. I also added that the Government has the objective of leading an active housing policy, and despite the narrowing of the state budget to bring interest down, one still has the power to set an increase of NOK 1 billion to the House Bank. It's an expression of an asset, but I also believe a realistic goal of a policy that the government will follow in the government budgets that are being promoted for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e509	«Active» is not exactly the word that runs in my mind when I now hear the contributions of the Christian People's Party. It's very difficult to get the feeling that they're burning for this, and I have to say that I'm disappointed. Because, as Aud Gaundal was up and said instead, this is about a lot of people who actually don't have a roof over their heads. And that hasn't happened this year. It happens every year. It happens every year. So governments that have been sitting before have a great responsibility for this, but I actually think that the Christian People's Party and the Government here do, seem half-hearted, when one does not try to propose measures now that could do anything about this. Then you're referring to the Equalizer message. You could say a lot about it, but it's probably late, and I have to admit that I'm upset, I'm angry, and I'm disappointed that we can't solve this in another way. I was very grateful when the Minister of Labour and Administration on a tight arm tried at least to offer some government property that could solve some of this. I perceived it as a signal that now one was taking hold of this in relation to those who actually do not have a roof over their heads. But the signals now become very different. And when the answer, as the representative Gedrem also gives the Right Representative, is just an invitation to build more, it means that the government parties do not actually have concrete plans to contribute money for these purposes in the government budget. I think people will be told about it now and that you should stop writing all the good wishes, because it leads people behind the light.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e521	I just want to replicate that I have great confidence in this Government and in the parties that are behind it, and that there will be a bet on these areas. It has been such a heavy commitment in this area that a government council led the work of the message to which it is now being referred, which systematically identifies the need and outlines measures for these disadvantaged people. I appreciate the commitment and the intensity of Karin Andersen's line, but I have confidence that we're going to be able to realize this. As a sort of strengthening of the threat, I will repeat that a deficit in a tight budget has been committed to this sector in the last year. The government has also stated in its basic document that this is an important area. This prevents Difference Norway from providing such an unacceptable standard for important groups. It must be history as soon as possible. I have great confidence that the Government will follow this up in a planned way, and that it is not set to jump on light and immediate solutions that are outlined in a process, but that a choice to take this up in a systematic way, so that the result can be well and well thought out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e530	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e533	The two approaches to housing policy that the Stortinget is dealing with today show a certain degree of cross-political consensus. If we look back a few years, it's remarkable in itself. The housing market in Norway is in practice just over 15 years old. Until the beginning of the 1980s, both the housing market and the credit market were regulated so that the prices of many apartments were artificially low and the property market was poor. The deregulation of the Willoch government was at that time controversial, and it is therefore worth noting the results of this deregulation: the government beats in St.meld. No 49 for 1997-98, ‘the housing situation of the vast majority of Norway is good’. However, a broad majority of the Committee agrees on a commitment to disadvantaged people in the housing market to relieving those who are not per year. today fits in with this description. This applies to some extent to young people and first-timers, and to other groups with poor living conditions over a period of several years. The right separates layers by the majority in some choices of instruments. The right wants to improve and target the instruments, with the House Bank at the head, against these weak groups, while the majority refuses to give priority to and choose Ole Brumm's praise of both milk and honey, both public-interest measures and measures against disadvantaged people. The right has joined the Committee of the Regions in pointing out the need to step up the development of youth-oriented housing and initial start-ups. But at the same time, there is reason to wonder that both the previous government party, the Workers' Party, and the present have dared to figure out a desire to start the construction of 4,000 to 5,000 more rental homes per year. years in the coming years. This was sold in large quantities in front of the press, so that the evening mail yesterday presented it as a decision proposal in Stortinget. The right notes that only SV has submitted a concrete decision-making proposal on a numerical bet, and assumes that this from the other parties can almost be regarded as an election campaign play, which I hope will be put in the drawer if the SV's proposal is not supported today. The right is skeptical of the ambiguity the majority creates by referring to a new national rental housing programme in the form of a note. The comments are unclear. It is very unclear whether these rental dwellings should be targeted at particularly disadvantaged people, or at young people with low incomes in general. Right-wing believes a bet on publicly funded public-interest housing is a derailment of the need to obtain a better rental market. Our solution is a further change in the way public funds and subsidies are to follow the person and are assessed according to the individual’s needs, and not to follow the housing. In order to obtain targeted housing subsidies, it is important to ensure that funds used for housing subsidies are used only for social criteria. This means right-hand rental dwellings administered by municipalities within a municipal action plan, or dwellings linked to life situations with limited income. This applies, for example: students and student housing. The right proposes to combine such targeted housing subsidies with housing support schemes against groups of low paying ability and against top-level funding schemes and savings schemes for first-time start-ups with low equity. Large-scale diffuse schemes for the construction of ‘general’ rental dwellings are not suitable to meet the needs of the housing market. The same is true of the general entry loans for new dwellings. The government defends the entry loans in the House Bank of St. ermeld. No 14 to the effect of these loans in districts, in municipalities with little concentrated housing. It is in a certain relief to the concern of an overall committee that the problems in the housing market are greatest in the big cities, with the greatest pressure in Oslo. Therefore, the right asks the question, as we have sometimes done in the past: why not abolish the entry-loan scheme through the Husbank and also re-establish the establishment loan scheme, so that the recipient groups can be served by the regular banks? The right hand party and the Progress Party propose that an assessment be made of how this can be achieved by providing certain guarantees for low-capital dwelling buyers in relation to the loan sum. It is also a paradox that the Government in this message claims that the purpose of the entry loans ‘has not been to compete with the private banks’. But the effect of increased competition and the fact that more mortgages in District Norway were left to private banks would be a small contribution to preventing the closure of banking branches outside. The right is pleased that there is a majority in the Committee asking for a review of the effect of the House Bank financing only dwellings of more than 50 m2. In Oslo, this requirement has led to the demand for affordable one-room apartments of reasonable standard not being met. Few new ones have been built, while changes in recent years have led to the disappearance of a number of such dwellings. Finally, there is a joint committee that goes in to build more student homes. Right is part of the majority that has rejected the Government's proposal to transfer the student housing grant to the Husbanken. Student relations have themselves rejected the proposal and have shown that the current management of the grant is working well. In the view of the Right, it is the legislation that needs to be adjusted, and I refer to the remarks the majority made in the Budgetary Section. S. No 12 just before Christmas. The right is concerned with the need to improve the balance of the housing market. For example, an increase in the coverage of student cabins in the largest cities will be of importance for other low-income housing applicants, because the pressure will be reduced on the other rental market of reasonable, smaller apartments. Similarly, it is important that the lessors of the furniture and apartments are given stable and reasonable conditions. Most of these landlords are ‘unprofessional’ in the sense that there are owner-occupiers renting out parts of the owner-occupiers. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have proposed that the Government look at the tax rules for such rentals for the purpose of clarification and have a certain hope that the majority may join this proposal. It is also good that Odelstinget later today takes an important step forward towards an open rental market, by lifting the last house rental regulations in Trondheim and Oslo. Similarly, I would like to point out that a simplification of the Planning and Building Act would prevent both the destruction and delay of construction projects, as we see progress at present. The parties that make up the bulk of the population have been through a healthy maturation in housing policy in recent years, in the direction of deregulation of instruments and the liberalisation of the housing market. It is therefore important to remember that the housing market and problems for young and disadvantaged people are more affected by the other framework conditions Stortinget decides than by the beautiful words Stortinget had to express today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e571	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e574	It's true, as the representative from the Right says, that in some areas the other parts separate layers by the Right. It is all right when we disagree politically, for example in relation to the role of the House Bank, and on what basis the House Bank will operate in the housing market. There we disagree politically. But in the case of a point on page 11 in the setting, I don't understand why we're separating layers. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left propose that: The government must «to review the establishment loan scheme in order to ensure a more similar practice than is the case today». In the comment from the Right, it is said that they: ‘is critical of the way in which the establishment loan schemes operate. Different income limits from municipality to municipality provide different treatment’. What, then, is the reason from the Right to oppose the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e591	The right, as the representative Mr Gaundal points out, has not supported that proposal. On the side that goes on the Husbank's role in the housing market vis-à-vis these groups, the Right, together with the Progress Party, has a completely separate note, asking for a conversion of the Husbank's loan scheme and the start-up loans to the first-time start-ups on the principle that the loans should primarily go through the ordinary banking market. We have said that we subsidiaryly support a review of the Husbank's arrangements in the press areas. We have not signaled equivalent subsidiary support for the proposal to review the establishment loan scheme. It is true that we do not believe the problems that lie primarily in what the Workers' Party here points out, but that the scheme should have been more completely revised. However, it is not a big issue for us, but our main concern is that the system should be reformed more fundamentally than what Aud Gaundal is after. It is important that even first-time start-ups can obtain loans in ordinary banks. The initial failure of the founder is equity collateral beyond the 60 pst. or 80 pst. which banks offer. It should be possible for the State to organise, offer guarantees, in the same way as it does today, in terms of securing student finance loans.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e597	The representative Ryssdal is concerned with the ambiguity of others' comments. I will try to clarify what the Right believes in the issue of government subsidies to be linked to people, or whether it should be able to follow projects that facilitate problems for people. In the setting, the right hand side says that «The main principle of housing policy for young and disadvantaged people should be that the measures are personalised». The right goes on to say that experience has shown that public regulation: ‘has a tendency to provide a strongly subsidised supply to a few, while many in a similar situation and often more difficult situation remain unsolicited’. The majority of the Committee considers that if one links a government grant to a project, the project could be used by one after the other. The subsidy will then benefit everyone. But if you connect it to someone, it'll be the first person to get the help. So the majority want a clause that makes the aid follow the project. I'll mention an example from Trondheim of what kind of rash it gets when it doesn't happen. A stand-alone housing team received grants for elderly dwellings – DKK 180 000. After one year, the person living in one apartment died, and the sales rate gave the relatives a gain of NOK 400,000 – it was a central apartment. There was no such clause, and it was only the first to get the help. The relatives probably did not need the money to the same extent as the next person who moved into the apartment would have had. So because of the lack of a clause, no more help came to the rescue. Is that the line that seems to be the most effective in using public money to solve housing problems?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e611	The representative Lund pointed out that parts of the setting are difficult to access, I have to say that when I have not followed the work on the setting – just to read it for three days now – both the housing policy and part of what is here are a little difficult to get into. But there is no doubt that the Right has a somewhat more nuanced view of what should be personalised measures, than what you mentioned. There's a couple of other relationships where we also go in for, for example, local measures in the municipalities. However, for the example you mentioned with project-oriented actions versus personalised: the experience with project-oriented actions includes, among others, one of the reasons why someone is now lifting the rent regulation in Oslo. It's just the kind of thinking you're referring to, which has led to a low rent in parts of the city, which has led to low mobility in terms of the apartments, a high level of rent, and that there are often other people living there than those intended. I guess that would just be the effect of such an apartment that you're talking about here. In this case the person died, but in other cases a person would not move out, and kept the apartment in his possession instead of benefiting others. Using a housing aid scheme, and using other personalised measures, the funds are just going to the person concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e618	The President will note that the speech in the Chamber should not be direct, but go through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e621	Categorized dwellings will prevent speculation by state resources, and non-contributory dwellings will prevent them from being let on or passed on to persons who do not meet the same criteria to obtain them. That is the very point of such a non-profit sector. The right-hand side says that they mainly want to use housing support as a housing policy tool. I guess they're serious. As they see that there are several problems in the housing market, it must mean that the Right also intends to increase the housing aid to some extent. Does the Right not see that the increased use of housing aid would be price driven on the rental market and that, by unilaterally using it, the sector of the Norwegian housing market, which is almost absent, should not be built up? In Norway, we have 4 pst. social housing. The EU average is 18 pst. In Sweden they have 22 pst. This means that the housing market in Norway is significantly different from that in almost all other countries to which we can compare. Does not the Right then see that such a one-sided bet will mean driving up the prices of the rental market, and that this money only goes to those who own it? So finally, the right says they're going to bet on student housing. They have also made proposals there before. However, if a bet on student housing is to be a major instrument in the housing effort in the future – in order for it to mean something for the amount, and in order for prices to subside – it must actually mean a certain volume. It's not useful with 200-300 or anything like that. Don't we start by approaching the number that the Right now calls election vows from others, and that we actually think it's right to get funds for?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e632	I'll try to make the president feel like I'm talking to him. I'll bet on that in this reply. The representative, Andersen, pursued a little bit of the problem that the previous representative had to deal with. It is short and good that the Right addresses several schemes for project-oriented actions. What we're skeptical about in this setting are new, general, general rental housing projects, as the majority mentions. What we've said is positive is that local authorities are launching projects aimed at groups that have difficulty getting into the housing market, or that are disadvantaged in other ways. For example, young people, who mainly have the problem of having little equity, have temporary poor advice — which is true of most people. The aim must then be to ensure that there are more smaller apartments available. The aim must be to ensure that when building student housing, several of the other smaller apartments become available to others — at all events ensure that the market functions better. The right-hand side has also said in the general remarks that we are aware that there is a need for an increase in the number of dwellings in pressed strips. What we think is election fighting, is that one makes a lot of suggestions in the newspapers that a specific figure is needed on how many dwellings are to be built for that purpose in the future, but do not dare venture to promote something as concrete as a proposal in the vote. We believe that this is primarily a proposal with a withdrawal period after the elections, which has expired before the budget comes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e641	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e644	It is an overall committee that shows that many young people and other economically disadvantaged groups have had long - term housing problems. As early as 1996, there was an overall municipal committee which concluded that the development of different types of housing for young people and initial start-ups needs to be significantly increased. The Central Party is pleased that the Government and the Committee agree on the situation description and that both the Committee and the Ministry consider that more needs to be built for young people and other disadvantaged people in the coming years as a single measure. The Ministry states in a letter dated 12 February 1999 that the preliminary assessment provides for an extra charge of 2000-5000 dwellings for this group each year for the next five years. The majority of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV have similar ambitions according to their comments. Both the Government and the Committee believe that priority should be given to the most disadvantaged, and that the Husbank must therefore contribute more in Oslo and in other cities for a period of time. There is agreement between the Committee and the Government that there are local action plans from each municipality to provide a basis for state support for the additional investment in the housing sector that is now needed. There is also agreement that no new house rental regulation should be established for the additional rental dwellings to be established. With such broad consensus on both the situation description and the need for action, the Government provides a good basis for continuing the reinforced and more targeted investment in the housing policy under way. Let me remind you that the loan ratio to the House Bank was increased by NOK 1 billion last autumn, after a steady and strong decline since 1993. The housing allowance has been increased after the government change, after a significant decrease over the previous two years. The appropriations for the housing aid scheme have never been higher than for the current year and have become a highly targeted scheme. It is obvious that we have more major housing problems in Oslo than anywhere else in the country. The strong centralisation with which the country has been plagued for a long time is an important cause. At the same time, housing in Oslo has been too low for many years. Figures from the analyst’s 1998 forecasting centre AS show a deficit of 30,000 dwellings. New forecasts suggest that the population in the capital will increase by 70,000 people over the next 15 years. That'll be enough to fill 35,000 new homes. At the same time, less than 2,000 dwellings are built in Oslo this year. It is alarming that the price increase resulting from the lack of housing does not lead to an increase in construction. The market’s governance is likely to fail because the construction operators have served better in recent years in the construction of commercial buildings and that the authorities have given up the regulatory opportunities they had, inter alia. by means of the Act of Establishment. It looks like this is going to continue. The number of dwellings started in January this year was 15 pst. lower than in the same month last year, while the area in other types of construction started to increase by 9 pst. It is necessary both to slow down centralisation and to help those who have to pay the price of centralisation in the press areas. It is a solid majority who want housing provided with significant State subsidies to be retained as an offer to those who need it the most by following the housing rather than the person. In order to achieve this, there is a need for a clause on the dwelling and an agreement with non-commercial builders. The centre party considers that the Right model with significant State grants is directly addressed to, for example: Initial start-ups will provide very little help for the money. In the long run, such a system will be very precious to society. Municipalities have an obligation to facilitate housing construction and to help provide housing for people who cannot take care of their own interests in the housing market. Providing temporary housing for those who are unable to do this themselves, and who are in an emergency, is so definitely one of a municipality's primary tasks. When some municipalities do not seem to deal well with this primary task, there are several reasons. One important reason may be that municipalities that are early off doing the job are regularly penalised financially when the government grants additional subsidies to the municipalities that are following, for example. the way it was done with the reform of the single market. In any case, in the last two years, the signals of stronger state support for many non-profit rental properties have been so strong that they have probably contributed to postponing projects in some municipalities. Not least for such reasons, it is important that the Storting should clarify as soon as possible how much the State will contribute in the coming years and the opportunity to clarify it through budgetary procedures. The centre party has not initially seen the need for a new large sample to work for several years to address the need in this area, but of course we do not want to oppose the launch of such a sample. But what we have seen is that the municipal action plans should finally clarify the need for increased investment, and then we could get started quickly. I hope that now the appointment of a sample does not cause things to be postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e665	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e668	Nor will I hide the fact that the big message about youth and disadvantaged people was disappointing reading. In particular, the most vulnerable group of disadvantaged, i.e. the homeless, are left out, give cause for concern. Now, the government parties are apologizing that the situation of the homeless on the housing market will be dealt with later in the course of the government’s submission of a life insurance report. But to be honest, the question is whether the representative Lund can explain to us why the housing market situation of the homeless belongs more to a report on living conditions balancing. Would it not be more natural and therefore more appropriate that the housing situation of this group be included as an integral part of a housing plan for disadvantaged people? So to another question, which is about non-profit rental properties. The government parties are in agreement with the Workers' Party and SV on a note on page 6 in the setting that takes into account the need to build at least 1000 more new, nodded and reasonable rental homes in the year 2000, and it is likely that the level of 4000 to 5000 more per year should be increased. years in the coming years. At the same time, the same lots of SV are of a note that takes into account between 2000 and 5000 additional dwellings per. years in a coming five-year period, but it is not possible to participate in a proposal from the Socialist Left, which takes into account 3000 dwellings. Then my question to the representative Lund is that the fact that you don't even know what you mean is an acute attack of good, old central party opposition policy, or is it a result that you don't really know what you think about this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e675	The Working Party is disappointed with what the Government included in its message. I have to say I am surprised at the comments of the Workers' Party in the setting in relation to the comments that came when the message came. One would think that the Workers' Party had quite a lot of proposals, similar to what happens when budgets are presented, and the Workers' Party goes out and says that the Workers' Party should save the districts, the Workers' Party should save the local economy. But when it comes to the problem, there won't be anything out of it. The center party believes what the centre party has said, and we're not without ambition. I have mentioned what has happened in the last year – which has been so difficult because of the need to tighten up – the increase within the Husbanken framework, within the housing grant, within housing support schemes, and we are going to continue in the housing sector. We took the initiative in opposition in 1996 through an inter-pell debate to put the problems for the young and the disadvantaged on the agenda. We had proposals for voting in the Chamber to require a programme for the development of such dwellings. We turned it into a transmission proposal because the Labour Party and the Council of State said that we agree on this, and we do not want it to be voted down. At the following national meeting in the Workers' Party, it was made quite clear that it was now to be invested in just homes for young and disadvantaged people. It did not come into the revised national budget in 1997, before the elections, and then it became a government change. When the long - term plan was presented by the government of Jagland, it was stated in a headline that there is no house in the Jagland House Plan. What was previously a major part of the Labour Party's policy has become a small subchapter. I think that is what has happened: even within the Labour Party's policy, more and more has been left to the market. And there's nothing that this government wants to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e684	When the Center Party was in opposition, they had the plans ready. I have the Central Party's housing policy programme since August 1997. They made proposals then, and it seems very strange when they are now in government, that they are unable to make the proposals that they had, and that they continue to owe others because this is not possible. Why should there be a postponement of these things again now, as Morten Lund suggests? Why in the world would that be? It's just to signal that you want to be on some of the proposals that have been promoted in the committee and that are going to be promoted today, we can give real signals that something is going to happen here. The centre party believes what they have said, says Morten Lund, but you think what you have written in this housing policy program that I have here, that the Stortinget will determine the house bank rate politically, that the House Bank will provide subsidised loans, that a programme for the construction of 5,000 rental homes per. years, and that these rental dwellings shall be non-profit and non-commercial? We have had a debate on this concept of ‘public benefit’ in dealing with the matter that has puzzled me significantly. It has been shown that the Center Party has problems with this concept, without me being able to get a grip on what's the problem with it. Because what this term ‘public benefit’ means is, of course, that we can secure homes for those who have poor advice. Well, they're the ones that need the most attention. So I have a specific question for Morten Lund: can the Centre now, when dealing with this big message today, make a concrete promise that they can imagine entering into a housing policy settlement with the SV and the Workers' Party, so that we can get the disadvantaged and those with poor advice out of the poverty dilemma that the Right and the Progress Party are now putting them in?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e696	The President is not against engagement, but he has to remind Andersen that speaking directly to the representatives is not cutaneous in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e699	The centre party does not work in the opposition and does not compete with SV in terms of having money for all kinds of things. We don't have a sareptac truck, which SV has. We don't have the billions that SV takes, for example. from the defence budget to use for all possible purposes. We also have a completely different ambition to tax people in order to have the opportunity to make such proposals. Otherwise, we're relatively in agreement. I think what has now been presented in the vote is a housing policy settlement in Stortinget. What we say in this setting, of course, we mean. It says, among other things: in the setting, a comment from the Central Party on the house-banking rate. We believe it was wrong to make the house bank rate market driven. We were against it. I think so too. We say that if we get a situation of high interest rates again, we have to reconsider the political determination of the interest rate in the House Bank. We think that's important. If we are allowed to do that because of the EEA Agreement, another thing is. So the question of the non-profit rental properties. It's a term that we've used. But when you work on the setting from the SV page, it is made a big point, among other things. in the case of questions to the Ministry, how we are going to regulate the rent of the type of non-profit rental dwelling, we leave that principle, in order to avoid creating confusion. We do not want a rental regulation introduced again. Instead, we want to make a clause in such a way that the rent is nevertheless regulated, by creating small housing markets within the large housing markets, by determining who can be allowed to live in the housing that the public is involved in financing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e708	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e711	I will first be allowed to address the suggestions that SV has made in the setting. To the last thing that was said here, I just want to say that if you don't intend to do anything out of all your promises, and if you can't get money for any of the things you promise, I actually think you shouldn't promise. SV means what we have said. That means we have to redeploy some money. We actually think that's right. This is about something as basic as roofing over your head. Housing is a necessary good all must have, at an affordable price. Therefore, SV is going to submit a draft constitution on the right to housing. The point of that is that housing is the starting point for everything. If you want a job, you need a place to live. If you're going to school, you need a place to live. If you want to be able to receive healthcare, you have to have a dwelling. It's nothing in your life that works if you don't have a dwelling. We want social housing policy to be repatriated. It has been very strongly strangled over the last 10 – 15 years by the Right Liberal breakthrough. There was a lot in the deregulation that could be good. But what was totally lacking was to take responsibility for a social housing sector in Norway, which could have helped those who have poor advice or are disadvantaged in other ways. The message that has been submitted is, in the SV's view, so deficient that we thought it should be sent back, because the description of both the reality and the instruments was very poor. It didn't work out. The housing market in Norway is not particularly good if you do not have much money. In the housing market in Norway it is allowed to be speculant in other people’s housing needs. The market is almost unique. It doesn't provide cheap housing for people with bad advice. We have received market-driven interest both in the Husbanken and in the Loan Fund, which doubles for newly established people with mortgages and student loans. It can almost be an insurmountable obstacle for those who have not yet settled. The homeless, as has been mentioned several times, are not even mentioned in this notification. We know the situation of the homeless for very many years. During visits both to the Church's Bymission and to the Salvation Army, we have been told that people die around them. They die around them because they have no roof over their heads. And then we'll still sit and make plans and wait and see before we solve this! Norway has a pretty good housing policy for those who have bought their home a few years ago and who have almost paid off loans. Housing tax is low and capital appreciation is high. For newly established people and for those who have not entered the housing market and have been bought a dwelling yet, or who have just bought a dwelling, we have a very poor policy. It's time to make changes to this. Norwegian housing policy is hard and heartless against vulnerable groups. Several people live on the street, as we have said, and a lot of young people who don't want to be seen as outlaws, live with one comrade one night and the other comrade the other night, have what they own in a plastic bag, and have trouble establishing themselves. It's not hard to understand that you can get into an even more difficult situation of life, when you have such a housing relationship. I can describe the housing market in Norway so that on the one hand we have people running here in Stortinget and siblings and complain that they might have to pay NOK 2 in taxes. But they have such good advice that they can pay $40 million. kr for an empty, so that they do not have neighbours. On the other hand, we have people who don't have a roof over their heads. That's the situation, pointed out, in Norway. So it's not the homeless who fly and torment us and fly down the corridors here in the Storting, it's the ones that have more than enough of them already. We have had a housing policy that has focused on the appreciation of the dwelling and on housing taxes for those who have a good and valuable dwelling. And they've had a breakthrough. But we have almost no impact – rather on the contrary. The means of housing policy towards students and those who have poor advice, and those who do not even have a house, have been weakened year after year. Now at least everyone here agrees that we're going to bet on student housing. I'm a little excited about how many it's going to be -- if it's actually going to matter. And I hope now that what others here today have called election vows, is actually going to be something of. Because what I see as election vows is that you stand here and say you should bet. But when we get to the budgets, it's impossible to squeeze out a single penny. There are election vows that are not worth anything. That is why SV has now challenged the Labour Party and the Center Government, because we do not see that it is possible to solve this together with the Right Party and the Advance Party. They have completely different thoughts about this. But we in SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties should now be able to agree on a housing settlement. And this billion that SV has pointed to is not an incredible amount of money. If we get it out into the revised national budget, we can start a program that means 3,000 homes in a year. That means homes with 50 pst. grants – they don’t get as cheap as student homes are now, but they get cheap. And it'll actually mean something. Of course, 1000 dwellings will also mean something. That the construction market cannot absorb this – as it is claimed – is actually not true. We are now facing a crack in the housing market, which the Workers' Party addresses in Stortinget's oral Question Time almost every week. And then they say today that even though we're trying to build so many homes, it's not possible to do it, because the construction industry can't do it. So it's not related. Then to the House Bank. We now experience that the Bank Association has a rough drive towards the House Bank in ESA. The Norwegian Banking Association has lost the political struggle in Stortinget to destroy the Norwegian housing policy and destroy the Husbank. Now they're using ESA to try to outrun us with the formalistic method. At least I have no faith in it, and I don't think anyone should imagine that it's the interests of the housing customers you're trying to care for, it's their own clever and greedy consideration. I would think that the Banking Association had something better to do. For example, they could. try to develop loan offers that were such that ordinary people with poor advice could be able to afford to serve the loan. Now, if you have good advice, you can go to the bank and get a very good loan. You can make interest, too, because you have good security. But if you have bad advice, you get the highest interest rates and the worst loan terms. So the usual banks have never shown responsibility for ordinary people and their needs in the housing market. I see no need for the House Bank to be destroyed in the way that the Banking Association now wants. The home bank is different, and it should be because it needs to be. It's a tool that can be used. So it's going to go through it, for example. funding to ensure that as many newly built dwellings as possible in Norway have a genuine standard. This means something essential for another area in which we should be concerned, namely energy policy, because we know that the increase in energy consumption in the household sector is largely due to the significant increase in housing. If we get many of these into the House Bank, we hit two flies in one taste. We need to build a non-profit housing sector that provides a place to live for those who have bad advice. BYGGFORSK shows just that the House Bank has lent loans to many banks that have not been considered creditworthy, and yet the House Bank has suffered very small losses. This is therefore a socio-economic good way to sort it out, and we hope that the Banking Association will fail in its efforts towards ESA to destroy this scheme. The appropriations for housing have I been a little busy before. They have been greatly reduced. And what almost nobody has talked about here is that Norway is actually a different country on the housing market, and it's a different country in terms of the things that are bad. In Norway, it's 4 pst. social housing, in the EU there are 18 p.m., in Sweden there are 22 p.m., and in Denmark there are also 18 p.m. So in addition to that, we have a terrible investment in student housing. The level of housing aid is lower, housing grants are lower, interest tax deductions are lower, while the housing tax is also very low. This means that we have a very distorted housing market in Norway. SV agrees that housing support should also be increased for some groups, but we believe that the direct grants that will give us the element in the housing sector that we lack are the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e746	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e749	Yes, SV has faith in public solutions, in subsidies. The representative Karin Andersen said that she would return to social housing policy. But it'll cost you something. It is that in the case of subsidizing, someone has to pay it, it's never free. And then that's the big question, as taxpayers then have to go in – I assume it's about subsidising primarily young people and perhaps others with special needs in terms of housing, and then, as mentioned, someone has to finance this: is it that SV wants to finance this through increased housing taxes? Is that the way the party will go, so that those who own homes today, with SV's policy can expect a radical increase in the different types of housing tax that we have after all?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e754	No, no, no. There could probably be reason to look at the housing tax as it is, because it's very biased. If you have a very valuable dwelling – only it is old enough and big enough – you will get away much cheaper than if you have a common home. So there's a reason to look at it. But there are also other tax items there are reasons to look at, for example. dividend dividends. If you receive a dividend in Norway, you will receive your entire dividend without paying a single penny in tax. There's tax in the company, but the one that takes out the amount can have billions of dividends without paying five flat cents in taxes. It's a great injustice, when someone puts it up against those who don't have money at all. It could be tempting to ask a counter question, sail if I know that it is not possible to get an answer to that. What the Progress Party will do, to reduce capital taxes and taxes on wealth, will be to increase the pressure on housing taxes, because it's the only fixed thing left. It will soon be the only thing we have left to tax here in the country, if you do not want to dry up in areas where the money is – on wealth, dividends and large revenues. I'm sending that challenge back directly. If the Progress Party does not want the house tax to increase, they must also be involved in the drying of other taxable objects. If the Progress Party makes an impact on its policy, housing taxes will increase significantly. It is not possible to move with a house, but money is known to take with it across borders, and to avoid taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e763	Let me first say that the Workers' Party and SV are united about a lot in the settings that the Stortinget is dealing with today, and agree that housing policy – ensuring a decent housing – is an important part of the distribution policy. But I have some very specific questions for Karin Andersen. Karin Andersen has spoken to Oslopressen in the last few days, mainly to the evening number of the evening post, and stressed that it is important that the Husbanken should also have an impact on Oslo, and can be used in Oslo. This is Karin Andersen and I totally agree. What I doubt is that giving 1 billion to the House Bank, the eartag Oslo – which she has actually said to the Oslopress – has some meaning. Are we not faced with structural problems? Is it not true that the level of costs and housing structure in Oslo is completely different from that in most other parts of the country, and that is why the rules in the House Bank have to do something about this? I have probably a question, because I realized there was a little bit more detail and nuances in what Karin Andersen now said. Now it was such that it was to be spent 1 billion kroner in the revised national budget, and it was not specifically mentioned Oslo, I think. Does Karin Andersen mean that she should be able to build – there were 3,000 housing units in the last six months in 1999 – for 1 billion? If this money is to go to the House Bank, they're to be earmarked for Oslo, or how is this supposed to be?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e772	One billion should be managed by the House Bank. But if it's been in Oslopressen that I've thought that this entire billion should be earmarked for Oslo, it's wrong. It is quite right, as the representative Nybakk says, that there is a major housing problem in Oslo, but it is also a structural problem. The Labour Party and SV agree that the rules of the House Bank must be reviewed. It is a fact that as they are now, there is no possibility to use the Husbanken's instruments effectively in Oslo. So to the question of whether it's actually possible to use this billion in a six-month period. I hear that there are people who believe that this is not possible. This billion can be used to build non-profit housing, and student housing projects can be started. I do not think it is impossible to initiate projects of this magnitude in the context of revision. I perceive that the problem with the Workers' Party is that they do not want to make promises in this area that can actually mean something. The point here is that you have to get a housing deal that signals a completely different bet in this area over time. Then I think it'll be very defensive if you say in advance that you might have used 920 or 800 of these million in the six months. I think the problem of possibly having this money transferred to next year is the least problem we should worry about. We should worry a lot more about those who don't have any place to live, for those who can't handle their boutes, for those who don't get into the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e781	Let me first say that I support the Government and the Ministry's offensive as an appropriate way of meeting the more marginal problems that we have in Norway when it concerns the housing sector. I also support, like the representative Karin Andersen, the Husbank as a necessary traveler in future housing policy in Norway, and hope that he can stand as a strong unit, and preferably be strengthened. I'm a little surprised when the article showed a somewhat negative attitude to the conclusions that the Committee's multiplicity agrees with, that it is necessary to have plans at the bottom for a further bet. We must not deprive local politicians of their responsibility to give over to those who need it, and their responsibilities to facilitate thought-providing and using empty buildings. So local politicians have a responsibility. We're not going to be so fast to jump in their way, we're going to have to encourage them to create long-term, serious plans. I am also a little surprised when it was almost said in the post that there is no bet at the government or that a non-will to increase the transfers. One should be more correct in its review. I also disagree with what was said about establishing the right to housing. I'm a little concerned that SV here is getting involved in a symbolic policy, and I'm going to encourage the party to take a more positive approach to a planned and results-oriented way to meet the difficult situation of the people in order to solve it constructively, and not through symbols.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e791	I believe that SV's main role in this debate, as in most other debates, is actually to challenge, among other things. The government to do something. This is not a situation that has arisen this year or last year or the year before there again. This has been tough for a long time. For example, in the case of the deregulations that have been made. With regard to the student loan rate, which is now market driven, and the borrowing rate in the Husbank, which is now market driven, we knew what this would lead to. We've always known that we haven't had a non-profit housing sector, so we can't say that there are only plans and knowledge about this that are missing. What's missing first of all is money. The systems that we need, we can actually implement, because it doesn't take all the world's time. What I primarily miss at the government parties, and I have said that in a line here before today, is that they burn a little for the matter. I am quite dismayed here, because representatives of the Christian People's Party have, as far as I remember, participated in the same inspections that I attended at the Salvation Army, I have also been with the Church's City Mission, and I wonder if they don't hear what these organizations say. In Oslo, there's even the majority in this city in a way that doesn't get to do anything for these people. We're on the verge of wishing that we could give the money to the Salvation Army and the Church's Bymission, so that something is done. It's dramatic, and I'm actually missing a little bit more heart rate and a little bit more muscles from those parts that say they're going to take care of those that are the weakest among us.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e798	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e801	Young people who are now establishing themselves for the first time often come directly from school. Often, couples or lonely people have little or no equity. They are also new employees and have therefore not been able to earn a high salary yet. At the same time, very many of these are burdened with heavy debt from student loans. These are people who establish themselves on the same market as the growth generation often uses to invest their savings. It is not so easy to find a home for their small family when the other buyers that you compete with have large equity, high pay and often children who have moved out. This is today's situation for very many young people, and for myself and my wife last year. In the view of the Left, it is the duty of the State to facilitate access to the housing market. The Committee's approach points to a number of important measures that will improve the housing situation. I want to pay particular attention to the possibility that municipalities also have of making their own housing plans. An active local policy can do much to create new areas for housing. In particular, it is important that a rate on the densification of existing residential areas is maintained in order to avoid using new land. It is also important that the new area is used for dwellings and not for commercial purposes. This is a conflict that is present in several areas. At the same time, as the Committee says, it should be committed to the construction of student housing. This must be done in such a way as to establish a real offer of reasonable housing for the students. Dwellings must therefore also be placed in the vicinity of study places. Such investment in student housing will also facilitate the pressure on the housing market and therefore benefit other groups. For the left, it has long been a priority matter to make the House Bank a first home bank. Young people without equity have problems financing their first dwelling — especially in the case of high student loans, as I said, the total amount of debt and repayments is too high. Financing for young people at the start-up stage should therefore be given priority over providing new loans to those already on the housing market. The household bank should also be able to provide loans to initial start-ups who purchase used dwellings. The task of the public must be to ensure the possibilities on the housing market for the weakest. This is best done through the established system that the House Bank is. This will also restore the social profile of the House Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e814	It's time for a housing policy boost, as many have been involved, and it's time to return to social housing. There is no doubt that the challenges in the housing market are in line. In the 1990s, there were several homeless people. We see that the increase is greatest among young people, and that is worrying. We see that there are too few dwellings built in relation to demand. We see that housing prices have risen dramatically, especially in press areas, and we see that many young people have major problems in getting housing, if they are not so lucky to have parents with good finances or have inherited anything. We also know that the housing rate has increased strongly since last summer – although there have been some positive signals in the last few days – but there is no doubt that the situation today for many young and disadvantaged people is extremely difficult. Therefore, there is a need for a housing policy boost. That is why a national effort is needed, especially to help those who have the most difficulty. We had great expectations of the message submitted by the Government, and therefore we were somewhat disappointed at what was actually there. I think we can agree on a number of points, at least on parts of the description, but there is no doubt that from the Labour Party we are very disappointed with what we believe is a lack of action in relation to what needs to be done. This is particularly true of the disadvantaged group. I agree with those who have said that our biggest challenge is the fact that over 6,000 people in Norway do not have a place to live – the committee has talked to some of them. This is not worthy of our welfare state. In addition, we know that the dark numbers here are probably large, because the 6,000 we're talking about here are the ones that are in contact with the auxiliaries. But there's more than that. We expected that the Government had proposed concrete measures for this group when they chose to submit a communication on young people and disadvantaged people — otherwise they should have provided a communication on young people. We have to take a real lift for this group. The disadvantaged are a complex group. There are people with psychosocial problems, there are young people who are or have been under child protection and who, at least somewhere, get some money in their pockets and later end up at the hospital, there are people with drug problems, and it can be part of the group of refugees and immigrants. Many of the hard times we're talking about here, live at the hostel today and come in addition to those who don't have a place to live. Hospits is a bad and expensive solution. We should do what we can to get away from this solution and instead figure out other alternatives. That is what we in the Committee have tried to come up with. We've visited several parts of the city in Oslo, and to give an example: in one of the districts we visited, and which may have the biggest challenges in this area as well, there were over 600 people who had mental problems, but who got no help but a visit to the social office to get money when it was necessary. It's unworthy of our welfare state. Of course, this is also linked to lack of accommodation, with lack of follow-up – and we have to do something about that. That's why we have to build special homes. We have proposed special book collectors, with follow-up for those who need it. It's our biggest and most important task. In addition, on behalf of our party, Aud Gaundal has gone through what we think must be done otherwise to the group of young people, but I should have liked to have a clarification from the government parties here: do they mean what they've been on with comments in the vote when they're not on the proposal of the Workers' Party and SV on a national public rental housing programme? One must at least ask himself what the government parties really mean, what they commit themselves to, and what they actually intend to do when we come to the budget negotiations. I would like to say to the Labour Party that we intend to follow up what we have said in the vote. We regret that the central parties do not seem to want to support the Workers' Party and SV's proposal for an obliging programme to build what is necessary – as much as we can – by national rental homes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e833	I have read the local committee's settings both for St.meld. No 49 and St.meld No. 14 with great interest. The government is well supported by the analyses and proposals we have made in the communications. In the case of the main action of housing policy, with a «wide» house bank as State implementing body both in terms of loans, grants and housing support, the proposal that municipalities can demonstrate through local action plans the need for housing to disadvantaged people and thus provide the basis for grants for specific projects, and the importance of drawing the housing co-operation with them as an essential private actor in the construction of housing for young and disadvantaged people. It is gratifying that a clear majority supports the Government's policy in this area. Of course, I would like to base the majority comments on the government's further work on housing policy, including the desire for a broad public inquiry into housing policy with the subsequent housing announcement to the Stortinget. I see it as useful with a broad review of long-term trends, and that these are seen in the context of existing instruments. I agree with the Committee that the sample should receive a few years of work to enable the necessary sample surveys and other documentation to be carried out. I will give high priority to the work on the investigation and the later housing report, and I will follow that work carefully. It is – and has been – very important for the Government that owner-occupied housing should be achievable for all, not least for those with low incomes and prospects for the weak economy in the long term. Anyone who wants it must be able to live independently and decently. This means that those seeking housing who live poorly and who themselves are not able to do anything about it should be able to get help from the public for housing. This does not mean that the government sees having independent housing as a right in which society is obliged to have adequate housing to suit the individual’s needs at all times. Such models have been tested in other countries, for example in Eastern Europe, without any particular positive experience from them. The government sees it as crucial to have a housing policy with clear and well-founded priorities: households with children in front of households without children, disabled people in front of non-disabled people, those with low incomes in front of them with higher incomes, resource weaknesses in front of resource strengths, young unemployed in front of young people in work. This was the government's and my starting point for the preparation of the notification of housing for young and disadvantaged people. I am therefore pleased that the Municipal Committee endorses the need to design housing policy instruments so that the social effects of housing become as good as possible. At the same time, we must always give priority to realistic budgetary frameworks. For example, I do not think that we should give priority to significant government subsidies for the construction of expensive downtown rental homes in Oslo for young people living alone in full-time work in front of subsidies to young disadvantaged people without work in municipal queues to be allocated municipal rental housing. We must also recognise that it is the municipalities that know better than the state what problems apply to the applicants for housing of each municipality. In the vote, the majority underlines the importance of good municipal housing planning. This is particularly true for housing measures against disadvantaged applicants. I am pleased with the consensus expressed in the vote on the role distribution between the state and the municipality. I fully agree with the municipal committee that society needs to do more for homeless and particularly vulnerable groups, such as women. drug abusers, not least through the creation of several book collectives rather than poor solutions such as hostitis. Such book-collectives are currently funded by the Housing Bank's housing grant scheme, whether in the case of new buildings, purchases or repairs. Let me make it clear that such measures for the most disadvantaged are already a high priority within the housing grant scheme. As long as I have been a municipal minister, I have not known that in some municipalities there has been a refusal to apply for housing grants to a book public for particularly disadvantaged people. The problem is not the construction itself, but, as the Committee itself is involved, the necessary social service provision that must accompany the housing offer. Measures against the most disadvantaged in the housing market need to be coordinated with social service measures. That's where the shoe prints the most. I therefore cooperate closely with the Minister of Social Affairs on action against the homeless in the forthcoming major communication on living conditions. Most municipalities today make good efforts with housing measures for young and disadvantaged people, the UNGBO offer is a good example here. Well-documented action plans will provide the best basis for the future budgetary prioritisation of housing grants, for example: for the construction or purchase of rental dwellings. In the case of housing aid, the review of municipal housing aid schemes presented in St.meld. No 14, and evaluations of the role of social assistance in the forthcoming major communication on living conditions, provide a good starting point for the public body to look at housing policy, as requested by the Committee. It may provide an overall assessment and advice on future state housing aid. The government's goal is to increase the number of student housing, which an overall Storting has also been concerned about in the past. Coordination of the resources, both the competence of the Student Housing Advisory Body, ROS, and the House Bank, would, in my view, provide better use of the resources and therefore also more housing. With today's system, we haven't done well enough, but I take note that the majority doesn't see the need to reorganize the work in order to have a better effect on this. I have registered and noticed III and IV in the position, asking that a stepping-up plan be made for student housing, and that the responsibility for student housing remains under the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. Of course, I will make my colleague in the Ministry of Church, Education and Research aware that he must start this work. Finally, I am pleased that the Committee welcomes the communication on the Norwegian State Husbank 1996-97. The Committee points out that the notification describes the activity in a good and transparent manner. It goes on to say: ‘The notification is comprehensive but structured in such a way that the large housing and activity of the Husbank for the years 1996 and 1997 is well received.’ I agree with that description, and will take the opportunity from this pulpit to praise the House Bank for a good and efficient work done. I am convinced that the role of the House Bank will also be crucial in the future in order to have a good and broad housing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e866	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e869	Both the setting and today's debate show that the central government has the Workers' Party with it in many of its wishes, and we are together about a lot. One of the things that we're probably also together about is the desire for interest to go down, because for the group of tenants that we're talking about today, the interest rate increase that's happened -- I don't want to say tragic, but almost that. Now it turns out it's going down, so we're going to hope that it evolves in the right direction. As the representative Lund said earlier, in the setting, there is a slightly special remark from the Center Party. They believe that: ‘it may be necessary and desirable, for a period, to intervene in the market-based interest rate and to determine the rate of the house bank policy in the event of such a situation’. We understand that house bank interest will increase from 1 April. Many of the customers in the House Bank have fixed their interest rate, and they will not be affected by it. But for the rest of the group, an interest rate increase will mean a lot. I have understood it so that Minister of Finance Restad of the Central Party is not of the opinion that it is necessary to enter and politically govern the interest rates, whether it is now on the ordinary market or in the House Bank. And then my question is: is it the representative Morten Lund, or is it the Minister of Finance Restad who is the Council's guide on the matter of interest?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e881	I agree with Mr Gaundal that the increase in interest rates we have had since the announcement is one of the main challenges. That was also the main reason why it was necessary for the Government to present such a tight state budget for the current year as we did. Job No 1 has been bringing down the interest rate, and it's because nothing so socially wrong and affects as socially unfairly as the interest rate increase we've seen. Now, luckily, it looks like we're able to lower our interest rate. It now goes down in turn and in order, and we hope that this is a development that will continue. It is true that the house bank rate has risen – it has been pointed out by several people who have had the word here today – and of course there is nothing desirable. But it is also the case that when the House Bank came up with the offer of fixed interest rates, very many of the House Bank's customers chose that scheme, and they have, as the representative Gaundal pointed out, come out somewhat better. We do not intend by the Government to make any changes to the interest rate of the House Bank other than what we have already done, so on the direct question from the representative of Gaundal, whether I should be a sort of a raiser between the Minister of Finance and the representative of the Central Party in the Committee, I can only answer that it is not my role.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e890	In its observations, the Procedural Party has shown that the Husbank has a monopoly on managing and distributing State aid in connection with borrowings for residential purposes. We believe that these support measures must also be able to be disseminated through the ordinary business and savings banking system. It is also the case that the Banking Association has a case in progress – they have probably appealed a decision – that goes on this. Then I would like to ask: would it not be an advantage if the state support, which is part of the social housing policy, could be channelled through the ordinary banking system? I would like the Council of State to say a few words about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e895	It is my sincere opinion that the system we have in Norway today, where we channel state support through a state home bank, is the best and most accurate way we can channel state support. With that, I guess I've answered the question. What happened yesterday in connection with this judgment was that the case was sent back because ESA had not done its homework well enough – to say so. This matter has been going on for a long time, and a lot of money has been spent on these processes. A lot of money has been spent by the Banking Association, but much of the taxpayers' money has also been used to run these cases – to use an expression that the Progress Party often uses when we use government funds. It has surprised me that the Banking Association spends so much money and puts so much prestige in this case, when they know that there is a broad political consensus in Norway that the Husbank will have the role and tasks it has today. That they choose to run such issues for ESA when they do not reach the political system in Norway, I take note. But I have to say that I'm quite amazed at the task they've been doing there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e902	When we stick to the setting, it seems that a low age should be a self-contained criterion in relation to the public interest and that it is difficult to set. But after listening to the Council of State's comments, I thought to right a happy message that there should be additional criteria to benefit from public priority. In case it's right, I'd like to have it confirmed, because we'll see that as very positive. It is also true that my reply will not unexpectedly be aimed at a budgetary analysis of the voluntary rhetoric associated with the vote and debate, and we have read a plural comment here that signals that housing support will in the future be introduced to young people in a single way. My question to the Council of State is whether this creates reflections in the department, and whether one has a picture of what kind of economic perspective arises after such a signal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e912	I tried in my post the same as I tried when we wrote the message, to find out that most people in Norway have a good housing situation. We have housing shortages in a few municipalities in Norway. It's especially in the four largest cities there's housing shortage. There's someone who can't even get the housing they need, and that's what society needs to give priority to. I therefore believe that I tried to make it clear in my speech that we have to make priorities and we have to deal with realistic budgets, without prejudging any budgetary procedure now. Everything has to be seen in context. And then I want to refer to the first line that I got, that is, the indication of interest rate developments. It once again shows that we need a comprehensive policy to ensure that we have a development that we can defend. It is then true that it is not only the direct government appropriations and subsidies that count in this, but there are also many other factors that determine who gets problems on the housing market, and who does not. Let me just remind you that some of the problems that the biggest cities have with lack of housing are the result that we have had a very strong centralization during the 1990s, so here there are costs at both ends of the centralization development we have had in recent years. It also means that the Government has actively pursued a district policy to try to curb this centralisation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e919	First, I would like to say that I very much agree with the priorities mentioned by the Council of State on who would go ahead of who in the queue. I don't think there's anyone who's meant to subsidize expensive homes in the center of youth in work, but there's a great need for student housing. In fact, many of them should be very close to the centre, and there is a question of municipal and state land policy very important, so that this doesn't necessarily have to be so expensive. Some of the things that have surprised us in this announcement are the description of the housing market by the Council of State and the Government, that it should in some way be almost good. So you say it was a little bit worse a few years ago. It's actually so that it's very expensive, especially for those who are going to rent, but also for those who are going to buy. A lot of people now spend a lot more of their money on housing. Is it, in fact, that the Council of State feels that this is a desired situation? Is it not also the case that we have actually neglected quite strongly in social housing policy? It's also a bit of a situation. So the Council of State said that she wanted to base the majority comment on her work. A majority comment says, among other things. construction of 2000 – 5000 non-profit dwellings per year. Does that mean that's what the government is working for? So finally, the Council of State indicated that she would cooperate with the Minister of Social Affairs on many of these issues, and that is necessary. Would it also be appropriate to look at a problem that is that a municipality can now actually use quite a thousand dollars a month to place in the hostel? It's a terrible animal and a terrible and terrible way to live. Should you not look at the legislation, see what the municipality can actually support for living expenses and other expenses that individuals may have, so that they can continue to stay in a general apartment or obtain a general apartment? It gets cheaper in many cases.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e930	First of all, as the representative Karin Andersen says, the description of the housing policy situation is not correct. I'm a little surprised about that, because all we have of research and research around this, actually shows that the description in the message is correct. The fact that most people in Norway have an acceptable housing standard does not prevent us from taking action against those groups that have the most difficulty. That's what's behind us submitting this message. The main reason we have come into such a situation is that the construction of student housing has not kept pace with the creation of new places of study in the last ten years in particular. If there had been a better balance between the creation of study places and the construction of student housing in this period, probably a lot of the problem we've now wouldn't be there. But we have to try to do something about the neglect that has happened, so in addition to investing in student homes, there are also other groups that need our attention. I agree with the representative Karin Andersen that the shelter is a bad and expensive solution. Many municipalities have suggested this solution, and I expect that when the municipalities – especially in the big cities, we get to focus on where it is actually relevant – now have social housing programmes in place, they themselves realize that it is more sensible to use the funds in a better way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e937	I want to start a campaign that we had not so long ago, where I remember that, among other things. The center party was very concerned about what they called Difference Norway, that there was a need to do a lot about it, and that therefore it was important to get the Center Party into the Government, according to them. Now the Center Party is there, and we have received a message about housing for young and disadvantaged people. I repeat that we are demanding and expected to bring something there of concrete things in relation to those who have the worst things on the housing market. We are surprised that this did not happen. We agree with the Council that we must give priority to the weakest, but then the question becomes all the more timely to ask: why are not the weakest in this message and in relation to concrete proposals? I also think the government parties give a little different signals in the case of rental homes. It says, among other things: in St.meld. No 49 for 1997-98 on page 12: ‘However, the government does not specifically wish to promote the broad development of rental dwellings in its own units of public ownership.’ In the setting, the government parties, together with the Workers' Party and SV, agree with a note, quoted earlier, that one should first build 1000 more nights of reasonable rentals in the year 2000, and that one must at least up to 4000 – 5000 more dwellings. Then the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party have a concrete proposal in which we set up a national programme for non-profit rental housing, a project in which both the state, the municipalities and the housing cooperative are to participate. Of course, we intend to follow up this concretely, and my question to the Council of State is: What does the Government actually mean, and what do the government parties actually mean? Which of these signals is what we should trust, and why are not the government parties – and in particular the Central Party – involved in having a national effort to help some of those who have the most trouble in the housing market?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e951	I want to start by saying that I am actually very happy that the Workers' Party is now engaged so much in these questions. I should of course have wanted them to have engaged a little too when they put themselves in government offices, because if they had, at least the problems we've had would have been a little less, to say it carefully. But it's nice that the Workers' Party is coming now. I've read the committee's position so that there's a broad compromise on housing policy that's at stake, and I'm going to follow it up in turn and in order. With regard to Difference Norway and the weakest, I thought that in my post I made it clear that it is not the construction of the kind of housing that is the problem. No request for the type of loan or grant has been rejected, but it is the follow-up necessary to enable such book-collectives to function, which is the bottleneck and which need to be seen in a context. And that's what we're dealing with now in the context of presenting the difference message, as we call it, or the message of living conditions differences, in order to be absolutely correct. It's a follow-up to what we said in the election campaign. It's a follow-up to what's in the government statement, that we want to look at what we can do to reduce differences in Norway. It comes in that message, but we have to see things in context, and here it's not just about building more homes, here it's about how we can cope with the social service provision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e960	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e963	St.meld. No 49 for 1997-98, About housing for young and disadvantaged people, is quite toothless. It is characterized by many words and pious desires, but contains no proposals for concrete action. The only concrete measure proposed by the Government is for municipalities to develop local action plans. In other words, the government leaves the whole responsibility for housing for young people and disadvantaged communities. The need for action plans by municipalities is not disputed, but when the economy in the municipalities is as bad as it is now, there is little reason to believe that more housing will be built for young and disadvantaged people if there is no money from the state. The answer from the government parties is that there is no need to follow money with a message. But we have good examples of having messages that accompany money, including: on the retirement plan, which also included 30 billion kroner, and this has worked well. The Labour Party has put forward proposals for a number of concrete measures in its configuration. We have a majority for some, and that is good, but for several of our proposals on action we have not achieved a majority, and that is very regrettable for the groups involved, especially when we know that housing and the living environment are so crucial to people's living conditions and quality of life. Then it doesn't benefit to be as passive as the government is and just say that everything is in the best order, because it isn't. I allow myself to quote from the message: «... there are good opportunities to establish itself today, and the possibilities are, despite rising prices, better than some years ago. The main reasons for this are low interest rates and a good labour market.» This is not in line with today's reality for young and disadvantaged people entering the housing market. I will take one example from Oslo, which may have the biggest problems in this area: the price of a furniture of 11m2 is almost NOK 6000 per person. months. In addition, 17500 kroner are required in the deposit. This example was given to the Committee during a visit to the Salvation Army, and it was the alternative that a homeless person had to accept to get a creep. It says something about the need in Oslo! The homeless is a group that the government has almost not mentioned in the message, yet this is a big problem, especially in Oslo. There's a lot of numbers going on, but it's probably not too much to deal with if I say it's at least 6,000 people. There's a reason to assume that this number is larger. Then it's quite amazing that the message doesn't survive such a large group, with so many problems, a single little sentence on how to tackle and solve the problem. Nor does the notification say one word about how many rental homes are needed in Norway, or what the state will do to build more. The Labour Party believes that we now need a national programme for non-profit rental housing with the corresponding funding mechanism. We need to increase the bet on cheap rental homes for young people and families. Such investment may also release smaller and more reasonable housing for young and disadvantaged people. Such a national rental programme must be a piece of work between the State, the municipalities and the housing cooperative. We don't get a majority for that. In any case, some groups will have difficulties in establishing themselves without specially organised support schemes. This applies in particular to young people with low incomes, unemployed, lone-parents, disabled persons, refugees and immigrants. Grant schemes, housing aid and reasonable start-up loans are largely targeted at these groups and are intended to facilitate the situation for those with problems. The Labour Party believes that it is important that housing policy instruments are actively used in municipalities to help those who have problems in the housing market. Living on the street, at the hostel or having to depend on someone giving a roof over their heads from day to day, is a totally unsustainable situation that we here in the country should not have had problems solving. That's why it's urgent to get to a solution. The Workers' Party proposes to ask the Government to establish immediate housing arrangements for the homeless and people with little residence, among others. by establishing public bookshelves with support measures. Nor do we get a majority in favour of – it is almost flat – a measure that would give many of those who today have to resort to a much better everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e989	There is an important communication from the Government, and I am pleased that the Committee's focus on the main objective must be to give priority to the most difficult places in the housing market. I think the committee has promoted a good attitude. It is not acceptable that there are several thousand homeless in Norway – 6,200 according to figures from the Building Research Institute. In the near future, the Social Committee will discuss what should be done to address, for example: heavy drug users. In addition to emphasising prevention, we need to be able to deal with the most disadvantaged groups. They need a health service, but also a housekeeping service. The top option is not satisfactory. The need is particularly great in Oslo and other major cities. It must therefore be right, as the Municipal Committee suggests, to give the House Bank the opportunity to give Oslo and other cities greater priority over a period of time. Different housing offers are important for this group as well. The house bank has an important role to play in financing rental housing, among other things. young people in the start-up phase. This offer is also needed in smaller municipalities. Through the House Bank, a number of schemes have been put in place, including: shall enable young people in the establishment phase to build their own dwellings. 20 to 25 years ago, the full-financing facility was introduced. The establishment loan scheme has well replaced the previous scheme. This is a very good offer for a very favourable interest rate and amortisation scheme. However, many municipalities are very careful to raise loans in the House Bank and then pass them on to applicants that meet the criteria for such loans. Many municipalities with scarce financial resources are concerned that loans can end up as loss exposures. I think this is regrettable, because it is important and good arrangements that too many people are absolutely necessary to realize their housing project. I would have liked it to be assessed whether a large part of the losses should be charged to the State. In its 50-year history, the House Bank has played a crucial role in the construction of housing in this country. For many, the existence of the House Bank was absolutely essential for the ordinary man and woman to bring up their simple apartment, which they had dreamed of, but not entirely thought was real. In retrospect, dwellings could be extended and repaired. It will also be right in the future to call the House Bank. In the case of many other government loan schemes, e.g. in the former District Development Fund, the State loans were granted as the second priority mortgage. Personally, I would have liked to see that, for example. a savings or commercial bank had granted the first priority mortgage to the housebuilder, and that the House Bank had granted the second priority mortgage to the groups of our society that depended on such a financing arrangement and that met the current requirements of the House Bank to be granted mortgage loans. The State would like to demand an interest cap of the 1st priority loans and even granted the 2nd priority loans at a reasonable interest rate and with a favourable amortisation plan.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1004	It has been a main political objective of housing policy that everyone should have the opportunity to dispose of a good dwelling in a pleasant living environment. As a result, Norway is likely to have the highest housing standard in the world. I would then be happy to add that the exception is today's Oslo. Unacceptably high housing prices, a dramatic fall in housing production in recent years and increased migration create a major imbalance between supply and demand. It is particularly difficult to get into the housing market for the first time. For a family in the start-up phase, it could cost about 1 million. kr for an average large apartment in an old inner city courtyard, with associated high borrowing and interest costs. The generation around 30 years today is likely to pay the price for their parents making large sums of money in the deregulation of the housing market in Oslo 20 years ago. With the housing structure and price level in Oslo, Husbanken has not been able to help young people in the start-up phase. The house bank cannot be used for the purchase of an old joint apartment, the price level of plots in Oslo is too high for the House Bank's legislation, and the rental level of house-banked rental properties in Oslo is too high. With the enormous needs for housing we have today in the capital, it is in fact most regrettable that the House Bank's financing of new dwellings in the larger cities has become smaller in recent years. According to St.meld. No 14 for 1998-99, in 1997 the Husbank only committed 78 dwellings in Oslo, broken down by smaller projects. I think it is positive that the Committee points out that the problems in the housing market in Oslo need to be given much greater attention in the House Bank, and that there is a need for greater resources in the big cities to achieve a standard that is a little closer to other municipalities. I don't think that the housing standard in the big city can reach the housing standard where it's common with single homes, but that it can at least get a step closer. But I don't think this can be solved by earmarking money for Oslo over the House Bank, as SV's Karin Andersen suggested in the press. The household bank simply has to take account of the fact that the needs and the level of costs are completely different from elsewhere. This is a structural problem that needs to be solved by changes in rules such as: ensure financing arrangements in the Husbanken which take into account the level of costs in Oslo, as the draft programme from the Oslo Workers' Party expresses it, but the Municipality of Oslo cannot, whether it is one party or another, change the rules of the Husbanken. In any case, many in the start-up phase will not be able to buy their own home with current prices in Oslo, either because they do not receive enough loans or because the equity requirement is too high. For these, rental homes and low-deposit dwellings are an alternative — well, note if there is an alternative available. The development of rental dwellings is therefore becoming a very important and necessary housing measure in Oslo in the future, which must be given high priority by both government and municipal authorities. I think it is affordable that the majority of the committee believes it is necessary to review the framework conditions that should be changed in order for municipalities, housing companies and others on a non-commercial basis to create more rental offers with an appropriate price level and standard. Oslo also has a desperate need for student housing. Oslo has today, with the University and the universities that exist, public and private, approx. 45,000 students. Here it is necessary to look at the interaction between Student and the host municipality and to ensure that this works. I am calling for the investigation work on cooperation between the university and the host municipality requested by the Stortinget in December 1996. Oslo as a big city attracts people with different social problems. Here they can hide away, at good and bad. Today's hospice use is a very poor solution. Appropriate housing needs to be combined with aftercare for those with drug problems, and it is time for this to be taken seriously. Different types of lowthreshold services need to be established. Often small collectives with shared kitchens and day-to-day after-care facilities are good solutions for those with poor living capacity, as the Committee has also stressed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1021	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1024	It is an important signal when a unanimous committee believes that more student homes should be built and that the Committee stands together on a proposal asking the Government to draw up a stepping-up plan for the construction of several student homes. The same applies to a majority of the Church, Education and Research Committee when dealing with the State budget, but only as a comment. Now the signal should be clear enough. In the same way as in the present setting, the Church, Education and Research Committee and the majority also pointed out that stepping up is not only to be done through increased appropriations but also to look at other aspects that restrict the ability of the communications to build good and reasonable student housing. The rules on land and garages are mentioned in today's position, some more have been mentioned by the church, education and research committee. As has been mentioned earlier in the debate, the Government proposed to transfer responsibility for appropriations for student housing to the budgets of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. In the view of the Workers' Party, it would be unfortunate, not because we have more faith in Minister of Education Jon Lilletun than in the Minister of Municipal Affairs in this area, but because we can't in any way see that it will facilitate the situation of student relations, which is responsible for the construction of student housing. For us in the Workers' Party, it seems contrary to the fact that the regime that the Government has set up would be more bureaucratic and heavy. The proposal to close the Student Housing Advisory Body (ROS) was a natural consequence of the proposal to transfer responsibility to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. An equally natural consequence would be if the majority, who said no to transfer, would also maintain ROS. Therefore, it seems rather strange that the government parties in Stortinget are still transferring responsibility from the Ministry of Church, Education and Research to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, but will nevertheless retain the ROS. What you've done for here is not completely logical. It's still a parentheses. The important thing now is that there are clear signals about increased bets on student housing, and I look with excitement until the Stortinget gets the escalation plan for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1036	The reason why I take the floor is that the representative Marit Nybakk chooses to go up and repeat a claim that I cancelled in the line change instead, namely that SV has proposed to earmark some of the house banking funds specifically for Oslo. What I've said is that it's likely that a lot of increased mortgage funds will go to Oslo. That's the reality, I've said that once before, and it's obvious that it has to be repeated several times. One thing that has been little mentioned in this case, but which comes up later today, is that what we are doing here is happening in parallel with a deregulation in relation to those dwellings especially in Oslo and Trondheim that now have regulated rentals, i.e. the quite many apartments – 12,000 – that have low rentals. It is clear that they have an important function in the housing market. And when we deregulate that market, while we're now looking at the construction of non-profit rental properties, it can get a lot worse if you deregulate and can't get a proper development offensive started in the other areas. In the case of student housing, many people have been up and talked about them, and I perceive that there has to be a rise in that area if there is to be any significant difference. Then there can be no puslery of hundreds or two hundred homes in addition, there must be a bet of several thousand. So finally, I asked the Council of State in a line instead if it was such that you could imagine that the municipalities would have other opportunities to see the costs in their entirety. But I realized that the council had misunderstood my question a little; she said she wanted the municipalities to make this choice. In fact, my question was whether there is no need here for any changes to the rules that will allow the municipalities to make those choices, for example. choose to cover some of the expenses that people may have, above the social budget. The costs may be much less than the costs received by the municipality at the time of accommodation, e.g.: It is not just a matter of the municipality caring for this responsibility, but there is a need to look at legislation that prevents the municipality from making sensible decisions that are both for the benefit of those who are homeless or in a difficult situation and that will save money for the community. So there's a slightly broader approach to that question than the state council seemed to have perceived.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1045	I think it is gratifying that there is such a broad consensus with regard to the agenda under consideration. Given how fast things happen, and that it might also have to be done faster from both the big city and not least the municipality, I want to point out what the evening post wrote yesterday in its evening number: ‘Dwelling prices explode in the poorest areas of the city.’ And on the other hand, ‘The doubling of housing prices in three years’ time. Now this is the situation in Old Oslo." There are quite significant things that happen in the district – 15 pst. of the population aged over 16 lives on social assistance and unemployment is 9 pst. At the same time, much of what has happened on Grünerløkka is that the poorer people are pushing out. I have registered that the Council of State strongly emphasises the responsibilities of the municipalities, the role of the municipalities, in cooperation with the State. And I fully agree with that, it's not possible for either the municipality or the state to find solutions if you don't have constructive forms of cooperation. I allow myself to ask the Council of State what political cooperation is like between political leadership in Oslo, which has such great challenges, and the ministry. I have a feeling that the political leadership in Oslo is still standing by that it is the market to regulate the problems the city has. And I have a challenge in relation to this, because I have recorded that the Council of State has absolutely shown the will for cooperation. The question is: how does the Council of State feel about the political leadership of Oslo Municipality in the context of the issues that have arisen in this debate today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1061	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[Fotation, see page 2266]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1077	Last year, women in Norway have had the right to self-determined abortion for 20 years – a law that has given women the right to decide over their own bodies and even to make the choice to have children. It has not only provided women with ‘self-rights’ but also, at least equally important, ensuring the health of women in the event of an interruption of pregnancy. While we celebrate the law as a victory for women and women's liberation, it is a fact that we have a government that is opposed to the abortion law and that supports the more or less vulgar struggle of various organisations against self-determined abortion. The working party is not willing to celebrate the right to self-determined abortion before 12 weeks. We don't want to let time go back and put on women the suffering that previously caused illegal abortion. Worldwide, there are an estimated 15 million illegal abortions per year. 150,000 women die as a result of abortion complications. The numbers' speech is ready, they tell us that we have to fight to keep the abortion law as it is today. The need for abortion will always be present to a greater or lesser extent. There is then no good solution other than an abortion law that guarantees women's rights and health. That doesn't mean, however, that we who are followers of self-determined abortion won't protect the unborn life, and that we don't want the abortion numbers to go down further. But the most important thing must always be to protect the born life – we always have to protect all the women who have ended up in the terrible difficult situation of choosing abortion. They must still be allowed to decide for themselves. We also need to protect them against extremists such as Mr Knudsen and Mr Nessa, against Pro Vita and others who add to the already heavy burden of the women who have become unwanted pregnant by cruel means and threats of child-restraint. We need to protect them from those who – I regret to say that – the government is not willing to distance themselves from, but who, on the contrary, they invite into the heat by providing financial support. In the United States, we've seen how bad it can be when abortion fanatics with unacceptable methods have not been stopped in time by responsible politicians. As a responsible politician, I will take a great deal of distance from the extreme means we have also seen in our own country, and I just have to complain that other parties legitimise such an activity through public support. The number of abortions has gone down, and it's very happy. We need to step up efforts to get the numbers even lower. We all agree on that. However, there is considerable disagreement about the instruments involved. We know that the Christian People's Party recipe is to ensure that fewer pregnancies are interrupted, among others. by abolishing the abortion law as it stands today. Our recipe is that fewer pregnancies are started. We have to run pregnancy prevention, not antiabortion campaigns. The means of achieving the target of lower abortion rates must not be a fear of abortion. Scary propaganda against abortion we do not accept! Abortion is also not immoral, it is a completely legal act under Norwegian law. The question is whether prevention is not too difficult to obtain. To get a pill, you need to go to a doctor and do a pelvic examination. For many young girls, this may seem so frightening that they leave it alone. The result is that they do not control the prevention themselves. We know that condoms are usually the responsibility of boys. Someone has it that they don't want to use it, but even more importantly, it's that they're expensive. There are thresholds both in terms of availability and price, which I think contribute to the unneededly high number of abortions among young people. Is it e.g. necessary that only doctors can prescribe pills? In Trondheim, a two-year project is being carried out where girls between 16 and 25 years of age without medical examination can receive free pills at the health centre of a midwife or a health sister. The main goal of the project is to bring down the abortion numbers. Free condoms are distributed and young people receive guidance and free examination for any sexually transmitted diseases. The queue is long those afternoons when the health station is open. Many of those who visit the health centre for young people experience a greater degree of anonymity, and they say that they find it difficult to go to their regular doctor, who is usually the same doctor as the parents go to. This is a very exciting project, which I hope the Minister of Health will follow closely. If the experience from Trondheim is good, we should consider making it a nationwide system. An information campaign on prevention should also be launched. My impression is that one has so far informed about condoms primarily as protection against HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases. Well, it's important to focus on the fact that condom use can prevent unwanted pregnancy. Such a campaign can contribute to a greater awareness of this issue, but must be followed up with improved availability of prevention. One must not be afraid to use the necessary means. If the message is to reach youth, one must address them directly. And if anyone's afraid that such campaigns will contribute to your youth having more sex, at best they're naive. It's a fact that young people have sex, and there doesn't have to be anything wrong with it, as long as they protect themselves from unwanted pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases. Openness about sex and living in today's society, I think, has a positive effect on prevention. Although many young girls find it difficult to go to a doctor for contraception, most people today know a lot about both contraception and sex. But not everyone appreciates the openness around these questions, and I suspect that, for example. The Christian People's Party believes that greater openness leads to a lower sexual morality among young people. It may seem that they want to counter information on prevention, for example: by failing to approve an information video and a CD-ROM produced by the State Health Inspectorate during the harvest. Letting young people see a sexual intercourse on the screen became too strong a diet. It is also a major paradox that the political environments that are opposed to self-determined abortion are often also opponents of relevant sexual education and easier prevention for young people. Experience shows that when the level of prevention and sex knowledge increases, less unwanted pregnancy and lower abortion rates are achieved. In the City of Stovner in Oslo, a project was carried out a few years ago aimed at bringing down the very high abortion rates among the young girls in the district. Sexual education became an integral part of most subjects in secondary school. It focused on the facts about prevention, sexually transmitted diseases, etc., but also the importance of making your own choices and setting your own limits. The result was not only that the number of abortions went down, but also that the date of the onset of intercourse was higher, and that knowledge of gender diseases and prevention increased significantly. However, abortion rates are also relatively high among women over 30 years of age. Not everyone is satisfied with existing contraception when they know that they are not going to have more children. Women take most of the loads when using contraception and the maximum load in the case of an abortion. I believe that men must take far more responsibility for the prevention of unwanted pregnancy. In the Netherlands, abortion rates are very low compared with other countries in Europe, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. is explained by the fact that the sterilisation of men is a priority task in the health care system. In Norway, only 10 pst. by the partners of women over 40 years of age, despite the fact that this is a very simple intervention in men compared to the sterilisation of women. I am fully aware that this takes up the capacity of a health care service that is already under pressure. But it also does medical consultation in connection with pill and spiral use, and not least abortion. On behalf of the Workers' Party, I am presenting today a proposal asking the Government to support the work on a new action plan to prevent unwanted pregnancy and abortion. Recent developments show the need for the public to be the driving force behind the law on abortion in prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1113	The interpellant has taken up the suggestion to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1116	I'm going to focus my first post on answering the main question of the interpellation, on the management of the abortion law and how to ensure objective and truthful information. St.meld. No 16 for 1995-96, About the experience of the Abortion Act, etc., was known as a review of the experience of the Abortion Act. State health surveillance and county doctors supervise the law on abortion and that practices comply with the law. Following the examination of the above notification by the Storting in June 1996, the follow-up focusses on quality assurance and monitoring of the various health services in contact with women requesting abortion. In 1996, county doctors carried out joint supervision of all hospitals carrying out abortions. The supervision has been carried out as system audits and county doctors have examined whether hospitals comply with the legal and regulatory requirements concerning the right to reserve, information and guidance of health professionals for women seeking abortion and notification and registration schemes. In the conclusion of the joint supervision of county doctors, it is stated, inter alia, that:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The general picture obtained from the review of all the reports suggests that, within the revised areas, the establishments are mainly working in line with the legislation’. As part of the follow-up, the National Health Authority was also commissioned to organise regular national conferences for the members of abortion subjects and representatives of other relevant institutions where various issues related to the practice of the law on abortion termination are discussed on a broad basis. Two national conferences have been organised between 1996 and 1998, and a third are being planned this year. The main theme of the 1998 conference was ‘Quality and overall practice’. The main theme of this year’s conference is practice of abortion late in pregnancy. Changes to the notification and registration arrangements were proposed in the abortion notification for all completed pregnancies after the end of the 12th week. In order to fulfil its task of monitoring congenital malformations, it was proposed that the Medical Birth Register should be notified of all completed pregnancies after the 12th week. During the proceedings of the Grand Duchy, the majority of them joined this proposal in the communication. On this basis, the Ministry has drawn up draft regulations which have not been consulted. Both the Ministry of Justice and the National Data Protection Service considered that the basis of law was thin. However, such a permit is proposed in a new law on health professionals, which is being treated here in the house. Furthermore, it has been proposed that this type of notification be included in draft new health record law, which is out of consultation. However, the Data Protection Authority has granted a concession to the Medical Birth Register to receive notifications of all completed pregnancies after the 12th week, provided that the messages are stored only one month before they are deleted. In the light of developments in medical technology, the notification of the abortion proposed updating the regulation and guidance on the abortion law in accordance with the notification. This is now at work in the department. So a few words about information and guidance. During the examination of the abortion report, the Stortinget Government asked the government to carry out a thorough evaluation of the provision of information and advice to women both before and after an abortion. This was the case both for information and counselling services provided by public health services and under the direction of private organisations. This evaluation was carried out by the Social Research Centre at the University of Bergen, SEFOS, on behalf of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The evaluation shows that both public and private institutions focus on the objectivity of their advisory and information work. Furthermore, the evaluation of hospital information activities and the provision of counselling through abortion shows that information is provided in all hospitals, but there are considerable differences between hospitals in the routines and organisation of information activities. It is emphasised that the hospitals as institutions and the personnel who are loyal to the legal assumptions and intentions that no questions should be asked about the choice of the woman. At the same time, it is noted that there are insufficient procedures in hospitals to provide guidance to women who want advice to make the final choice. Furthermore, a common feature of hospital activities is that there is a lack of collective professional attention on the issue of abortion. The majority also decided that the Government should implement a system in which all women seeking abortion receive a standardised information letter dealing with the assistance society can provide to the woman, and information on where she can obtain further information on ethical aspects of abortion. In this context, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has produced three information letters in cooperation with the State Health Authority: a brochure providing information on where the woman can contact for information, guidance and advice; a brochure containing information on the abortion law; and a brochure dealing with abortion interruption procedures. These standardised writings are distributed to all the country's hospitals, health centres and doctors. The Ministry will continue to work on this type of standardised information letter to follow up on SEFOS' evaluation. In this context, particular attention will be paid to the preparation of information for pregnant women on different types of foetal diagnostics. With regard to the activities of primary doctors, the State Health Authority, in cooperation with the Norwegian Medical Association, has published a Handbook on Prevention Guidance and Abortion Advice for General Physicians. This book contains, for example: general guidelines on counselling for abortion seekers and an overview of support schemes in the context of pregnancy, childbirth and young children. The purpose of the book is to ensure that women receive good advice when they seek medical advice to seek abortion. The manual is distributed to primary doctors throughout the country. The SEFOS evaluation also includes the Foundation Alternative to Abortion in Norway – AAN. AAN carries out extensive counselling activities for pregnant women and others through 19 advisory offices throughout the country. It is concluded that the organisation appears modernised and reflected in its operations. At the same time, the report points to the tension in the organisation's two-part objective: TO have an overall objective of protecting the unborn life and reducing abortions, while at the same time providing the broadest possible decision-making basis for the choice that the woman or the couple must make. Strengthening information and guidance measures in the context of pregnancy, prevention and abortion will also be followed up in the new action plan, which replaces the action plan on the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion for 1995-98, for which the interpellant made a proposal to delay. I can inform you that the new action plan will be available in a short time, and that the proposal that was put forward in this way will be to blow open doors. Objectives and areas of action for the new action plan are based on information on the development of abortion rates, on the experience gained in the prevention work of the 1990s and on the results of recent research. The main effort is to prevent unwanted pregnancy, because it is where the potential for prevention is greatest, but it is also focused on the prevention of abortion by ensuring good information procedures and by ensuring that there is a good provision of guidance for those who want it. Young and young adults and groups with a special risk of unwanted pregnancy and abortion are the main target groups for the prevention of unwanted pregnancy. The guiding principle shall be that the target groups shall have the best possible starting point for selecting the desired pregnancy. For the prevention of abortion, the target population is all pregnant, in particular women and couples assessing abortion. The background for selecting young people and young adults as main target groups is related, among other things, to: Among teenagers — 15–19 years of age — and between 20–24 years and 25–29 years of age, the rate of abortion is highest and the potential for prevention is thus highest. The age group of 20 to 24 years has had the highest incidence of abortion in all years since the start of registrations in 1979. While teenagers had higher rates of abortion than women aged 25-29 at the beginning of the 1980s, the ratio was reversed in the 1990s. Prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion is an integral part of the work of the community health service, and training on living and sexuality is a compulsory part of school education following the new 1997 curriculum. The measures in the action plan will therefore constitute only a small part of the overall effort to prevent unwanted pregnancy and abortion, but they should be involved in stimulating increased activity, among others. within the ordinary services. It is important that the school and health sectors cooperate both locally and centrally in this area. I am of the opinion that today's law on abortion is managed after the intention. Based on the SEFOS study, however, there is reason to believe that hospitals have an improvement potential in routines to provide guidance to women who wish to do so. The need for information and guidance from women and couples in the context of abortion needs to be taken into account by health care. Of course, the information is objective and truthful. Interpellant and I disagree on many aspects of the abortion law itself, but we agree that the information given must be objective and truthful. I assume that we also agree that women who assess abortion will receive information about the possibility of advice and guidance. Furthermore, I assume that we agree that it is a goal to prevent as much unwanted pregnancy as possible and abortions. Both of these conditions have been stressed by government and enlargement since the adoption of the abortion law in 1978. I think it's important that someone starts from those questions where there's actually consensus. I am therefore sorry that the interpellant so much used its contribution to putting extremist stamps on those who have a different view of the law itself, to so suspect that the Christian People's Party is not too open about sexuality and cohabitation, a suspicion that is completely unfounded, and to invite a new round of grants to voluntary organizations, which I believe I answered for twelve rounds in the Question Time a month ago, and which I hope we had now finished, so that this debate could become a constructive debate on how to prevent both pregnancy and abortion, which this big thing has agreed to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1166	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for his thorough answers. As the Council of State also says, we agree on central parts of today's abortion law. But I also think it is important that the information given on this sensitive topic is objective and truthful, and then I could not dare to get into the round we had here a few weeks ago just about the support of the Pro Vita organization, because it is a fact that the Council of State itself intervened and gave support to an organization that among most political parties is perceived as being extreme. There is no doubt that this organisation uses instruments that represent clear abuse against Norwegian women. The propaganda film -- I'll call it the Eclipse of Reason -- is an example of such an overtramp. When TV2 revealed what extreme methods are being used by anti-abortion organizations in our own country, they responded by appealing TV2 to the Press Office's Professional Committee. I think it's important as a politician to tap into the kind of information these organizations provide. That is why I think it is also right in a debate on today's abortion law to focus on these issues. Then we must be able to bear the political disagreement as to whether or not to grant such support. We know that worldwide, 100-120 million illegal abortions are committed annually, of which 150 000 have fatal outcomes. Despite this dramatic health problem, in January 1998, that organisation wrote a letter to the WHO main board of directors and warned against just selecting the abortion trailer Gro Harlem Brundtland as head of the World Health Organisation. On 23 August 1998 the Minister for Health said: ‘Providing free prevention to young people is one of the means we need to overcome the excessive number of abortions among young people. In this case, health considerations are, in fact, more important than moral ones." I fully agree with the Minister of Health's assessment. But I allow myself to ask how the Minister of Health has followed up the statements of August 1998 in practice. Finally, I would like to recall what researcher Finn Egil Ssourcedstad at Sintef in Trondheim has said about the development of abortions in Norway. From 1979 to now, abortion rates have remained stable between 14 000 and 15 000 years. Source cities have pointed out that the decline is still dramatic when we take into account that the number of women of childbearing age has increased by around 100,000 over the same period. And because it's 20 pst. more unmarried women today than 20 years ago, Source Town believes that the real decrease in abortion rates is a total of 33 pst. I think this is a perspective that is important to have in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1184	I find that Bekkelem Orheim finds it useful to repeat accusations that I rejected very concretely and directly at the beginning of last month in Stortingen's Question Time. No organizational support has been provided for Pro Vita, nor is it the case that the film to which the interpellant referred has received my support. We agree that it is an overtramp, and I thought it was unnecessary to say it for the 13th or 14th time from this pulpit. Let me then comment on the questions that the interpellant raised more specifically. I am about to say that increasing the availability of contraception is an important part of the prevention of pregnancy. I am of the opinion that protecting life and preventing an increase in the number of abortions is actually more important than the scepticism that might exist against offering free contraception. I therefore think it is entirely in line with this when I have actually followed up an experiment in the municipality of Trondheim with the distribution of free contraception to young people. So the answer to the question of how this has been followed up is: It has been followed up by the experiment that Stortinget asked to do, and I await with interest the evaluation and the results of this Trondheim experiment. Let me conclude by saying that I view these questions as important ethical questions. It is not that the issue of sexuality and living together can be reduced to purely technical issues relating to the availability of different technical contraceptives. Therefore, I also place great emphasis on the fact that the guidance and education that should accompany information and help young people at this important age are information that can also be put into an ethical reference framework. We should also be able to agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1193	I have listened with interest to the interpellant and the Council of State, and will first stress that I think it is most important to prevent unwanted pregnancy and to ensure that we have information both in the schoolwork and in the health care system that is objective and correct, or ‘true’, which I believe the representative Karita Bekkemelme Orheim has said in his interpellation. Since this film was mentioned, I would like to tell you about something that happened ten years ago. Then I was sent from the Workers' Group to represent the party in a panel debate after the presentation of an American anti-abort film in the Mission Hall in Oslo. It was a former director of a private, commercial abortion clinic in the United States who had now become an abortion opponent, who presented the film. The film pretended to show abortion of a 19-week-old fetus. We saw both the tools that were used, drawings of how this was going to happen, and the bloody remains on the table afterwards. We got an interview with two girls who had suffered psychological and physical damage from abortion, and we got in between these scenes to see pictures from Holocaust, starvation disasters, the Vietnam War, etc. Ten years later, exactly the same scenes appear in a film that Pro Vita is now traveling around this country with. I mention this because it's scenes that are old. Now the fetus is supposed to be 23 weeks old. This film is used as a propaganda against our abortion law, which is a law of self-determined abortion within a framework of twelve weeks, and which is an important part of our health law and our health care system and has guaranteed women the right to control their own bodies and ensure that children are wanted, among other things. According to health professionals, this film is also professionally incorrect. I mention this because we're going to know what school youth is going to be exposed to. I have also received brochures about the years from school students who have received material in different contexts, including in Norwegian school, from antiabortion organisations. And in a brochure that I have in front of me, it says, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t "If you have had an abortion, you should know that it is forgiveness for you. It's wrong to have an abortion. Don't beat yourself to death... It doesn't help to push or forget." I don't mistrust the Council of State in any way in what the Council of State says, but I would like it to be a shared responsibility, both for us here, and for the executive part of our authorities, to ensure that the material that exists is both truthful and correct.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1211	I am sorry that I have not been able to follow the debate for various reasons, but I have been given the opportunity to read the Council of State answers. My first reaction is the question of why this debate is being conducted in Stortinget today. I have perceived it as being conducted on the basis of a rather strong drive towards the Minister of Health in an earlier Question Time, which again had the background of Pro Vita's so-called abortion film, from which we have all distanced ourselves, including the Minister of Health, we know that. I have it in writing from the Minister of Health, and I suppose the other parties do. Why, then, should we pursue this debate, I must say that I do not understand correctly. If we go into one of the last things that the Minister of Health here has done from the pulpit, he says, among other things. the following: ‘I am of the opinion that today’s Abortion Act is managed in accordance with the intention.’ I believe that. There is no point at all in any document or in any statement that the Minister of Health and the Government would not do so. Two proposals have been tabled and three minutes are fast. I just want to explain these proposals and how we deal with them. The first thing I want to say is that I recommend to the Workers' Party to convert these proposals into transmission proposals. That's the right way to do it, after we've heard the Minister of Health's comments. If not, I would recommend my group to vote against both proposals. I would like to make a brief final comment on proposal No. Article 2 is replaced by the following: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that uniform information is provided...’ Should it have been "uniform"? Is that what's meant? We have here a description of a public evaluation of the activities of the AAN offices that are very positive. There is also no point of attack from the other side of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1238	When I hear the articles of the Workers' Party here – I regret having to say that – it reminds me of children in their trajectory. And children in trajectory ask the same question repeatedly. They get answers, but the questions come over and over again. And it seems like there's no point in giving them answers to the pulpit, because they don't listen. They come up with the same question and the same statement over and over and over again. In a round in the questionnaire for approx. Three weeks ago, the Minister of Health gave a thorough response to this with Pro Vita and extremists. He has done it here today, but nevertheless they choose to use large parts of their posts on that very thing. I could have repeated the answers, that there is no review in the Health Authority, that there were more funds left, etc., but there is no intention to repeat the answer, because they do not listen. RadiOrakel has also received support from the department. Is it extremists the other way maybe? No one has asked questions about this. There are many who are receiving support for abortion prevention measures. And I think that if we had put an even greater emphasis on information and advice -- not by extremists, we've all been away from it -- the numbers of abortions would have been much lower. That is why, in the Christian People's Party, it is strange to record the struggle of the Workers' Party in the budgetary processes to reduce support for, for example, AAN offices, Alternatives to Abortion in Norway. DO NOT express itself in favour of or contrary to the law of abortion, but fulfills its intention to provide information and advice to women who need it. The organisation is religiously and politically independent. An evaluation of AAN shows that 90 pst. users believe that AAN is a very good offer that must be kept in addition to the public. But the Labour Party has repeatedly proposed reducing the appropriations for these, rather than – if they really want to bring down the number of abortions – looking at the diversity, who does something of the private ones as well, and really does something positive. It would be a pleasure if we could stand together in the fight for it. Of course, when it comes to sexual education, the Christian People's Party wants it to be good. The film that the State Health Authority has made is very good, but there are some things missing. And we've said there should be something else. Of course, it's important to have information, we're very concerned about that. If we are to ensure that today's abortion law is managed according to our intention, it is important that the objectives are achieved through counselling. Both abortion-seeking women and health professionals have been concerned that this part of the law has been overly followed. I refer to the ‘Evaluation of maternity counselling activities’ in the 1998 SEFOS report. Because the woman is in a difficult situation, the Christian People's Party also wants mandatory advice. Many turn out to deal with the situation they're in, better, no matter what choice they've made, if they've got advice. – My time is up, so I’m sorry, I can’t reach anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1249	Law of self-determined abortion is strong in today's Norway. The experience with the law is good. The number of abortions has not increased significantly, they have sometimes decreased, after the law was passed, despite the fact that the opponents of the law at the time of fear and perhaps also alarmed that conditions would become unsustainable if we had a self-determined abortion law before the 12th week of pregnancy. However, the majority of Norwegian women, young and old, do not use abortion as a contraceptive, and the large majority do not take the matter of late births lightly either. Against this background, like the two previous speakers, I am a little surprised by the interpellation we have received today. I basically agree with the Minister of Health, who felt that this was «exploiting open doors». The interpellant opened by saying that ‘the working party is not willing to celebrate the right to self-determined abortion before 12 weeks’. No, of course not. Something else would be surprising both from the Workers' Party, from the Right and from many other parties, I think. So what is it that you're afraid of? I have the impression, as I said, that the abortion law is strong, and there are no strong forces, either in the political parties here in the hall or outside or in groups of people who are not politically engaged, to change the law. Of course, we still have opponents both inside and outside this house. Yes, there may unfortunately also be some with extreme attitudes, some extremists, and perhaps some of them vote Christian People's Party for everything I know, but I don't feel that such forces are represented here in the house, either among the representatives or among the members of the Government. We should be glad that these forces have marginal support and that the means they use meet with the general range. That's why I think it's unfortunate that the Workers' Party – that's how it works with me – is trying to construct a great deal of uncertainty about the abortion situation. That is not the reason, and I hope, like several others, that the interpellant will re-do its only proposal for a transmission proposal, because I think the Minister for Health has responded in an excellent way that the action plan called for is in good hands and, hopefully, will come in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1262	In Stortingen's treatment of St. meld. No 16 for 1995-96 On experience with the law on abortion, etc., high emphasis was placed on quality assurance and supervision of the various parts of healthcare relevant to the request for termination of pregnancy and the possible execution of abortion. It is the State Health Authority and the County Medical Practitioners who have and are to supervise this. As confirmed by the Minister of Health, such a system of supervision was implemented in 1996 in all hospitals carrying out abortions. Among other things, it was examined whether these institutions followed up and practised the requirements in relation to information and guidance for women seeking abortion, and also whether the notification and registration schemes are being properly practised. The conclusion of the County Medical College's supervision and supervision is something general as it is referred to here, but says that in all cases the work is in line with the legislation. This makes it necessary to continue working on quality assurance and the development of professional competence and equal treatment in the health sector. I think the Minister of Health here today has clearly confirmed that this is going to happen, and that it is happening, and that it is being followed up in the new action plan to replace the current action plan on the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion. With regard to the wish of the Storting to carry out a thorough evaluation of the information and counselling activities for women before and after the termination of pregnancy, both under the direction of public health and private organisations, such an evaluation has been carried out on behalf of the Ministry of Social and Health of the Centre for Social Research at the University of Bergen. This study shows that practice and routines are too different in our hospitals, and this has also been addressed by the Ministry by increasing the professional competence of the health sector and making practice more equal and quality assurance through stronger standardisation. This should all be satisfied with, including the Workers' Party. I'm not going to say more about these plays that came here, but I think we're going to stick to the facts. Time does not allow me to go into several aspects of today's practice, but in political terms there must be reason to sum up and underline that, after all, there is a great deal of consensus. Then you should also practice objective and truthful information and advice. The main objective of all of us must be to prevent this, so that we can minimise the number of abortions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1277	What you can establish as absolute is that the law of self-determined abortion is firm. No one has suggested that it should be changed, and I fully agree with Annelise Höegh's assessment that there are no signs in society that there are strong forces in swing to allow self-determined abortion to change. At the same time, it is seen in different parties that measures are being taken to reduce the number of abortions. That's what I think is important, and it's a perspective that's important to bring with it. It is gratifying that the Workers' Party, through this interpellation, emphasizes it, and of course there is no reason to doubt that in the Christian People's Party one should be concerned with finding ways to reduce abortions. It's been mentioned here Pro Vita and that movie. In a society where different actors will be able to express different views, estimates will also be made. It will not be to avoid as long as you have freedom of expression, as long as you have a democracy. Then you can say – I guess everyone here agrees – that that kind of estimate is very regrettable. But I think the more attention you give to such an organization, the more it achieves with it. In many ways, it can be said that the purpose of this type of feature is to focus on the organisation and on what a movie shows. Maybe it would've been best to keep it in check. In any case, it seems pointless to me here, when the Council of State has so clearly stated that it is taking away from that type of ‘information material’, to try to make a connection between the Council of State and Pro Vita, even if in other contexts funds could have been given to different organisations. The Socialist Left Party, too, has in the past, on the issue of abortion, taken up the use of the abortion pill as part of medical abortion. In my view, a satisfactory response was then received from the Council of State, the sum of the impressions given by the Government, that it is loyal to a majority in the United Kingdom in relation to the abortion law. But what you can never take from anyone is that you can, precisely because these are questions about ethics, take a different view of that question. We must not get into such a situation in Stortinget that we seek to humiliate others because you have an engagement, a vision, that goes in a different direction than what you have, as long as you are loyal to the majority in the Storinget. So that loyalty should be lacking here from the Government, I personally cannot see with my best will. Had it done so, they had received signals from the Government that they wanted to change the abortion law, SV would of course, like the Workers' Party and other parties who have been strong for abortion law, have turned it down and argued strongly against it. But we don't think we can do that right now, because we don't see that kind of signal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1290	The Health Minister said in his statement that he and the interpellant had different views on the central parts of the abortion law. The same applies to the Minister of Health and the Left. However, we have full confidence that he will ensure that the current legislation is implemented in the best possible way. This is confirmed in the Adult Document. Today's interpellation bears the mark of soup cooking on a small, old nail. It starts with a sentence that then gets suspended in the air. It can be read that the Minister of Health will respond to whether the abortion law is managed according to the intentions, because an additional antiabort organisation has received support for ‘projects’ — in majority. The Health Minister replied to Brustad's question-time question about this on 3 February, where it was said that one – not a majority, but one – of Pro Vita's project had been supported, in line with several other extra-territorial organisations. He stressed that there were individual projects supported, not organisations' operations. We are convinced that the Minister of Health did this without him – and here I quote the representative Brustad – ‘let his own moral and religious convictions govern more than the consideration of the girls we are talking about here’. It must be allowed to have different abortions, just as full as it is allowed to have different views of most. It must be equally clear that it is the law that applies. In this way, we should be more good at investigating more often whether the laws work as intended. In the left, we believe that today's abortion legislation is reasonable. But the technological development of medicine is moving fast. For example, abortions late in pregnancy are problematic. We are therefore very pleased that this year’s Health Authority conference will focus on this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1306	It's an important theme the interpellant addresses today. Governments responded, inter alia: pointing out the importance of school-health cooperation. In this context, it is in fact a point to point out the unreasonable fact that the Government first stopped and then introduced a 16-year-old age limit on an information film on life and sexuality and a CD-ROM that aimed to provide increased knowledge of youth life and sexuality. This was an information material developed in view of young people aged 12-13-14, and then a 16-year-old age limit is set. As everyone here is probably well aware, research shows that information has to be provided at an early stage, and when one does, it works prevention. Many make their debut before they're 16. No politicians can prevent it, whether we want it or not. So it's too late to give information to 16-year-olds. Then you talk about the importance of school and the importance of prevention. I guess that's good. But you have to admit, in addition to that, what it's like out there, outside the walls of both the Ministry of Health and the Storting. In the debate today, several have questioned the fact that the interpellant has taken on the great freedom to promote this interpellation. For some it may be unpleasant to stand up for their opinions, but for the Workers' Party it is not. With a government where the largest lot is opposed to today's abortion law, it must be the law of the largest opposition party to practice a certain level of cautious pressure. It also helps – now that the Council of State has actually launched a free prevention project in Trondheim. Now the Ministry of Health is working with a new action plan on unwanted pregnancy and abortion. In this context, I will challenge the Council of State in one area: Today you can get the so-called attacker if you fear that you have become unwanted. However, the attacker must be taken within 48 hours of intercourse, and today you need to see a doctor to get the pill. It's not always that easy to do. I think it should have been easier to access this attacker, and I wonder if the Council of State will take the initiative to develop trial schemes so that the attacker can be used without necessarily going to a doctor within 48 hours.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1319	Today's debate shows that today's abortion law has broad support in Stortinget. The Christian People's Party is the only party that is opposed to the principles of self-determination in today's law. So at this point, I fundamentally disagree with the representative, Bekkelem Orheim. We are not going to discuss the right of self-determination today. I want to focus on what we agree on: we have to, to quote from the law: ‘ensure that all receive ethical guidance, sexual education, knowledge of life issues and the provision of family planning, thereby creating a responsible position on these issues so as to minimise the number of abortions.’;» We know that women who assess abortion are in a very difficult and vulnerable situation. The Christian People's Party is for mandatory advice for women in this difficult situation. Eventually we also know something more about post-reactions after abortion. For the time being, little has been researched in this area in Norway. However, Aker Hospital conducted a 1996 survey entitled ‘Social and emotional factors in women seeking abortion. Pre- and post-intervention reactions.’ The report indicates that several studies highlight the importance of a supportive network to reduce conflicts in the decision-making process and negative post-intervention reactions. A well-worked abortion decision where all emotions have been expressed reduces the risk of mental retardation. Many bodies can contribute in this area. AAN is an important offer mentioned. The annual report of the AAN in the Agder counties shows that the consultations have increased by 25 p.m. last year. The main reason is post-abort. Youth health centres are another important offer in the prevention of abortion. The three information letters from the department I think are good. They contribute to equal and standardised information across the country. Today’s abortion law outlines counselling as an important tool to reduce abortion rates. The reason many people refuse advice is that it is often listened too little and is argued the more. The intention must be a dialogue and reflection that gives room for reflection. Based on SEFO's studies, I see that the trade unions have a part to reach such a value-conscious abortic counseling.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1339	Experience with the Abortion Act was discussed in Stortinget on 12 June 1996. That treatment showed that after almost 20 years, the principles of law stood firm, with the graduation and maritime policy up to and including 12 weeks. We are pleased that we have such a law, which means that there is no danger to women's life and health by carrying out illegal abortions. During the examination of the 1999 budget in December last year, the Government presented a performance report for the previous year. This showed that the number of abortions had decreased by 300 between 1996 and 1997. The second lowest figure since 1983 — a total of 14 000. In order to achieve the objective of fewer unwanted pregnancies and abortions, it is important to work for good information on life, sexual life and prevention. Good information at youth premises in high school is important. Studies show that the safest contraceptives are not sufficiently known among young people. In addition, young people appear to be expensive prevention. All things can be done better. Information for young people should continue to be developed, adapted to the time in which we live, and on the premise of young people. The information films and the CD-ROM game Health Inspectorate developed last autumn seem to be something that can be obtained from young people. Prevention is most important. It should be the first item on the agenda, not the latex and forced information for the abortion seeker. The information provided to women seeking abortion should be consistent and consistent with the provisions of the law across the country. I can't believe that the Workers' Party and SV were alone on that proposal in the budgetary procedure before Christmas, while the Committee was gathered about the same in a note. Studies show that information is provided at all hospitals, but there are considerable differences in the routines and organisation of the information activities. An action plan for the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion is mentioned in St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99, page 174. The aim is to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies – the resource is good enough information to prevent unwanted pregnancies. The trial project on the information and distribution of free contraception and the printing of pills is under way in selected parts of Trondheim, which is a follow-up to last year's budgetary remarks. I have read the annual report from the health centre for young people in Trondheim. It emphasises in its basic view the freedom of the judiciary and the neutrality of life in its information, and no theme is taboo. It turns out that the neighbouring municipality also has young people visiting this health centre, who have received a special concession to distribute free pills to girls between 16 and 25 years of age. These are followed up at intervals of three and six months. I think this is a very good measure, and that the equivalent should come in more places. I hope that such good action will be included in the new action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1356	Abortion is still a sensitive issue in our society. That there is political disagreement in this matter, there is no doubt either. The Christian People's Party and the Advance Party don't like having a discussion that goes on much more than an abortion movie. I must say to the representative Alvheim that he had heard really after I kept my post, he would have heard that I strongly stressed the prevention and the good measures directed at the youth. Getting such a debate also in this room should be no fear of. 'To blow open doors,' said the representative, Hoegh. The truth is, abortions are today high — too high. Having a debate in the Grand Hall on concrete measures, and focusing on a broad plan of action against abortion, I honestly thought that also the Right could support it in a constructive way. There was nothing in my post that suggested that I believe that there is now a very large and new political disagreement about the abortion law in Norway. But it's a fact and a fact that it's working against the school and the youth community, against the abortion law. I've seen part of the information material being presented, and I'm taking a great distance from it. I had hoped that all the parties in this house could dare to take a debate on concrete actions aimed at youth groups. I can't wait to tell the representative, Ballo, that there was nothing in my post that said that I suspected or accused the Minister of Health of not doing his job by saying that the law on abortion was not managed after the intention. An important issue for me has been how the school and health sectors cooperate on these important issues. I have to say that I am very surprised at the tone of some of the posts we have heard here today. This initiative on the part of the Workers' Party was much more than whether you are in favour of or against today's abortion law, or about an extreme abortion film. But many times it may be the most pleasant thing not to take some debates that are sensitive and difficult, and rather suspect the underlying motives. As far as my proposal is concerned, I have heard what the Minister for Health has said in his speech. I feel that it is good enough that this proposal is sent over to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1367	Karita Bekkemelm Orheim has thus made his proposal for a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1370	I have listened to the debate and to the interpellant's articles, now last but not least, and choose to take the interpellant on the word when she says that the starting point here is that the abortions are too high. I fully agree with that. Other speakers have presented the Christian People's Party programme on abortion law. This starting point gives me a strong commitment to work for pregnancy prevention and abortion prevention. This is precisely why we have supported the development of a new action plan on pregnancy prevention and abortion prevention. It's around the corner. That's why we've also invested more resources on abortion prevention. In fact, there has been no greater resources deployed in this field in previous budgets than is the case in 1999. I also agree with the interpellant that we must tolerate the objective and true presentation of these questions, and that we must strive to do so in the information to be provided. That is why I would also like to say that we have to tolerate a democratic debate on these issues, but it is up to everyone who takes part in this debate to use such instruments and expressions that they do not drag on other people. In-depth evaluations have been carried out of the information and guidance provided to women seeking abortion. The research evaluation shows that AAN, the private offer, actually gets very good character. I think that's worth noting. The criticism is most strongly against the public hospitals. It is a responsibility that I undertake to do something about the work that we are now doing. In conclusion, let me say that no one has stopped the information material of the Health Authority. It was transmitted to the education authorities. They made a professional educational assessment and that assessment was appropriate and needed for educational guidance material in school. It is now the work of health authorities and education authorities. I believe that technological developments will mean that we still need to conduct these kinds of debates, that we need to focus on information, both on relief measures and on sexuality and life in the future. I want to make sure that there is a debate that is based on a true basis, as the intention has been with the play-out here today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1385	Case No. So 3 is the final debate. [[See page 2268]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1399	I just want to express a wish that when we come to voting, we are allowed to vote on our proposal first, which is case no. 5, and then subsidized to the Labour Party's proposal, case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1404	It's okay. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2268]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1420	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2268]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1434	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2268]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1448	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2269]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1462	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2269]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1478	In the spring of 1974 the Storting adopted a new law on concession and public pre-emption rights for the acquisition of real estate. The law regulates and controls the movement of all real estate and is certainly the strongest interference with private property and rule of law ever implemented by the State. I'll call it all a bit Stalinist. When examining the application for a concession, the authorities may take decisions on the use of State pre-emption rights. This means that privately concluded contracts for the purchase of a property can be sovereignly disregarded by a public body. Of course, there are major protests against this state intervention around the Norwegian countryside. I feel these protests are about to arrive. It's actually like 40 pst. the purchase and sale agreements entered into are converted by the parties involved, because the public intervenes in this pre-emption. In the past, it was not even such that one could withdraw a sale if one repented, and one often had to sit and see that one's own property was parted by the public and distributed to neighbours as additional land. The abolition of the so-called "table prisoner" paragraph meant that one of the most extreme features of the concession law was removed. On several occasions, the right has proposed amendments to different provisions of the concession law, at the latest in Document No. 8:113 for 1997-98, which was promoted in June 1998. In short, this proposal was intended to clarify and extend the scope of the Directive, to abolish the State's pre-emptive right, to abolish the State's right to set prices, and to raise the concession limit to 50 days. When the matter was dealt with here in Stortinget, it received a treatment that is not quite unusual when a government has notified a notice in the matter, it was sent to the government to be seen in a larger context. I sincerely hope that the announced agricultural message will follow the plan suggested by the Council of State and the Government. What is my reason for addressing this interpellation is not the fact that the matter will be investigated in the context of the agricultural communication. The reason for this interpellation is the fact that it will take winter and spring before there will be any legislative changes. Unfortunately, it provides the bulk of the population. However, I have registered that there is movement in the positions of several parties in this matter, and it promises well. Now, as far as I know, the Central Party's agricultural policy sample has concluded that the State's pre-emptive right is to be abolished. It has even been claimed that the inaugural leader of the Central Party shall be part of this majority. Well, that gives us interesting perspectives. It may at least mean that gradually there will be members of the government who share the Right's view of this. One must at least be able to call this new signal from that edge. In the Workers' Party, as far as I have been able to register, it has been a significant development in the attitude to these matters. I have noticed that there has even been a case at the National Labour Party meeting. From the National Government of the Labour Party it was said that the concession limits should be multiplied, and the national meeting also ended with the idea of raising this limit, which is now 5 days. I have also noticed that representatives in a more free dressage have gone even further. This promises well for a matter area where public spending too much resources, and where there is absolutely unnecessary interference with private property rights. When it is that more and more people are beginning to divide Right skepticism into concession rules and public conduct policy – not only among people in the countryside but also among politicians, one would think that things could start to happen – and it might be a little faster. Unfortunately, that is not the case. On the contrary, The Council of State indicated that this would take time, even a very long time. I wish the government had made the changes a little bit faster, but I see that it doesn't work. That's the reason for this interpellation. So the best thing would have been a change of laws. When it doesn't work, I want the second best, that's a much more liberal practice of the legal provisions we have. Concession law can be compared with a knit - you can stretch it in all directions and nevertheless claim that the discretion you have exercised is within the law. On a case-by-case basis, we consider that agricultural administration and political authorities locally, at state level and centrally disagree on both concession and state pre-purchase law. The different positions tend to have the same basis, but different conclusions. We all know that there are few policy areas that are more vulnerable to the influence of decision-makers than just this area of activity. After 15 years in local government, I know most of it. The reason for this is, of course, the great degree of discretion you can and should use. I have said this before, and I would like to repeat it: the legal security of the individual buyer and the seller often comes completely into the background of this type of case. It has been raised beyond doubt that the government has a great swirling mouth in this kind of matter, if the will is present. What is the issue today is whether the Government is willing to take the signals in time about a more liberal attitude, to grant concessions and to avoid state pre-emptions against the will of the parties. It is not a question of the letter of the law – we know it – but whether the Council of State will give signals of changed practice. I would like to remind you that the government willoch when it took over, not only changed practice, it even made decisions that had already been taken on state procurement, with the result that compensation had to be paid. As far as I'm concerned, it was worth the price. Statistics from that time on, I think it might be a clue that it's the attitude to the subject matter that's important, not what's the letter of the law. I hope the Council of State in this interpellation debate today can give a comment that goes in the direction of being willing to look at this. Thus, the Council of State has an excellent opportunity to reduce the misconceptions that often occur in rural areas when these matters are being dealt with. We've seen a lot of things. We've also seen individual things that have ended up in this hall. Therefore, my simple question to the Council of State today: Will the Government, until a change of law takes place, practise a more liberal interpretation, more in line with what a majority now might actually seem to mean? It's not just that people's perception of what's right and wrong in these cases has changed, because it's quite obvious, but as I said, I have registered that more parties – even government parties – are about to take a different stance. Then I think it would be strange if we were to continue with practice as if there had not been any changes in the attitude to these kinds of issues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1512	The majority of the Economic and Social Committee shall sit at the Innst. S. No 24 for 1998-99 requested that the concession law and other relevant laws be assessed by the Government in the context of the agricultural notification. For the acquisition of agricultural property, it would be natural to take into account the land limits of the concession law and the discussion of the use of the State’s pre-emptive right in connection with this notification. I have earlier, including on 22 April 1998, in response to the Interpellation promoted by Ansgar Gabrielsen, it was considered that the Pre-Federal Court Institute will be further assessed in the agricultural notification. As a result, issues of raising land borders and the question of maintaining the State’s pre-emptive right will be addressed by the Government, but in a broader and comprehensive context. One of the aspects to be considered is the importance of the pre-emption right institution in affecting the property structure. For my part, I am open to review changes in soil and concession law. However, in my opinion, it is not appropriate to make an isolated assessment either of the concession limits or of the use of the pre-buying right institution. The challenge is to assess a change in an overall context in order to contribute to the decent development of land use and property. It is important here to consider the land lease issues and their possible regulation as part of the whole. Furthermore, we should consider coordination with the provisions for the payment of production supplements. The possibility lies in looking at an overall package of instruments in a new way. It is a difficult review that I intend to get back to in connection with the message. However, I would like to add a few words to the question of raising the area limits of the concession obligation and the question of the use of the State’s pre-purchase right. As I understand it is also the practice of the agricultural authorities to submit the agricultural notification, which the interpellant believes is grounds for objecting to. It is based on the concession law that the acquisition of all immovable property triggers the concession obligation. However, the applicable law contains rules on exemption from the obligation. These rules mean that the vast majority of transfers of property trigger the obligation to grant a concession. It is traded in excess of 130000 real estate annually. Statistics from recent years show that approx. 3.5 pst. these transfers are subject to concession treatment. In general terms, the concession obligation today is triggered for agricultural property, for larger inhabited properties, for unregulated land and plots for residential, commercial or leisure purposes and for other uninhabited land. Where the acquirer is closely related to the seller, the concession obligation is not triggered. The need to control land use or ownership differs according to the area under acquisition. The Economic and Social Committee proposed in 1995 among others: that the land limit should be increased for the acquisition of commercial and residential property where the land was regulated for such purposes in accordance with the Planning and Building Act and where the transferee would use the land in accordance with the regulatory objective. However, the sample did not propose a change in the land limit for agricultural property. The reason was that a concession treatment could prevent the acquisition of land by persons who are not to use the land for agricultural production. Furthermore, it was shown that the rules of the concession law on agricultural property must also be seen in conjunction with the other parts of the legislation governing the use of land. This was particularly relevant to the coherence with the rules of the Law on Earth. I agree with the sample that increasing the land area limit could have an impact on soil protection. The importance will be greatest in densely populated areas where there may be large conflicts of interest related to land use. What other consequences such a change may have — whether the consequences are positive or negative — I will, as the Stortinget has foreseen, come back to the message of agriculture. I think it is not desirable to anticipate these overall assessments by introducing temporary changes in the scope of the concession obligation. Rules of a temporary nature in this area could both weaken soil protection and pre-estimation for those who place agricultural property on the market, while at the same time entailing significant conversion costs. The framework for the use of State pre-buying rights in the trading of agricultural property is primarily provided by the soil policy objectives set out in the objectives of the Law. The current law on the land was adopted in the Grand Duchy by 1995 and builds in particular: on the agricultural policy objectives adopted by the Storting in the treatment of St.prp. No 8 for 1992-93, Developed agriculture. Decisions shall be taken under the law in force where, based on a long-term perspective, a focus is on housing, employment and operationally sound solutions. The Ministry of Agriculture’s last report on the practice of soil and concession law was promoted in the spring of 1996. In cap. IV in the Communication outlined a brief set of important considerations and priorities that the management would face in its discretionary considerations. As an annex to this Communication also followed a circular on the purpose of the Law, including: were presented with these key assessment elements. During the treatment in Stortinget, there were no critical comments on what was said in the chapter. IV, or what was mentioned in the Annex. Currently no statistics are available for the year 1998 showing the use of the country’s pre-emptive right for rationalisation purposes. There are therefore no figures for practice in my time as the Council of State. In my view, deciding on the use of the State’s right of pre-emption poses difficult balances. Many of the cases also offer a number of doubts. However, I have, as former government councils, based on a judgement that pre-purchase can only be used if there is no doubt that this will be a better solution based on the rules of the law of the land and the law of the concession. In Ot.prp. No 23 for 1998-99, which will be dealt with by Odelstinget later today, I have also made proposals for amendments to the concession law, so that, as a pilot project, the municipality is given the power to decide on matters relating to the exercise of its right of pre-emption, with the exception of pre-purchase in order to satisfy general nature protection and open-air interests. The scheme is initially planned as a pilot project in three counties – Nordland, Sogn and Fjordane and Uppland – to gain experience in such a delegation. In these cases, the County Agriculture Boards will act as the Board of Appeal. In my opinion, the delegation of the decisions in itself is no guarantee of better and safer decisions. However, it could lead to accountability of municipalities, which in turn may lead to greater importance for local authorities’ assessment of what will provide the best solution for the purposes of the Law on Soil and Concessions than through the current division of tasks. Such a delegation will also lead to a faster procedure. I don't think it's right to practice a more liberal interpretation of the law on the basis of statements that may have come from individuals from different parties on the Stortinget. The nature of the changes must be determined by the treatment and decision of the Storting. For me as the Council of State, that would have to be the starting point for the treatment and administration I'm going to exercise as the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1542	I thank the Council of State for their response. At least that doesn't give the very big perspectives of radical change, but the Gjønnes isn't a radical man either. I had at least believed that statements from the government parties and members of the parties that constitute a majority could have affected the attitude of the Council of State, for I cannot help but think that the Council of State is pushing the Storting a little ahead of him when he says that he will only make changes based on what the Council had to adopt. It is quite clear that the position of the Council of State will be crucial for the 1998 statistics, which he said are not yet available. It is clear that the position of the Council of State here is absolutely crucial for what is happening, not just for the ministry. If the department had signaled something out to the states and municipalities, this could have been passed on, and it could have opened up a change in practice until we had a possible change in the concession law, which I expect we'll get on the basis of the signals that others have given. It is difficult to say that the concession law has been an unconditional success overall. And when it comes to price regulation, we see that in some states it is up to 15-20 pst. of all the earth that is now owned by the mortal. This is a signal that you do not want to make these disposals, because the price is too low. I could imagine asking the Council of State to what extent he thinks this concession law has been excellent, and what may have been so successful with it, and if not a changed attitude here might be able to revitalize the towns to a greater extent than what seems to be the case now, with these pre-purchase cases. He mentioned this test project. That I think might be a reasonable way to go, and there's probably also general excitement about here in the Storting. But it's important in such a trial project to follow the development we get in this respect with the State's pre-emptive right. Because it's not always that when knowledge and friendship are greater, we get the most objective decisions. I could imagine asking the Council of State about his general view of how this concession law has been a positive element for the development of the towns.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1559	The representative Gabrielsen and the Council of State have probably had two different starting points for the debate, since the Right has always been against this law and believes that the law is today an approximate ‘stalinist’ law. From the Council's point of view, the concession law, as I perceive it and see it, has contributed to the fact that there is still a ownership relationship with the operation and the owner that I want us to maintain. At the same time, we've seen a development in which many of the owners don't run. One can wonder what this will lead to in the end, when it comes to how we're going to recruit to Building Norway. If we imagine that we should remove the concession law – something that the council doesn't see for itself, I can say that here and now – there should possibly be regulation at the bottom, without me imagining the quite dramatic numbers there either. I'll evaluate this. If we're going to let this go freely, without price regulation, I'm going to, at least initially, make some reflections on what recruitment we're going to have to go to Building Norway, and then based on the general agricultural policy that a majority of the Storting has set out, on what the profitability of the industry is, and on what the price of the market is for the properties that are the basis for farming. It must be right, as I've tried to express in my post, to look at this in context and not to pick out bit by bit. I think that would be very unfortunate. The fact that many today have property through the home of the dead is unfortunate. There is also something that you need to look at; how we can prevent that kind of development through regulation. It can also be controlled, if we wish, in the future. So to this that the Council of State is not influential in terms of the point of view that comes from the Storting. Well, the Council of State is listening to what comes from the Stortinget. But I think that if the Storting discovers that a government has a government moving away from what is the intention of the legislation that has been decreed in the Stortinget, he will lie extremely thin. If there's something I've learned, it's just that it's the kind of administration, also exercised by a government council, the Storting is extremely guarded against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1577	I can confirm, on a case-by-case basis, that the Workers' Party is also assessing the concessional limit, and the Workers' Party's national meeting has decided that the concessional limit should be raised. But there's a debate in the party about where the new frontier is going, and I think it's important to stress that that debate has to be about something more than just thinking about a number. It is important to put that debate into context, because, as far as the concession threshold is concerned, an assessment must be made, in order to determine the size of a property in order to give significant commercial income. And once again, it'll depend on a lot of assessments, for example. the type of production to be carried out on the property. Many geographically related assessments must also be carried out here. The question raised by the interpellant is a question that so absolutely requires a broad assessment, where there are many aspects that need to be considered in the context. Therefore, the Workers' Party agrees that it is right to conclude in the context of the announced big business message on agricultural policy, as the Government has said it should. But it is also very important that it comes as soon as possible, and I hope it comes to the autumn. What becomes the Workers' Party's conclusion, I'm not going to go into, but it's clear that the limit will be higher than five goals, which is the limit today. But I think quite certainly that the border will be significantly lower than 50 targets, for which the Right Party and the Advance Party have agreed. Anyway, we're going to have a new limit, I think the interpellant is right, but we're still going to have properties above this limit where you're going to have concession treatment, where you're going to have market regulation, and where you're going to be able to use, for example. production aid. As far as these properties are concerned, I am quite certain that the Workers' Party will go in so that you can still have a right of pre-emption. But here the conclusions will come in a while. Therefore, I think it is quite right to state that until that happens, we have to deal with today's law and practice, and from my point of view I find no reason to do anything but give the Council of State full support in the conclusion he has drawn today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1584	The political majority in Norway has expressed a desire to raise the level of the concession obligation in relation to the placing on the market of agricultural holdings. It was most recently expressed in the previous article when the Agrarian Spokesman of the Workers' Party mentioned this. But the government has always been a brake block, we have to be able to see that, and it uses, as I see it, the same tactics in raising the concession limits as in many other agricultural policy issues, namely, to show that it is working on the big business message on agricultural policy, which is announced late in the fall. It really means that it might take two to three years to come up with an odelstningsproposition on concession limits. The Progress Party is very impatient in this matter, and many of us want to start a liberalisation process earlier. But it is not a political majority for that, because the Labour Party does not want to do this. They now clearly say that the presentation of the agricultural message is an appropriate time to debate and discuss and put forward the leadership, but the Progress Party will work actively for a foraging, because we do not want to calmly look at hundreds of small farms around the country being empty and rotting at the root because of all the unreasonable regulations. The Progress Party has continuously and for many years made proposals to remove most of the restrictions imposed on the placing on the market of agricultural and forestry property, including current provisions on housing and operational obligations. The 25-year-old concession law must be repealed, so that low prices and evaporation in ownership can be replaced by higher prices, more efficient use of resources and more residents in the country, we believe. In fact, it should be a matter of course that the purchaser and the seller have to decide for themselves the price of the disposal of agricultural property, until no price understanding is needed that encumbers the individual's free choice. Such an enslavement of independent individuals is not only morally reprehensible, but also a violation of the many intentions of modern democracy. The party to the progress does not consider it reasonable to continue the concession law and the public pre-emption law in the case of the acquisition of real estate. Today, there are well-established regulatory plans across the country that provide the community with almost complete control of the disposal of the land base. Public authorities have the power to intervene through other legislation when there are strong societal considerations. My speaking time is up, and I then take up the proposal of the Progress Party, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1595	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1598	It is with some wonder that I am recording this interview, because Stortinget has clearly said that the concession law should be reviewed in the message that is now under work. That work is well under way. In such cases, it must be safe to know that one goes to work thoroughly. In the newspaper Nations on 15 February, the representative Gabrielsen had a chronicle in which he sees a strong commitment to the concession law, the pre-purchase law and the bureaucracy that enforces this law. In this article, Gabrielsen laments that bureaucracy follows the law in such cases. He says so. ‘Tenderness to the letter of the law’ is too great. In my view, such a stop would lead the wrong way. What we might be a few about, is that matters relating to agricultural property are sensitive and trigger a strong commitment to those debts. This is natural, and most people who are up in such a situation will be very emotionally involved. When the 5-declared rule is in place, there is plenty of opportunity to come back to it when the agricultural message is to be processed. One thing I've noticed is that when prominent Norwegian politicians, like former prime ministers, are asked what's important in politics in the future, the answer is often this: taking care of the cultivated land. Soil protection is a very important theme. I'm in agreement with this. If expanding the concession limit beyond 5 decks would lead to a sluggish soil protection, I am skeptical for my part. I see some practical advantages of expanding the limit, but at least not 50 decaves, as suggested here today. All of this allows us to discuss the full width of the agricultural message when it comes to managing it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1611	It is an important topic that is addressed in today's interview, and I honestly think that the Council of State has a very passive approach to what is the whole issue in the matter. At the same time, I have to be allowed to express some satisfaction that the working party train is in a positive motion this time – and it's just to hope that one goes into a conclusion gradually. Very many – not least people in rural areas, but also people in rural areas – will be interested in seeing where the Workers' Party will land. I note that the Council of State does not use a single agricultural policy argument, not a single production policy argument, nor a single regional policy argument. We're talking about an industry that, when we talk about production value, actually does not amount to more than approx. 25 pst. of the total costs, an industry which has direct and indirect State aid in the form of transfers of approximately DKK 20 billion. What you're doing is actually preventing a real price fixing. It helps to prevent a positive influx of capital that could have entered the industry, and it helps with open eyes to weaken the recruitment of the agricultural industry. The right approach here is that it is healthy and positive that as much as possible is given the opportunity to own real estate. We believe that this is better resource use, and actually better economy. And that's not what some people are trying to say, with a bridge to the right, that this is more about soil protection, because there we are at least as good as all the other parties in this room. I think it's important that the government now has to see that there are fewer and fewer people in District Norway, among others. due to agricultural policy legislation, where one chooses to go slowly. There's less to sell milk and bread to, and we also see fewer filling up the classrooms around. The right-hand contribution to this question, on which the interpellant has been involved, is among other things. raising concession limits, and then looking at where to put the roof – it would actually help to make it possible for almost tens of thousands to move from cities to rural areas. That's what would be the positive contribution – but unfortunately you don't have to ask for more evidence to see that the curves go the opposite way. With an open and constructive attitude to these issues — a non-agricultural attitude — you can make a district policy lift, for which the Right now really wants to strike a blow.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1627	The interpellant focuses on the concession boundaries and wants to raise them. The limits are not, and should not be, the main thing in this debate. The main point is the concession law and any amendments thereto. Earth is not an owner, but manages – not only in respect of the work of previous generations and the fight for food, but also in respect of future generations. Responsibility for land management is an important element of our common objective of sustainable development. It is of general importance that the soil – the use – be operated and maintained in the claim. Therefore, the purchase and sale of agricultural property must not be like any other trade. You don't pay to own, you pay to manage. The Left and I are more concerned about, are the state's right of pre-emption, which in too many cases tends to prevent young people from buying a small farm on which they want to live and operate alongside other jobs. However, the right of pre-emption may sometimes be necessary, such as: when natural arrondance should take place, inter alia. to make neighboring use viable. With the changes we have had in agriculture in recent years, depopulation, the closure of schools and other service institutions are a threat to the agricultural industry and our housing pattern. Therefore, the State’s pre-emptive right should be administered much more liberally than today, in order to enable more people to establish themselves with small-scale families they want to operate. It is important for agriculture in the long term and for rural settlements that one looks more closely at the management of the concessional uses than at the concessional limits, on which the interpellant is engaged. Soil protection and operational requirements are important, not area size and price. The left looks forward to the treatment of the announced gross domestic product message, which may already be coming to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1638	Initially, I agree with Left's speeches that owning and managing land is actually something other than owning another kind of property. That has to be the starting point. Especially if you want to change the rules, you have to be aware of the reasons why you want to change them – and I guess the Right has a slightly different reason and a slightly different goal than the SV has. If higher prices and more leisure properties are the way to obtain capital into agriculture, SV does not agree that this should be the main objective of changing the rules. But it's important to look at the rules, so that one doesn't prevent settlement. In fact, there is a certain desire to live among some young people who can now be hindered by, among other things. the provisions of the law of no partiality, perhaps more than those of the law of concession. This is a difficult issue, because, among other things, the law of nobility. contain provisions to ensure that girls, too, have the right to vote. And they're the ones who fear that if you do something about this, you can rock it. That's an important consideration to take. With regard to the state's right of pre-emption, I believe that if someone wants to buy, settle and drive, I think the state should keep its hands off the barrel. But the goal must be to keep seagoing units and actually to live and operate. If you have a concession limit at e.g. 5 Decors, then there will be lying debris very much that could have been left out by other regulations or used as extra land by other users who need it, so it's a very poor solution. It is also important that there is room for local discretion when it comes to these issues, but it is important to place a dwelling on the good it is to own or buy an agricultural property. Municipal pre-purchasing rights or at least an opportunity for municipalities to exercise the right of pre-purchasing, which is to be discussed later today, we are very positive about this. However, we want such a right of pre-emption to be the primary objective of securing maritime units. Like the other batches, we want to get back to this when we're dealing with the paperback. I see that there are some people who are impatient about this, but we believe that this issue is far too extensive for a simple proposal in an inter-pelling debate to make a dramatic change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1653	The regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is up. The President will propose that this morning's meeting be extended until today's map has been completed. – It is considered biphasic.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1656	It was the last two posts that made me want to make a few comments. When the representative of the Left and the SV say jointly that soil is not an owner, but something an administrator, it is quite alarming. What thoughts and definitions you put in managing if you don't see that it's completely inextricably linked to private property rights is almost impossible for me to understand. All experience shows that management without ownership is bad governance. It is an administration that leads to unwanted results. It is an administration that has been tried on both a large and a small scale around the world. Private property and management are inextricably linked and must not be attempted in any other way. The state should keep its fingers off the barrel if people want to settle and operate, said Karin Andersen of SV, pointing out the ghost of fallen land. The set-aside of land, that is, not keeping the earth in claim, is a matter governed by the law of the earth, and has nothing to do with this matter. If there's anyone who leaves the earth behind, in my opinion, it's completely unheard of. Earth in claim shall be used, but not necessarily by coercion from others. On this occasion, I would like to remind you of the view that the Right has in terms of soil. It is best expressed by the Right Former Leader, who said that cultivated soil is sacred soil. This is how much weight we put in the right to keep the soil protection in claim. We have to take care of that. But what's more important, as we see it, is that if we use our eyes out in the countryside today, we see that there are many properties where the building mass is not kept by the same, especially for small uses and especially in the field. So if you could get people who are willing to settle on previous uses – who have now become so small that they are no longer viable – to use them as homes, people who are willing to keep the building stock at home and take care of the cultural landscape through the care of both the building mass and the soil, then we've come a long way. I hope this will be included in the new message that the Council of State has notified, which we will receive quite soon. Then we'll get some perspectives on this, not just obstacles and restrictions for individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1671	A little closing remark: what was my question, then, was about the government until any legislative change comes, will practise the law in a more liberal way and more in line with what a majority might actually think. We've got an answer to that. The government does not want to make any changes to the practice of the State's pre-purchase right and what has to do with this whole case complex, until one has gone through it in a so-called thorough manner in an agricultural message that I hope will come to the autumn, and which I hope the Council of State can confirm that it will not be postponed. I really must say that I have little faith in this 'compulsory' attitude of the people. If there's something we don't need in the countryside, it's just this, in my opinion. With regard to the concession laws and everything in this regard, there is another side to this that may have been little affected, but which I hope will be investigated in this agricultural message, because there are many figures in the air that confuse society's costs locally in all the municipalities of the country, what it costs regionally in all the county offices, and what it costs centrally to have this bureaucracy around what it has to do with the concession laws. The representative, Mr. Auchan, referred to a chronicle I had in a newspaper where I pointed out the zeal of bureaucracy for the letter of the law. He didn't take the rest of the sentence, but it said that I wish bureaucrats in general had a similar commitment for the benefit of the citizens. Because here there's really a lot of sand in the machinery compared to voluntary agreements. And as I said in my post, in 40 pst. of the contracts concluded for the purchase and sale in which public pre-purchase is involved, the parties in fact agree to put a line over it. But I'm recording that the Council of State is not willing to make changes. This is because he is not interested in another policy in this area – it has to be read this way – and he wants to use what is the law's framework in this area. I had really hoped that we would at least get a clue that there was light in the tunnel for the buildings as to a greater degree of voluntary purchase and sale of private properties. But perhaps the Council of State in its concluding round could confirm or cancel if the agricultural notification really comes to the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1682	I note that some representatives today have said that one should not wait for Stortingen to be treated. For me, it is natural to be able to handle this in the way that I have expressed in my first post. I must also say that the expression used by the representative Hernæs today is spectacular – that the Right’s view is that ‘the cultivated earth is holy earth’. I just want to remind you that then the practice should then be related to a Document No. 8-proposal for the use of 650 deer crops in the Stavanger area for other purposes. It is a little important that, from time to time, one makes the principles clear through the decisions that one also hides in relation to the Storting. Then I have to say that I have not said that I will not change, but I have said that I will see this in context. And if someone thinks that e.g. the pre-purchase court institute is what has depopulated the towns, it is completely wrong. There were 83 things in 1997. Of them, half were the ones who – one might say – repented, so it was then about again. half of 83. If you think that's what has taken care of the depopulation of Building Norway, it's wrong. But what I want to ask is whether this is important in order to achieve other pieces of what are agricultural policy objectives, among other things. that one should have a holding that yields income, which I have also had the impression that it has been part of the objective of the majority of the population in the agricultural policy, and assess the changes that come up against the other objectives that the Storting has also set, whether this is compatible. So I just want to end by saying that I have the political view that owning obligations. If one goes to the East-Agder state, which is pretty close to the place where the interpellant comes from, it's clear that it's a problem that it's actually that about half of the earth today is driven by people other than those who own it. And if you think that this is the pattern of ownership that is the most beneficial in the future, I'm not sure that management is great compared to those who are also responsible for ownership. Around these points, I will also make some adjustments to promote this communication in relation to – I can say – agricultural policy instruments and what an opportunity to get an impact on here in the Grand Duchy also in terms of allowing agriculture to be a viable industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1695	As a result, the interpellation debate is over. [[See page 2269]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1703	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1710	During the debate on case No. 1 there is a total of eleven proposals put forward. It's: the proposals No 1-4, by Aud Gaundal, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, No. 5 and 6, by Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 7-11, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The Socialist Left Party's proposals are first voted on, then on the proposals of the Progressive Party and the Right, then on the proposals of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, and finally on the vote. The proposals of the Socialist Left Party are addressed to voting. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for a low-income housing scheme.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The lowest grant rate in the Husbank grant scheme is increased from 30 p.m. up to 40 pst.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for a State co-guarantee scheme for loans for start-up.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: « The entry for loans and grants in the State budget chapter. 581 item 75 is divided in such a way as to show the amount of loans and the amount of grants to be used.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to assume that at least 3000 more non-profit rental properties per year must be built. year of construction.The rate of the scheme’s contribution is set at a maximum of 60 pst.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1761	Proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Progress Party and the Right are taken up for voting. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide an assessment of a simplification of tax rules for the rental of part of the owner-occupied dwelling, up to a maximum of 50 pst. of the area can be rented free of tax.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to conduct a restructuring of the Husbank’s loan scheme and to start-up loans to initial start-ups in accordance with the following principle. Loans are granted through ordinary banking through risk- and cost-sharing contracts for both first-priority and establishment.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1782	The proposals of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left are addressed to voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to provide an overview of the country’s plots to be used or re-regulated for residential purposes and to submit proposals for the use of the country’s land for student and non-profit rental dwellings.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a ‘straight-bo regime’ for the homeless and people with little residence, inter alia. in the establishment of a publicly supported Book Collective.One or more shall be reserved for women. The main responsibility should lie in the municipalities and the State should contribute, inter alia::– housing policy instruments,– existing State building stock and– State land.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the establishment loan scheme in order to ensure a more similar practice than is the case today’.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a national public rental housing programme with a corresponding financial instrument. The scheme shall be based on close cooperation between the State, the municipalities and the housing cooperative.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1856	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left will vote against this. – There seems to be agreement on that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1898	During the debate, the interpellant, Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party. In the course of the debate, the Interpellant made the proposal for a transfer proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government carry out the task of drawing up a new action plan to prevent unwanted pregnancy and abortion and, in this respect, focus on factual and neutral information in line with the intentions of the law.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It is considered biphasic. On the recommendation of the Socialist Left, the President will propose voting on case No. 5 before case No. 4th@item: inlistbox The reason lies, as the President sees it, in a request for subsidiary voting by the SV. – It is considered biphasic.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1913	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Ågot Valle, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 18 February 1999: ‘The decision requests the Government to submit proposals giving the person granted the right of access under the Transparency Act the right to require the mutilation/ erasure of incorrect or unlawful information. The person who has been granted access, where incorrect or unlawful information has been obtained, may, under certain conditions, authorise the archiving of material for historical reasons.’;» The proposal by the Socialist Left was not supported by 6 votes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1924	The proposal of the representative of Vidar Bjørnstad, on behalf of the Workers' Party, is hereby put to the vote: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals to enable the person granted transparency under the Transparency Act to require the maculation/ erasure of incorrect or unlawful information.’ Jan Simonsen – explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1932	The Progress Party, together with the Right, voted against the new Act on the transparency of police archives, but now this law has been passed, and then it is natural to decide on the present proposal. The Party considers that, for privacy reasons, it would be appropriate to be able to require the mutilation of incorrect or unlawful information, in particular since this is no longer required by the surveillance police. The alternative is to send this information to the National Archives. I would therefore recommend that the members of the Progress Party vote in favour of this proposal, and I assume that the same will apply to the Right Members.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1937	It's nod from the representative Hernæs – and that means he doesn't have to give any further explanation than that Mr. Simonsen has given. Sir. Marthinsen – explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1942	For the sake of history and history in the future, we wanted the document to record the contents of it as incorrect. However, when we do not get this as proposed, I would ask the representatives of the central parties to vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1947	This should satisfy the need for explanations of vote, and we can then proceed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1960	A vote will be taken on the proposal by the representative, Mr L. Stang, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of 18 February 1999 of the Odel Stingen: ‘The decision requests the Government to propose amendments to the rules of the Administrative Act on the rejection of appeals, so that the grounds for rejection are clarified and clarified in order to avoid the rejection of complaints on a lack of basis.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1976	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Terje Knudsen, on behalf of the Party of Progress and on the Right, submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 23 February 1999: ‘The ruling asks the Government to assess the consequences of removing the activity requirement of the Participant Act. [[§ 6]] The majority asks the Government to provide such an impact assessment to the Storting in an appropriate manner.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e1992	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Terje Knudsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of 23 February 1999 of the Odel Stingen: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a separate case to the Stortinget with a view to abolishing the Participant Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e2005	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e2012	The proposal was then rejected by 78 votes to 24.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e2018	During the debate, Mr Hedstrøm has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal is distributed in the Chamber and reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose amendments to the concession law in order to raise the lower concession limit to 50 dekar.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-04.ana.ud505e2038	There is no record. The President will draw attention to the fact that the meeting of Odelsting will be held at 1 p.m. 6:00 p.m. The creation meeting will be set now.
