ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-18.ana.ud1564e23	The representatives Grete Knudsen, Steinar Bastesen, Haakon Blankenborg, Day Danielsen, Brother Yngve Rahm, Gunn Karin Gjul and Siri Frost Sterri, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative of Steinar Bastesen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-18.ana.ud1564e50	I have the honour to make a proposal that, in the case of the establishment of asylum-seekers, there should be political treatment in each local government before the establishment takes place, and that UDI should have an obligation to provide information to the municipalities before that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-18.ana.ud1564e55	The representative of Vidar Kleppe will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-18.ana.ud1564e58	On behalf of the biggest representatives of Lodve Solholm, Torbjørn Andersen and myself, I have the great honour and pleasure to promote a private proposal aimed at winding up the county council as a self-government level, and that the county election in 1999 is cancelled.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-18.ana.ud1564e63	The proposals put forward will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-18.ana.ud1564e73	The motive behind our NATO membership is this: ‘...a burning desire to help save the world for the fears we all know we had to expect that a new war would lead to, not just our country, but all over the world.’ The opinion belongs to former Minister of Foreign Affairs Halvard Lange. The date is March 29, 1949. The place is this hall. The reason is Storting's agreement to ratify the Atlantic Pact between the United States, Canada and Western European countries. That Norway, in Washington on 4 April 1949, signed the Atlantic Treaty with these allied countries, was nothing of course 50 years ago. Today, there is a greater political consensus about our NATO membership than ever. New countries have joined the NATO community. Last week, Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary became members of the alliance. This was a new milestone in Europe's history. In these days, one of the major NATO exercises in Norway has been completed by ‘Battle Griffin’. At the same time, at the other end of Europe, NATO Member States are ready to support the political efforts to achieve lasting peace in Kosovo. These are two sides of the same peace-building defence and value community that NATO has evolved into. NATO has been a carrier of Norwegian foreign, security and defence policy for half a century. The alliance has linked our country to committed European and transatlantic cooperation, based on solidarity and community. NATO's collective defence obligation has given us assurance of allied support for our security. Through NATO, and with the assistance of our allies, we have built a credible defense. It has provided Norway with security for a period of tension in Europe. Membership of the Alliance has given Norway co-responsibility for, and influence over, the major lines of European security. NATO has played a key role in shaping the emerging new Europe, after a century of conflict, wars and totalitarian ideology. Just ten years ago, it was unmistakable that we Europeans should be able to look forward to a new century of hope and expectation of peace and prosperity across a whole continent, without artificial dividing lines. But by ensuring peace and stable conditions for growth and prosperity in the West, NATO helped to break down the Berlin Wall and spread values such as freedom, democracy and human rights also to the countries of the East. NATO has combined military deterrence capability with political will to dialogue across the dividing lines. As one of the so-called three wise men, at the end of the 1950s, half-vard Lange was at the heart of formulating this two-sided approach, in which political cooperation was given increased weight. At the end of the 1960s, this line was to be expressed in the Harmel report. The result is that we now see a Europe that cooperates on the basis of common values and goals. At the same time, we must be realistic and not have too many illusions. As we have experienced through history, most recently in the former Yugoslavia, hatred and intolerance will always have the potential for conflict, including on our continent. We therefore have a moral and political responsibility to maintain a solid preparedness for abuse and humanitarian crises – national, regional and global. Unfortunately, freedom and peace cannot be taken for granted as a permanent condition. We must therefore continue our work of peace on a broad front. NATO must remain a central instrument in this work. Kosovo is currently the most combustible example of our continuing to face threats to peace and security in Europe, although these have changed since the end of the Cold War. Nationalism and historical contradictions, ethnic and religious conflicts are also creating new challenges today. The alliance has shown great ability to adapt to the new situation. In Bosnia, NATO has taken effective action to end the conflict, in close cooperation with new partner countries. In Kosovo, NATO can face new peace tasks in a short time. The management of these will be able to shape the alliance's activities for a long time in the future. Let me make it clear: the transition that NATO has made since the end of the Cold War has strengthened the alliance. The new crisis management and partner countries’ activities have given NATO a broader role in European peace and security. The enlargement process and partner cooperation also mean that the values on which the Atlantic Pact is based – democracy, human rights and the rule of law – are strengthened throughout the Euro-Atlantic region. For Norway, it is vital for our own security and co-responsibility that NATO remains a central and vital body for peace and stability in our part of the world. In the preparations for the Washington Summit, therefore, the Government attaches great importance to actively contributing to continued efforts to transform NATO. At the same time, the government will work to preserve and build on the special qualities of cooperation – solidarity between Member States and common integrated defence. We consider it essential to maintain political and military cooperation in the alliance. The framework for the NATO Summit in Washington on 23 and 25 April will be the anniversary, but also the current tasks of the Alliance in the Balkans. The heads of state and government of NATO countries will indicate that 50 years have passed since the signing of the North Atlantic Treaty and the establishment of the Atlantic Alliance. NATO's contribution to stability and peace in the North Atlantic region will be a key message. Similarly, the importance of the alliance for our own security will constitute the framework for the government’s marking of the NATO anniversary here in Norway. At the same time, the summit will adopt a declaration that will target the tasks of the Alliance at the turn of the century. The Washington Summit will be the first to take place in Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary. The NATO security guarantee thus includes a further 60 million people. Norway looks forward to valuable cooperation in NATO with these three countries. It is a pleasure to see that these countries can once again make valuable contributions to the European community of values. The summit will confirm that NATO's door remains open to additional members. At the same time, it will seek to reinvigorate NATO's ever-increasing cooperation with Russia, Ukraine and the other partner countries. A meeting of the NATO-Russia Council is planned, and we hope that President Yeltsin or Prime Minister Primakov will take part in this. Summits shall also be held in the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council and the NATO-Ukraine Commission. In the rest of this presentation, I would like to focus on some of the issues to which the Norwegian side has given particular attention in preparing for the summit: the strategic concept, the enlargement process, cooperation with Russia and other partner countries, the development of the European security and defence identity and the adaptation of the military capacity of the Alliance to meet new challenges. One of the main preparations for the summit is the adaptation of NATO's strategic concept. This is the NATO ‘principalogram’ and shall confirm the basis of the alliance and define the key tasks of NATO in the years to come. The concept is also the top governance document for military planning in NATO. In close cooperation with the UN, OSCE and key partner countries such as Russia, NATO has recently expanded its political and military engagement to ensure security and stability across Europe. A good example is NATO's efforts to implement the Dayton Agreement in Bosnia. The willingness to contribute militarily to support a possible negotiated solution to the conflict in Kosovo is moving in the same direction. In the context of the strategic concept, it is important for the Government to contribute to ensuring a balance between the continuation of NATO's traditional functions and the new tasks. The basic task of the Alliance must be to ensure the security of the Member States. The obligations laid down in the Atlantic Treaty, political consultations and integrated military cooperation constitute the backbone of the alliance. Transatlantic cooperation and collective defence must continue as core functions. This is of central importance for Norway. Without close cooperation between Europe and North America and a solid military capability to carry out Article 5 tasks, NATO could not solve the new tasks either. At the same time, the Government attaches great importance to the fact that the new tasks related to crisis management, peace operations and cooperation with the partners are central to the updated strategic concept. These tasks also have to be fundamental to the alliance. Conflicts such as those we see in the Balkans affect regional stability, European and international security and the interests of the Member States. They occupy all European countries and the international community. We cannot turn our backs on unrest and abuse, nor in our neighbourhoods in Europe. In the government’s view, Norway must actively support and contribute to strengthening NATO’s role in crisis management. Norway has always been a major contributor to peacekeeping efforts. Over 50,000 Norwegian women and men have participated in UN peace operations. In recent years, we have continued this commitment to NATO-led operations in the Balkans. It is linked to the fact that the UN has given regional organisations an increasing responsibility for the demanding peace operations we have seen in the 1990s. NATO has unique political and military preconditions for this. As we see in the SFOR force in Bosnia, broad participation of soldiers from partner countries, including Russia, is a central element in NATO's peace operations. Such crisis management requires a wide range of civil and military instruments and close cooperation between different international organisations. NATO and the OSCE have extensive tasks in Bosnia and could have even more demanding tasks in Kosovo. Norway has actively contributed to the development of closer cooperation between the OSCE and NATO. The increased emphasis given to international peace operations within NATO also faces increased demands from Norway to contribute to such operations with appropriate forces. We actively participate in Bosnia. We are also ready to do so in Kosovo if agreement is reached on a peace agreement and an international strength to monitor it. Real Norwegian contributions are necessary, both for the specific tasks to be undertaken and for the sake of alliert and international solidarity. Active participation in NATO peace operations is part of the solidarity expected of the Member States. Alliert's involvement in our neighbourhoods cannot be seen isolated from our willingness to contribute from the Norwegian side to the work of solving joint tasks in other parts of Europe. NATO's active peacekeeping commitment provides the defence against significant tasks in the coming years. Prior to the summer, the government will present a major report on Norway’s participation in international operations. The aim is to provide the basis for a more efficient, flexible and appropriate system of Norwegian participation in operations abroad, whether within the framework of NATO, the United Nations or other organisations. The government will work to strengthen the recruitment of our foreign operations and security forces. The increased involvement of NATO in crisis management, and at the latest in the conflict in Kosovo, has led to a discussion on the issue of the international legal basis for the implementation of peace operations. This is a central issue. The government considers it very important that NATO's activities in this area are based on international law. This is in the pact with our country's fundamental commitment to an international order based on legal rules. It is also important to ensure the greatest possible political ups and downs of international involvement in each conflict. We want to see this reflected in the revised strategic concept. The Government assumes that such use of power must be based on international law, either in agreement with the parties, on the right to self-defence under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter or on a mandate from the Security Council under Chapter VII or Chapter VIII of the Charter. A difficult humanitarian situation may be included in the assessment by the Security Council of the existence of a threat to international peace and security that could provide for coercive measures under Chapter VII of the UN Charter. When there is a basis for international law, humanitarian considerations could weigh heavily in deciding whether armed power should actually be used. At the same time, we cannot exclude a situation where it is not possible to obtain an explicit authorisation of use of power from the UN Security Council. In such a case, an assessment shall be made, if necessary, as to whether there may be any grounds for doing so under international law. That was the situation when NATO prepared to use power in Kosovo last autumn. War acts and massive assaults on the civilian population in the area had led to a very serious situation. In Resolution 1199 the Security Council noted that the situation posed a threat to peace and security in the area and referred to Chapter VII. The Security Council required immediate armistice and warned that further action would be assessed if the requirements of the Council Resolutions were not met. This was a strong warning from the Council that military action could become effective. On the basis of Resolution 1199, the Secretary-General's report of 6 October last year on the non-compliance with the resolution and the opinion of the President of the Security Council on the same day, we came after an overall assessment, with the anchor of international law, that the necessary legitimation of the use of power was available. A similar approach was adopted in the other Allied countries. There was broad support in the bodies of the Storting to such an attitude. The situation in Kosovo is still tense. There are clear breaches of the agreements concluded last October. The number of refugees is increasing. We cannot rule out the collapse of the Rambouillet negotiations. The Kosovo Albanians have agreed to sign this agreement, but the Serbs do not. In such a situation, it may again be relevant for NATO to use power on the same basis as it existed last autumn. The international risk picture is becoming increasingly complex. Internal and regional conflicts originating from national, ethnic or religious contradictions lead to instability, as we see it in the Balkans. Social unrest, humanitarian distress and refugee flows in Europe’s neighbourhoods, North Africa, the Middle East and the Caucasus, occupy not least the southern European NATO countries. European security and welfare are also affected by challenges of a more global nature, such as the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and international terrorism. NATO must be able to deal with crises that could have consequences for common security interests. However, no member country wants to make NATO a global organisation. The government's position is that NATO's focus must remain in the Euro-Atlantic field. We do not see any extension of NATO's geographical area of responsibility beyond the Member States. At the same time, the new risk picture will help to ensure that security in Europe could be affected by greater conflicts. It could affect NATO's role. Dissemination of weapons of mass destruction, and means of delivery for the launching of such weapons, represent a significant challenge for the world community. We must take the consequences of this risk of proliferation and the possibilities for non-governmental actors to use weapons of mass destruction. That is why we need to strengthen cooperation and exchange of information within NATO in this area. So through NATO, we can support the work done in other international forums. An important objective of the Government is to promote global nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. Norway will actively work for further reductions in nuclear arsenals. We are engaged in disarmament work in various forums – in the UN, in the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva, through the Non-Proliferation Agreement, etc. In this context, I would like to mention that the Government decided on 12 March to request the consent of the Storting to ratify the probation agreement. I hope that the Storting will be able to give its consent to ratification as soon as possible. In the case of NATO, we have argued from the Norwegian side that the nuclear-related sections of the strategic concept need to be assessed and updated, like the other parts of the concept. The Government further believes that in the follow-up to the summit there is a need for a broad review of NATO's work on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. The nuclear strengths of NATO have been significantly reduced in recent years. The level of preparedness of the remaining weapons has been significantly reduced. These conditions are reflected in NATO's planning. The government is in favour of confirming this positive development in the strategic concept. It has to be stated that we want to continue the efforts for disarmament. We will also work to make it clear that the possibility of using nuclear weapons is extremely distant. We have taken these points of view up with allied countries, in line with the weight we put on nuclear disarmament. At the same time, the discussion has shown that there is no basis for addressing changes in the NATO Nuclear Doctrine in the context of the update of the strategic concept. There is no direct military threat to NATO countries today. However, the alliance should retain the ability to build forces over time in the event of a threat. The Government attaches great importance to NATO's defence planning continuing to reflect that the alliance must be capable of deterring, and, if necessary, defending, allies against any form of aggression. This will continue to be based on the principle of collective solidarity, as well as effective integrated military cooperation, including joint activities and joint financing. There is currently a broad debate in all NATO Member States on how to adapt defence and military forces to the new risks and tasks. Extensive conversions have been carried out or are under investigation in most NATO countries. The United States presented an ambitious proposal for a programme for the further development of allied military forces in the autumn, making them far more strategically mobile, efficient, durable and capable of providing self-protection. The ‘Defence Capabilities Initiative’ is called this proposal and it shall contribute to strengthening NATO’s capacity for effective crisis management based on integrated multinational units. The US initiative raises important issues related to the future arrangement of NATO defence cooperation. This also applies to our own defence, which is primarily based on the duty of protection, mobilisation and support from civil society, and which is largely based on the protection of their own territory. It is the Government’s view that there is a need for a new review of defence policy with a focus on defence tasks and level of ambition. The review must be based on the leadership of the NATO Summit that I have outlined, including: the relationship between the traditional core tasks and NATO participation in international peace operations. It must also be based on developments in our neighbourhoods and on the main principles of the defence concept it has been widely agreed on in Norway. Important issues in the review must be the response capabilities we need to address different parts of the defence, how we can practice the implementation of the universal protection obligation and other key elements of our defence concept. In this context, rapid technological developments and rising costs of defence equipment will be important. The review may result in changes in the quantity-quality ratio and a greater differentiation of our strengths. The aim will be to ensure that defence can meet the security policy challenges as they arise now and in the years to come. On this basis, I will initiate a defence policy investigation through a high-speed selection of broad political participation, which will provide general and principal advice prior to the preparation of the forthcoming long-term defence notification. I assume that the selection setting will also be made subject to assessment and discussion in this room. It will be important to see Norwegian defence in the context of the development of NATO military cooperation. A credible and effective defence of the Norwegian region in an alliance context will continue to be the most important task. But because, fortunately, war in our area is appearing as very unlikely today, we need to assess whether this task can be better carried out in a way that ensures a stronger integration of Norwegian defence into allied cooperation. Such developments could also link allied forces more directly to the defence in Norway if we again experienced increased tension. At the same time, we want to strengthen our efforts for peace and stability in cooperation with our new allies and new partner countries. Cooperation with the other Nordic countries in peace operations will also be central. NATO's new command structure shall be ready for the Washington Summit. It will mean that Norway is closer to the other allies on the continent and that we are more closely associated than today with the other countries of northern Europe. In the work on the new command structure, it has been important for the Government to ensure that the new regional command will be able to carry out all the tasks currently in AFNORTHWEST, not least with regard to the monitoring of the northern regions and the exercise of joint operations. Norway will maintain a sub-regional joint NATO headquarters at Jåttå, similar to what we have today. It will be important to ensure that our national interests linked to the Jåttå headquarters are best safeguarded in the new structure as well. This continues to include the ability to receive allied reinforcements and the conduct of military exercises and training in our area, as well as the ability to uphold sovereignty and territorial control. Multinational participation in the NATO headquarters in Norway is important to ensure that our allies are aware of the challenges in our part of Europe. The government supports the active NATO extension process. Enlargement is an expression of NATO's adaptation to a new security policy landscape. Through the admission of new Member States, NATO will contribute to further enhanced security and defence policy cooperation in Europe. The Government attaches great importance to NATO being open to new members. The summit must give a clear signal that new invitations to membership will arrive at a later date. From the Norwegian side, we have proposed that the enlargement process be reviewed at the next alliance summit. At the same time, in the government's view, it is important that the summit develops and strengthens cooperation, both with the candidate countries and with the other partner countries. In line with this, we in Norway have agreed that the summit will launch a comprehensive action package for the candidate country group in order to prepare them as best possible for subsequent invitations to NATO membership. We have underlined that the package of measures will require resources. NATO and the Member States must be ready to meet this challenge. We must also be willing to do this from the Norwegian side. The measures launched in Washington will not involve automatic admission of new Member States. New invitations will be based on a broad political assessment and consensus in the alliance. The government has actively supported Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania’s desire for membership – both through bilateral and multilateral cooperation programmes and in the discussions within NATO. We have a close dialogue with the Baltic countries on NATO enlargement and preparations for the summit. The confirmation of NATO’s open door, the extension and strengthening of its partner cooperation should, in the Government’s view, go hand in hand with the further development of NATO’s cooperation with Russia. The development of Russia is crucial to the stability of our continent. For the Government, it is an overall objective to contribute to the active and constructive involvement of Russia across the whole spectrum of Euro-Atlantic cooperation. The 1997 NATO-Russia Basic Act and the establishment of the NATO-Russia Council were a breakthrough in this context. I am pleased that cooperation with Russia is beginning to bear fruit. Developing an atmosphere of mutual trust is thus important. The consultation mechanism constitutes the main pillars of cooperation. The dialogue includes weapons of mass destruction, defence-related environmental protection, infrastructure and arms control. The Council has also been an effective means of contacting the Kosovo crisis. We are faced with different assessments at times. But it does not weaken the importance of the NATO-Russia Council as a security policy cooperation instrument. Practical cooperation is also well under way. However, we could have wished for faster progress. It assumes exposure and follow-up on both sides. The crisis in Russia affects the capacity for concrete follow-up by the Russian side. We want the Washington Summit to give fresh impetus and renewed strength to the relationship between Russia and NATO. Cooperation with Russia is an essential part of the new NATO. It has been well founded in recent years – not least in Bosnia, where Russian soldiers operate side by side with NATO forces. We must build on this and work to actively involve Russia in any peace operation in Kosovo. NATO-Russia cooperation has great potential. We have to look at a long-term perspective. It's the government's view that we must, on the ally's side, stick to our high ambitions. At the same time, we need to look at new ways of engaging Russia in political and practical cooperation. NATO also concluded a special cooperation relationship with Ukraine in 1997. NATO-Ukraine cooperation reflects Ukraine’s important role in stability and security in Europe. These include: focussed on defence reform, peacekeeping efforts and defence-related environmental issues. We want to strengthen relations with Ukraine. The government has worked actively to make cooperation with partner countries a fundamental task for the new NATO. Today, the Alliance has close political and military cooperation with 25 countries. The Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council is the central forum for consultations with partner countries and, at the same time, the overall governing body for military cooperation in the framework of the Partnership for Peace. For many partner countries, participation in the Peace Partnership is important in qualifying for NATO membership. Those who have not declared a wish for membership, such as Sweden and Finland, in the Partnership for Peace, provide room for close cooperation with NATO in a number of areas. This is important. We must, as far as possible, keep every opportunity for political and military cooperation with NATO open to countries that are interested in close cooperation, but for various reasons do not want membership. The Washington Summit will adopt a further strengthening of the Partnership for Peace. Partner countries will have increased influence in the planning and decision-making processes of NATO-led peace operations with partner participation. Defence planning for partner countries will be more closely aligned with NATO’s own. The practical military cooperation shall also be further enhanced. Europe and North America must meet the new safety challenges together. It applies in the Balkans, and it will apply in other situations. The Atlantic Alliance has joined the European and North American allies in a community as important today as it was when the Atlantic Pact was signed. At the same time, European countries must gradually assume greater responsibility for security in Europe. There has been a trend in this direction in recent years, under the key European Security and Defence Identity (ESDI). This is an expression of European aspirations and a response to the desire of the United States for a better burden-sharing between European and North American allies. The work on the ESDI is ongoing in NATO, in the Western Union and in the EU. Norway has actively supported the work with the ESDI. We have stressed the need to develop the European security and defence identity within the framework of transatlantic security policy cooperation and contribute to strengthening it. The British-French Declaration of St. Malo in December has created a new basis for the work on increased European security responsibilities and crisis management capabilities. These initiatives are followed up in the EU and in the Western European Union. The summit could give new impetus to the ESDI. Strengthening the role of the EU in this area will also mean closer coordination between EU countries in the area of security policy. It is likely that there will be a direct relationship of cooperation in the field of security between the EU and NATO. This may affect the decision-making process in NATO, and consequently Norwegian interests as well. The debate we have now had on the European crisis management capability may conclude that the Western European Union is to be closed down and fully or partially introduced into the EU. It could change the basis of the arrangements established in the Western Union, and partly in NATO, with regard to our involvement in decision-making processes and the implementation of crisis management under the auspices of the European countries. We have therefore stressed that the rights of Norway and other allied countries in the same situation today need to be maintained if institutional changes are to be made. On the part of the EU countries, there is a broad understanding that this is necessary. As demonstrated by the Minister for Foreign Affairs' European Statement in January, this can be done in different ways. From the Norwegian side, we will, among other things, could be based on the consultation arrangements we already have with the European Union. I myself discussed these issues during my talks in Bonn and Brussels in January this year. The government will actively monitor these issues in contact with our allies. The government will place great emphasis on Norwegian involvement in the further development of the European security and defence identity, both within NATO and in other contexts. We will place great emphasis on maintaining our ability to play an active role in and contribute to the development of European crisis management capabilities. The Washington Summit must mark NATO's fundamental contribution to peace and security in the North Atlantic region for 50 years. The most important thing about this milestone, however, is to look ahead. The summit has to draw up the guidelines for the NATO we want into the next century. The government focuses on the following issues in the design of the future NATO: 1st@item: inlistbox NATO must maintain its vitality and remain the central tool for security and stability in Europe. This will require continued migration so that the alliance can handle the new tasks effectively.2. The basis for this transition must be the continuation of the core tasks of collective defence, transatlantic solidarity and the alliance as the central consultation forum for the security of the Member States.3. At the same time, it is necessary to strike a balance between this Treaty-based core of cooperation and the new fundamental tasks related to crisis management and partner cooperation that today characterise NATO's activities both politically and militarily.4. The overall objective of NATO's migration process must be to contribute to the construction of a European security system, characterised by security in cooperation and lasting cooperation between all countries in the Euro-Atlantic region. Partnership activities, cooperation with Russia and the enlargement process must be exploited as a whole as NATO's means of achieving this objective, which is of great importance to our own security.5. NATO's door must remain open. Further enlargement must help to strengthen European security and not create new dividing lines. Cooperation with partner countries needs to be further developed and become a key task for the new NATO. Norway will seek to involve the Nordic and Baltic countries and Russia in this cooperation as closely as possible.6. NATO must have high ambitions for cooperation with Russia, based on common interests, reciprocity and transparency and constructive engagement of all parties.7. NATO should be given a fundamental new task and role related to conflict resolution and peacekeeping in the Euro-Atlantic region. This must have a clear basis in international law and in the principles of the UN Charter.8. The development of new NATO tasks, including: contributing to international peace operations and the current crisis pattern and the requirements it imposes call for a review of our defence policy. As I said, the government will present a major communication before the summer on international operations and otherwise take the initiative in a defence policy investigation through a fast-working selection of broad political participation. It shall provide general and principle advice prior to the preparation of the forthcoming long-term defence notice.9 NATO must continue its efforts to contribute to disarmament, including in the case of nuclear weapons, and to counter proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and associated means of delivery.10. The development towards greater European responsibility and capacity for crisis management is important. It must be supported in a way that respects the cohesion between Europe and North America and the interests of allies. Europe and European security are undergoing transformation. The foundation is now laid for the role and tasks of NATO at the start of a new century. Joint, solidarity efforts are still necessary to ensure stability and peace in our part of the world. Membership of NATO has been a supporter of Norwegian foreign and security policy since 1949 for 50 years. The government's work on NATO's summit and the new NATO will be based on the continuation of this line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-18.ana.ud1564e248	The President will propose that the Prime Minister’s statement on issues related to the NATO Summit in Washington on 23 and 25 April 1999 be discussed at a later meeting. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-18.ana.ud1564e257	There is no record.
