ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e103	Honourable co-representatives! Former P.A. Osmund Faremo is dead, 77 years old. Osmund Faremo's life was marked by the struggle against injustice and for freedom and democracy. Faremo was the representative of the Workers' Party in East-Agder for 20 years, from 1965 to 1985. Before that time, he often met as an alternate. Already on April 9, 1940, 19 - year - old Osmund Faremo joined in the fight against the Germans. After the first games he joined Milorg Southland. On February 5, 1943, he was arrested by the Gestapo. After torture and imprisonment at Grini, Faremo, along with 70 other resistance groups, was sent to concentration camps in Germany and Austria. He belonged to the so-called Nacht und Nebel prisoners, those who, according to Gestapo's opinion, were not to survive. But in an amazing way, Osmund Faremo survived. With the «White buses» he was first transported to Denmark and Sweden, and then in May 1945 to return home to Byglandsfjord. He was physically reduced, but mentally he was strengthened in his fight for justice and solidarity. In the book “Thank You for Life, Emil, ” published in 1987, Faremo wrote about his time as a condemned prisoner and about the social effort he felt committed to, which he thanked for surviving. This became the driving force in all his political work, in the municipal government and in the Stortinget. The detention in German captivity marked Osmund Faremo as both a human and a politician. He became an internationalist, a defence friend and a humanist, and was never in doubt that the EU was an important project to create peaceful coexistence in Europe. As the long-standing Vice-President of the Interparliamentary Union, Faremo actively used his position to promote human rights issues. In the concentration camps, Faremo links that resulted in lifelong friendships. In particular, he made many friends from Yugoslavia. For 12 years he was an ongoing and capable president of the Norwegian-Yugoslav relationship. Osmund Faremo's lifelong efforts against Nazism, Nynazism and racism made him worthy of thanks and homage. Faremo held the King's medal of merit in gold, the Yugoslav Flag Order with a star and the former GDR medal of honour for fighting against fascism. In Stortinget, Faremo received many tasks, including: he joined the Municipal and Environmental Protection Committee, the Administrative Committee and the Defence Committee. But regardless of the committee position, he used his position as a staging representative to communicate contact between his district and central authorities. He appeared to be the spokesperson of the countryside. Faremo gave a calm security, although he could also be both sharp and striped. Certainly it is at least that he was never afraid to say what he meant, whether it was tactically wise or not. He hated foreplay and double games. This trait brought him both friends and opponents, but it always made him respectable. We, who have had Osmund Faremo as a colleague, also know his burning commitment to the new-surgery, an engagement that led to the Løvebakken Goallag being founded in 1974. For a long time he was also a central spokesman for press support for district newspapers, especially for new Norwegian newspapers. We remember Osmund Faremo in deep respect and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e141	The representative of Thorbjørn Jagland, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate of the Hedmark County, Magnhild Offseth Olrud, has taken the seat. From the Group of the Progressive Alliance, a request for welfare leave has been submitted to the representative of Kenneth Svendsen as of Tuesday 27 April and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Vara representative, Hanne Dyveke Sweets Hagen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e171	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e176	I suggest Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e181	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The President will propose that the item on the supplementary agenda be dealt with as the first item at the evening meeting, which will begin at noon. 18.00 – and considers this to be adopted. In addition, the President will propose that it should consider the draft constitutions, i.e.: Case No 1-6 on the ordinary agenda, shall not be voted on until after the date of referral. 1 and 2, then after case No. 3, so after case no. 4, and finally after case No. 5 and 6 in total. The remaining cases, case No. 7-11, proposed vote on at the end of the meeting. No objections have been raised against it – and it is deemed to have been adopted. Case No. 1 will propose that the vote be taken by roll call. The remaining voting rights in the Constitutional Cases will be proposed by means of the voting apparatus – only so that the representatives are aware of this and the lots are arranged in such a way that the defaults are valid for those who are not present in the Chamber. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Court of Justice. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e210	Constitutional proposals Nos. 2 and 3 of Document No 12 for 1995-96 concerns changes to the electoral system, proposals that have been made in the past but rejected. The main objectives of the proposals are to increase the number of balancing mandates from today 8 to 14, 16, 18 or 20 respectively, to reduce the barrier limit for obtaining balancing mandates from 4 pst. to 3 pst. and change today's modified odd number method to a clean odd number method in the distribution of the balancing mandates between the counties. Furthermore, amendments to the Basic Law are proposed to ensure that all counties, including equalisation mandates, have a fixed number of representatives and that lots reaching a specified barrier limit should be guaranteed proportional representation of the Storting. All the draft constitutions are either justified by the rapporteurs' wish to correct or improve the electoral system of today's weaknesses. Without going into any previous arrangements after 1814, I would just like to briefly remind you that we have had a proportional electoral arrangement since 1919. The main changes since then are the abolition of the so-called peasant paragraph of 1952 and the introduction of the system of equalization mandates from 1989 onwards. Although there are many opinions about an electoral system, it has at least been agreed in recent years that there should be a reasonable relationship between the formation of a party in elections and the representation it achieves in the Stortinget. The political will of the electorate shall be expressed through the composition of the Grand Duchy. It also appears to be a coherent view that the electoral system should contribute to the establishment of a governance majority, that the particular geographical and economic conditions of our country should ensure that regional policy considerations are given priority in the design of the electoral system. There may, of course, be shared views on what a completely fair electoral system involves. Is it, for example, fair if one is to assume a full mathematical distribution of the mandates? Is it fair if this results in a disproportionately strong position for small lots, with minimal constancy from the voters, by acting as tilting parties in the Stortinget? We ask the voters, we'll probably get a lot of answers as to what a fair electoral system actually means. But what I feel confident about is that the voters will primarily prefer an electoral system that channel the main flow of elections into the national Parliament and that will provide the basis for governments with solid foundations in the national Parliament and thus a stable political situation throughout the electoral period. If this is the case right in this period, of course, it can be discussed. However, I leave this question. As you can see from Innst. S. No 116 from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, the establishment of the Electoral Commission is now working on proposals for reform of electoral law. The committee, under the direction of Mr Sigbjørn Johnsen, will present its conclusion towards the end of 2000. I therefore do not want to spend time arguing against all the amendments tabled by the rapporteurs. There appears to be a broad consensus that it would therefore now be most appropriate to await the results of the work of the Electoral Commission before any changes to the electoral system are adopted by the Stortinge. I would therefore recommend that the Storting should reject all the minority proposals available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e238	Proposals for constitutional changes must be made with caution, which is not least ensured by the procedure to be followed in this type of case. Case No. 1 and 2 on today's maps should be seen in a certain context, since they largely affect the same subject-matter, namely to give smaller lots a better chance of ensuring the best possible use of cast votes. These proposals are aimed at increasing the number of balancing mandates and lowering the barrier limit to 3 pst. by votes cast. I can say that I agree with the majority's reference to the fact that a fully fair electoral system is difficult to achieve. However, this does not prevent the current electoral law from being further elaborated in view of further improvements. When promoting this type of proposal, there is a clear signal from several parties about the impatience in the matter, despite the fact that an electoral committee is set up, which is currently working on reforms of electoral law. In this context, I would like to point out that the Christian People's Party, when it comes to many of the proposals in several cases on today's map, has just referred to the changes that we expect are coming as a result of the work of the Committee on Election Law. But in case no. 1 believes that the Christian People's Party, together with the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left, is the basis for proposing that the barrier be set at 3 p.m., against today's limit of 4 p.m. Such a lowering of the barrier would lead to greater security for the benefit of the cast votes with representation in Stortinget. For example, a lot with a lock limit of 4 pst would. In 1997, a total of 103 365 votes could be obtained without being represented in the Stortinget. We believe that such a system is very unfortunate and should therefore be changed as soon as possible, without waiting for more investigation work. The impropriety in this case is clear and should therefore be corrected as soon as possible. The fact that the Labour Party and the Right do not want such an improvement must be lamented. With regard to proposals relating to the amendment of the cohesion mandate, we await the work of the Committee of the Regions before promoting amendments to the Constitution at this point. I would therefore refer to the minority proposal put forward by the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the SV, which is on page 4 of the Innst. S. No 116.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e253	For the Progress Party, it has been essential to have an electoral system which will ensure, as far as possible, that one vote has the same meaning, wherever it may have been given. It reflects in many ways the positions taken by the Progress Party in this setting. As I said, the greatest possible similarity for each vote has therefore been our basis. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on argumentation or polemics with others, but I'm just going to say that as a result of this basic view, it's also that the Progress Party believes that the eight-mandate system does not guarantee such a fair electoral system that might be desirable. That is why we have made proposals to increase the number of equal opportunities mandates by six, to fourteen. Of course, this will cause a number of practical problems in this Chamber, but even if the number of representatives through this would increase to 171, we believe that the desire for a fair electoral system must count more than a number of other considerations. This also means that in terms of sub-totals, as referred to on page 3 of the setting, we want sub-total 1, which we think would mean that the population of large and small populations on average will be treated equally when the balancing mandates are distributed. Finally, I would also like to point out what the previous speaker was talking about, namely a locking limit of 3 pst. It is the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the SV that are behind this proposal. Now some might easily be tempted to say that this might not be in line with the wishes of the Advance Party, as some could see today where at least the gallup results seem to be on the reassuring side of the barrier. But it's not the calculation that at all times underlies our position, but it's a wish that cast votes can also be reflected in representation. I just refer to what was said by the representative Holten earlier in this context. So we're going in to get a locking limit of 3 pst. To put it this way, it's never good to know what the future brings. With this, I will be allowed to address the suggestions contained in the Innst. S. No 116 on page 4, proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party, and the proposals No. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e264	Hans J. Røssorde has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e267	We are going to deal with six constitutional proposals today, and let me already stress that for the Right, the threshold is high in order to recommend constitutional changes. In this way, it is with regard to the proposals No. 2 and 3 of Document No 12, perhaps not surprisingly, the Right rejects changes in the electoral system. Nor do I believe that the proposals will meet the wishes of the proposers for a fairer proportional representation by increasing the number of balancing mandates, without causing other problems at the same time. In that case, such a change should be seen in conjunction with any future proposal for a certain redistribution between the counties, a reduction in the number of representatives or an increase in the barrier limit. However, lowering the barrier limit or increasing the number of representatives is not relevant for the Right. The draft Constitutional Laws on changes in the electoral system are old knowledge of the Storting. Similar proposals have been dealt with twice before and rejected. It may not be a great surprise either that the majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is insisting that the proposals should suffer the same fate this time, and the Right is part of this majority. The majority may probably have different weightings and arguments for the different reasons for proposing the proposals also rejected this time. In the right, however, we attach great importance to the fact that the provisions of the Constitution, perhaps least of all the rules on how the Storting should be put together, should not be changed in vain. I will not claim that today's electoral system is perfect, and that it cannot be thought to have improved, but the problem is that the perfect electoral system probably does not exist at all. It is difficult to propose concrete improvements without at the same time having a number of weaknesses in the purchase. The majority adopted our current electoral system as late as spring 1988. What you did at the time wasn't just a trick to the rules you had, but it actually represented a very comprehensive and fundamental reform. And it's hard to see that the electoral system that has now worked in three choices has embedded negative aspects of such an extent that it would be imperative to make changes already now. At least time should be taken to await the outcome of the work of the Electoral Committee. I would also like to stress that an important reason for the Right to reject the increased number of balancing mandates is that this weakens the basic principle of the Constitution on the states as electoral district units. Otherwise, I refer to the rapporteur's statement and recommend the majority's vote on all points.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e282	I will first commend Hans J. Røssorde for his wise predictions of the future size of the Progress Party, and in solidarity with a Progress Party of about three pst. SV will go in to lower the locking limit to exactly 3 pst. That's something we can do right now. As far as the longer-term reforms are concerned, our opinion is that we should wait with them until we see the outcome of the Electoral Committee, led by Sigbjørn Johnsen. Let me say that the democratic system in Norway, when it comes to the transition to a new millennium, is over-ripe for reform and for rethinking things. The President-in-Office of the Council has very well initiated a number of changes in the functioning of the Grand Duchy. I think almost everyone in retrospect will recognize that these changes have been beneficial. Some of the changes have been implemented by a very small majority in this Chamber, but there are currently very few who protest against, for example: the spontaneous Question Time, open hearings or the efficiency of the operation of the Storting which has been carried out in recent years. The head of the Labour Party has taken the initiative to consider how we can achieve more stable governments in Norway, how we can obtain majority governments, and to consider, inter alia, whether this should be done. based on the constitutional systems that exist in Germany. All of this is part of such a future debate. I want to point out one more element that I think is very important, and that is thinking about the future of the parties. In our constitutional system, the parties do not play any role in themselves, but a number of laws and rules affect the parties. The reality is that the membership of all Norwegian political parties is falling at such a rate that if you pull this into the future, the last member will leave the last Norwegian political party around 2020. It's clear that just like that doesn't really work, but it's still an ominous signal. And then we see that all the party secretaries in all the parties tell us that just we're getting a little bit neater -- we weren't good enough last year -- just get a new system on the Internet, just the information gets a little bit better, and then the membership numbers have to go up again. When the reality is that all political parties in all Western countries are losing members, it is difficult to believe that this is because the party secretaries are particularly incompetent right now. This is due to much more profound structural changes. The parties are the key to democratic relations between the voters and the political leaders. It is not easy to see what might happen in the place of the lots. It is not now easy to see how the batches might evolve to become a new mechanism in this relationship. But what is certain is that the parties are in a deep crisis. After all, the political parties of the Western world all jumped out of the industrial community. The Labour Party was the party of the trade and labour movement, the Central Party was the party of the peasants, the Right was the party of the civil society and the Christian People's Party and the Left was in a broad sense the party of the opposing cultures. That's this lashing it's now drying up. The reason for this is profound: there are such things as an overwhelming majority of the Norwegian population identifying themselves as belonging to a broad middle class, and they no longer identify themselves primarily with a worker, a civil servant or the upper middle class. The overwhelming majority are in living conditions such a broad middle class. There are also such things as that no one can live their entire lives in a subculture of society, where everyone has almost the same opinion. That's the way it used to be. An industrial worker in Mo i Rana met almost only other industrial workers, and almost everyone else hit him, voted on the Workers' Party, maybe there was some Communist. Everyone had about the same opinion, about the same situation in life, about the same size of living quarters, got a car at about the same time and television at about the same time. I'm parodiing this, but it's still a deep reality. A woman in Oslo's upper class in the Holmenkol lock would also in any case only associate with other people who voted Right, and live in such a subculture. It's not like that anymore. No human being in Norway can let go of Carl I. Hagen no matter how much he or she would want this. Everyone gets counter-conceptions to his own vision all the time. The media community brings us into a new reality where we constantly get problematized everything we mean. One of many reasons why political parties have problems finding members is that almost no one identifies themselves with a political party on every issue. Whoever goes out on the street, on Karl Johan, will be able to find in 10 minutes a picker with about the following panorama: He says: Solheim, so great that you're in for a car-free city. Now the pollution in Oslo is so great that we have to stop car pollution, and it is great that we have an environmental party on Stortinget. Besides, I don't like immigrants, and I think we should have the least possible of them, and I think it's great that the Progress Party is fighting it. I believe that Kjell Magne Bondevik is an excellent Prime Minister, but the Labour Party should govern Norway. And I'd rather not pay taxes, so it's good that the Right fights for lower taxes. – It’s not hard at all to find that kind of perception. And that's what makes almost no young people go into political parties, because you don't find one party that is completely consistent with your own opinion -- you shop parties far along the way to the same extent as you shop things in the shops and in the market that society is. I've just illustrated some aspects of this. My point is not that I am sitting with the fasitators in this way in any way – I don't think anyone is doing it – but that the position of democracy and political parties in this new age must be considered in a more thorough way than I think most of us have done. Perhaps this means that personal choice must play a greater role in politics, perhaps this means finding forms of more direct democracy. There may also be a lot of other solutions to that, but at least we can't pretend this isn't a new time for political parties. I hope that this debate will lead to the election law committee v/Sigbjørn Johnsen going straight into it, taking sides and making proposals on how we can modernise our democratic system for the future challenges we face. Pending this, SV will today vote against all the proposals that have been put forward. Some of them we support, not all, but we believe that they should be included in a much larger whole where we are contemplating the conditions of democracy in a new age – the conditions of democracy in what we can call post-industrial society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e303	I get to record that a relatively recent party leader is at least able to problem some of the role of the parties and the relationship between voters and the representative system – as Erik Solheim just did. And it could be interesting to go into a debate somewhat after the lines that he pulled up, but like the representative Solheim, I guess I'm going to say that it gets us back into a larger and wider context, although it's natural enough to look at the smaller questions from a larger perspective. There are two questions we have to deal with in case No. 1, that's the question of reducing the limit of achieving a smoothing mandate from 4 to 3 pst., and the second is the question of the number of smoothing mandates and then, to the extent that also a question goes on the distribution of the cushioning mandates. What is common to both of these main questions is the desire to give voters greater influence on the composition of the Storting in the sense that both the question of reducing the limit of adjudication mandate and the question of increasing the number of adjudication representatives could lead to a increase of better representativeness compared to the voters. And I don't think, in the perspective that Erik Solheim's representative also drew up, that in itself is something that speaks for the fact that there is a desire for a less representativeness, it could possibly be a question of greater representativeness, for example. in the event of influence on personal choice. The left will support the proposal to reduce the limit to achieve a dithering mandate from 4 to 3 pst. and as such vote in favour of proposal No. 1 in the configuration in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox I don't want to go into the depth of the argument for this proposal, but just say that the argument that is often put forward, that a high limit here should give greater governance, is an argument that we must say the time has run from. To the extent that you want to increase the opportunities for majority governments and so on, it won't be through this limit that you might realize that it will happen. There would be other types of action in that case. It is obvious that the number of balancing mandates in the Norwegian electoral system, of 8, is far too low to ensure fair representativeness between the parties represented on the Stortinget. Based on research in this field, there is a lot of evidence that there is at least a number of balancing mandates between 20 and 30 pst. by the number of representatives, in order to establish a reasonable proportion between the lots represented in the national Parliament. But the proposal to increase the number of balancing mandates from 8 to 14 is at least a step in the right direction, and the Left will therefore support proposal No. 2 in the setting. On the basis of this argument, it could be said in many ways that one should also support the proposals on case No. 2, but it represents more far-reaching changes in the system, and we will therefore wait for the Elections Committee to give its opinion, by going in for proposals in that direction. And when we get so far that the Election Law Committee has given up its position and we get the opportunity to have a wider debate on these questions, there could be little hope that the Right could also be willing to look at some of its constitutional conservatism.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e316	The representative of Solheim raises a number of far-reaching questions of principle in relation to the challenges of the People's Party in the years to come. It is an interesting debate, and of course it is necessary to take such a debate before it is too late. I have to say, however, that my fear of the collapse of the People's Government is more that we are unable to establish legislative and executive assemblies capable of implementing the decisions taken than that the various groupings in this country should not be able to take place in the legislative assemblies through elections. That's why I think it's an impossibility to discuss and decide, as the Socialist Left Party does today, to put down the barrier without seeing this in the context of how it's going to be possible in the future to form governments that will be able to implement the decisions taken by the Storing as a result of the elections. That is why the initiative of the Labour Party leader, Mr. Thorbjørn Jagland, has come to discuss how we should commit ourselves to establishing governance options, also in the close context of how we set up a electoral system to ensure that the people are represented in the Stortinget. I can go a long way in following the thinking that Erik Solheim is dealing with the challenges we're facing, even though I'm not as negative as the parties' ability to renew and meet the challenges we're facing. The alternative, which becomes so-called electoral lists based on individual matters, I see myself as a very negative development for popular democracy. Then it will be the individual things that govern, rather than perspectives that relate to the whole. What surprises me when the Socialist Left Party has such an approach in this debate is that they are jumping on the proposal to put down the barrier without seeing it in a wider context. Then I also allow myself to say – without Svein Ludvigsen’s need for any defence – that when you go on and make changes to the world’s oldest constitutional system, which Norway actually has, I think it’s good that people have time to think about and use – one might say – a constitutional conservatism as the basis for their handling of the various issues. Wicked tongues say – even though we may not talk so much about instability in these times – that actually the Left is actually incapacitated when it comes to voting on questions about the barrier limit, as it is today. This means that everyone has their own motives when entering into such debates as this, and then I think it is a healthy principle that you do not go on change until you are sure – and have an overview of – the consequences of the changes that are being made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e331	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e334	The chairperson of the Committee was unable to agree to make a fine use of that expression to the Left in relation to this issue. Let me first say that when the chairman of the Committee comes up with a defence for Right Constitutional Conservatism on these issues, I find it strange that the Labour Party does so, while attacking the Left, when we are in the situation that the Right quite shortly after it was established, opposed the Left's fight for general voting, first for men, and then voting for women as well. There's a fight Left very much acknowledges, against Right Constitutional Conservatism. Otherwise, I can inform the representative Kosmo's briefing that the left went for a limit of 3 pst. Also in the 1960s, when the left had a significantly larger percentage. And any party might experience the fate that they might become inhabile on these questions. Other to the issue of governance. Is it possible to identify any country in the Nordic region – in order to define a little – where, today, governance is linked to the question of where the limit goes for the balancing mandate and the representation of a party in the national Parliament? The main problem today is that in some countries, there are parties that have not acted according to the fact that they will no longer have a realistic chance of forming majority rule alone.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e346	I do not doubt the historic struggle of the Left for the establishment of a greater degree of democratic electoral system in this country. On the other hand, it is a pity that the Left has not retained any of its attitude to how to deal with different policy challenges. The left was once a radical party, it's not anymore. That is why that comparison is completely unnecessary. Moreover, I have to say that the so-called world's oldest democratic country, India, as a consequence of its electoral arrangements now goes to its fourth choice to establish a governing government at all. At least in many ways, I think that makes it clear that there is no point in discussing the issue of balancing mandates, the question of how flexible an electoral system we are going to have in order to bring about a collapse in such a way that people's will is followed in one and the same, regardless of thoughts and ideas on how to establish a manageable alternative. That is why, in my view, these discussions are interrelated, and so one should not go along with one proposal without discussing the alternatives in relation to the other.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e353	Other countries are brought into the debate. So India has the British single-hull electoral system -- the electoral system that most of all favors the big parties. The reason for the Indian problem is that the country is actually a continent, so for example. there are regional parties which only have representatives from an area of 50 million inhabitants, because it is the largest party in that State, but not a single mandate from any other State. So it doesn't really fit into this debate. On the other hand, very many countries have different barriers. I guess Israel has the lowest. If you have enough to have one mandate in the national Parliament, you will have one mandate in the national Parliament. The whole country is one constituency. Denmark has 2 pst. Germany has 5 pst, and Sweden has about 4 pst, if I don't remember wrong. There is no phase in these things, and this is a debate we must be able to hold. And then to take the positive. I agree with the chairman of the Committee that there is a link between the governance, the barrier and the proposals made by the head of the Workers' Party. I think it is positive that the head of the Committee expressed careful support for the ideas put forward by the head of the Workers' Party, namely to create a system that will force more majority governments in Norway. I see that as a recognition that the time has passed when the Workers' Party could count on a majority alone, expect to govern the country alone. The Labour Party has not had a purely majority in Norway since the election in 1957, and the probability that that situation will come back is probably almost zero. That's why we have to discuss all of these things again, in my view. But I agree that we need both a debate on the future of the parties and a debate on a governance parliamentary system. But the two debates are interrelated, and the more the Committee on Election Law can add up to a broad and intense debate on all of these sides, the better it is at my discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e362	Yes, to the extent that the Electoral Commission is able to provide the basis for the necessary debate, and the parties of the Grand Duchy are taking the time to implement this debate! If this happens when the election commission's proposal is presented towards the end of 2000, that someone gets panic and is going to make all the changes to the 2001 elections, I think we will have difficulty getting a good deal of good practice. For this reason, in the run-up to the Electoral Committee, everyone has to submit their position, seek to participate in the public debate in such a way that we can actually form the basis for the Electoral Committee to address some opinions on key issues. I agree that Norway and India cannot be compared. What was my point was the clear connection there is between electoral arrangements and the possibility of having a majority to give people what they deserve, that is, an executive that can take care of their interests. People's interests are not safeguarded by desertless debates in a parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e369	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e372	It was essentially Solheim's posts that made me take the floor. And after the replication cord shift, there might be reason to comment on some of the visions that have been applied. What underlies the position of the Progress Party in these two cases is, as I said in my first post, the principle of fairness, namely that each vote should count as much as possible. It might have been tempting for the Progress Party today to have a slightly different view of it as we feel a bit above the barrier. So here, the principles are fixed no matter how the gall-up numbers move. There is every reason to be concerned about another part of democratic development, to which Erik Solheim also pointed out, because the interest in taking part in the political debate is one thing, but taking part and taking responsibility in a political party is therefore the failure of – and, as Solheim said – not least among young people. And that's something that all the parties have to take inwards and try to do their own to stimulate more. But it can hardly happen by coercion, so that means that politics has to be made interesting. It is also, in my view, fully acceptable to have the position of the Chairman of the Committee, namely the concern about the governance of a country through the fragmentation of the traditional parties. On the other hand, this is a development. Although it may feel a little hurt for the Workers' Party to be a distant piece from coming back where you once were, this is primarily a challenge for the political parties today to apply together and put some captors on the stable to find out something that is manageable. When the Workers' Party obviously has problems finding partners and others may have problems meeting the Workers' Party, we are where we are today. And it turns out that even a tiny minority government that behaves like the opposition wants to be able to be controlled at least. It's not bad just that! You sit on the cart and hold the logs, and then it's the same thing if it's the coach or he who sits on the load, who smacks on the horse, as long as the trot is quite fine! That's how we feel. If you're uncomfortable with it, well, there's another way to think about it. But the Storting shall, after all, make a number of decisions on a principle basis, and do so, and it shall be observed. Obviously it squeaks a little bit from time to time, it's not all government councils, for example. State councillor Sponheim, who is so willing to listen to what the Stortinge says, but it's the Stortinge's job to fix this. In connection with this horror that votes could lead to small groups sitting on the Stortinget, yes, that is a danger, but as a party representative, I have with Mr. Hagen experience of sitting as the only two who represented the Progress Party. That went well. It has also not been very difficult to be 25! So there has to be room to get an electoral arrangement that gives voters greater influence. So if this is going to increase the support of small parties and the old traditional parties get a drag from time to time, we get to live with it. I think that if you feel that you give a voice that is kind of put aside, as it is shown in the setting, where about 103,000 votes would not be represented on the Stortinget with a lockdown of 4 pst., yes, it also has something to do with how you feel that democracy and democracy building works. We can probably argue about this for a long time, but the time is now different than it was before. It's about creating foundations to build on, and then it's up to the batches themselves to translate the force that you get through the continuance of the voters into something that becomes constructive. I think that several parties have contributed to today's political situation, and the challenges are probably no less in the coming two years. With regard to the work of the Electoral Committee, I understand what the chairman of the Committee said about rushing away after a number of proposals may have been launched. I think it is important that we continue a debate on how to develop this, but I do not want to in any way advance what views the Progress Party might have on this. We'll see when the sample presents its conclusion. It can be interesting and exciting, and no less challenging than the small thing that today's debate has contributed to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e395	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e401	The size is ready to start the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e408	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Hans J. Røsjorde on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the SVproposals No. 2 and 3, from Hans J. Røsjorde on behalf of the Progress Party Because a relatively large minority is expected to support proposal No. 1, the President will propose that voting on this proposal be carried out by roll call. – No objections have been raised against it, and this is how it will be done. Then we shall vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, Christian People's Party and SV. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proposal No 2 of Document No 12 proposal B to amend the sixth paragraph of Section 59 of the Basic Law – to be accepted.’ [[1995-96]] The draft Constitution was as follows: ‘§ 59 sixth paragraph shall be replaced by the following: No Party may be awarded any Equalisation Representative unless it has obtained at least 3 % of the total Voting Number for the whole of the Kingdom.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e432	Those who vote in favour of the proposal of the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the SV, answer yes, and those who vote against the proposal answer no. For the purposes of registration, the President requests the representatives to respond loudly and clearly, and to endeavour to avoid disturbing sounds in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e455	We shall then vote on the proposals from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. 2, which reads: ‘Proposal No 2 of Document No 12 Proposal A.1 for amendments to the second paragraphs of Section 57 and 58 of the Basic Law – accepted.’ [[1995-96]] The draft Constitution was as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e473	The President now expects us to be able to use the voting apparatus.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e484	We shall then vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, which reads: ‘Proposal No 2 of Document No 12 proposal C.1 to amend the seventh paragraph of Section 59 of the Constitution – accepted.’ [[1995-96]] The draft Constitution was as follows: ‘§ 59 seventh paragraph is replaced by the following: The equalisation representatives which a lot opens shall be divided into the lists of the lot by the district elections: the number of votes of the lot shall be divided into numbers 1 – 3 – 5 – 7 and so on. One omits, in each electoral district, as many of the largest candidates as the number of District Representatives the Party has won in the District. The first matching representative of the Party shall be assigned the electoral district which shall then have the largest candidate. The next Equation Representative shall be awarded the Electoral District which has the second largest Quotation, and shall continue until all the Equations Representatives of the Party are distributed.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e519	The President assumes that we can still use the voting apparatus. This is also a proposal to change the electoral system and is about equalisation mandates.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e543	In the absence of the rapporteur, I shall only be allowed to say a few words relating to the proposal that the Progress Party is promoting in the Inner East. S. No 118. The proposal is based on a proposal to amend the Basic Law § 68 and 80 of the representative Edvard Grimstad, and it is only the Progress Party that has moved in the direction proposed by the representative Grimstad. The proposal essentially opens the Storting sooner than is applicable under the law of the day. In our proposal, we have found it right to maintain the proposal that Grimstad made, which allows us to open up the Great Britain's work somewhat earlier. The background to this is simply the problem that has been going on for many years of completing the budgets in such a way that you feel that the work has been done thoroughly enough, that the pressure towards the end is so great that this goes beyond the decisions to be taken. Now it is the case that a budgetary reform is in place as a probationary mechanism. It is a budgetary reform by which the Progress Party has not been the most enthusiastic follower – to say the exact opposite: we have not supported the reform that has taken place here. That may also be the reason why a majority, the members of the Labour Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, refer to the new budgetary procedures and believe that in their form and implementation they provide the time needed to deal with the budget proposals, so that the users of the budgets do not have to go uncertainly to the last part of the Stortingen's meetings in the autumn to find out what the outcome was. In this sense, the case today shows in a way a link between the parties supporting the new Financial Regulation here in Stortinget and those parties who believe that the old scheme should continue to exist. The evaluation, when the trial period is over, will show how this is perceived by the Storting to the seventh and last, and I will not help to try to predict the outcome of this evaluation. But we have therefore chosen to support the ideas expressed by the representative Grimstad, which means that through the proposal we want to start earlier in the year, in line with option 2, where the words «the first Saturday in October» in the Constitution § 68 are replaced by «the third Monday in September». We believe that this will be suitable for creating a basis that will allow Storting to make full use of the time in the harvest. It is clear that this will involve problems, some claim, in the years when there are choices. It would be practical to adapt. I have noticed that the members of the Committee from the Christian People's Party initially understand the proposal, and I have also noticed that the Socialist Left Party in its comments is prepared at least to activate the Storting more in the harvest phase than has been the practical everyday life. With these comments, I refer to the proposal of the Progress Party, which is included on page 3 of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e556	Hans J. Røssorde has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e559	The proposal by Edvard Grimstad to amend Sections 68 and 80 of the Constitution on the Constitutional Treaty on the Constitutional Treaty was put forward on the basis of the desire for a better time for Stortinget's budgetary procedure. The purpose of the proposal was also that if the Storting could be opened on the second or third Monday in September, ‘It is possible for municipalities, county councils and all others dependent on the State budget to have these figures placed in their respective budgets during December and before the beginning of their budgetary year’. Since the proposal was put forward on 30 September 1996, the Stortinget has carefully examined and adopted changes to the treatment of the State and National Budget by the Stortinge, following unanimous recommendations of 20 March 1997 by the Budget Reform Committee, chaired by Gudmund Restad, and at the end of its presidency on 5 June 1997. I'm not so sure if Edvard Grimstad had been so happy that this proposal was being discussed today when things have happened knowingly after the proposal was designed. In any case, I believe that there can be no doubt that the budgetary reform adopted by the Stortinget on 19 June 1997 as a probationary mechanism for the period 1997 to 2001 has resulted in a significant improvement in the time spent in the budget procedure of the Stortinget. The main simplification is that aging just before the Storting took Christmas break, now it is gone. The whole of the budget has been taken into account since the beginning of the budgetary procedure, and I would also like to say that the consideration of the technical committees has been strengthened as the examination of the technical posts is now to be completed. As the majority of the Control and Constitutional Committee also points out, the new budgetary procedure has contributed to the presentation today of the necessary figures from the State budget earlier than before of the social actors affected by the budget process in the Stortinget and in the first series of municipalities and county municipalities. Should Stortinget meet in September, this would mean difficulties in relation to election year. After all, it is also clear in the Basic Law § 54 that the elections must be ‘completed’ by the end of September. That is why it goes without saying that we need to maintain today's system, so that the mandate committee can also present its provisional position immediately to the newly elected Parliament, which is thus the first working day of October. In view of these considerations, therefore, on behalf of the majority of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, I would suggest that the proposal put forward by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on the subject of the change in the history of the Great Britain should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e575	As the representative Røsjorde has already pointed out, the Christian People's Party has a great understanding of the intention of the proposal. It has been highly unsatisfactory when the Storting first completed next year's government budget at the end of December. However, we believe that the new budget procedures are well on the way to meeting the needs of municipalities and county municipalities, as they are presented with the necessary figures from the State budget earlier than before. In our view, therefore, the objectives of the proposer have been largely achieved through the new budgetary reform. In addition, speeding up the merger of the Storting could involve difficulties in relation to the electoral year and an increased time pressure on the government’s preparation for the submission of the State budget. I would also refer to the comments of the Committee on Budgets and recommend the Committee's recommendation: 5 of Document No 12 are not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e584	In this case too, the Right, together with the majority, recommends that the proposal be rejected. In fact, our view is that the proposal is outdated in the sense that the new budgetary reform to be applied for the period 1997-2001 has meant a significant improvement in the mode of work of the Storting, and the social actors concerned are given previous knowledge of important data for them. In this respect, it can be said that the need for a previous meeting is no longer the same as before, and on that point I believe that the representative Røsjorde is wrong when he refers to the budgetary problems just beyond the Christmas evening. It was a problem before the budget reform, and so far experience is that there is a problem. In addition, I refer to Mr. Schaug's posts and agree with his argument. In the opinion of the Court, it will also not be immaterial to speed up the collapse of September in the election years. Moving the election day from mid-September to August/September is not a problem, but it had to be a consequence of bringing the Storting together earlier than today. It was also the representative Røsjorde inside his post. The conclusion is therefore that the Right does not recommend the proposal, but is in agreement with the majority that the amendment to the Basic Law § 68 and 80 should be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e593	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e599	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e605	During the debate, Mr Røsjorde put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proposal No 5 of Document No 12 to amend Section 68 of the Basic Law proposal A option 2 and Section 80 proposal C – to be accepted.’ [[1995-96]] The draft basic legislation, proposal A option 2, was as follows: ‘In Paragraph 68 of the Basic Law, the words ‘the first weekday of October’ shall be replaced by the words ‘the third Monday of September’. ‘... The draft basic legislation, proposal C, was as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 80 of the Constitution shall be replaced by the following: ‘In accordance with the Rules of the Ordinance adopted by the Storthing, the negotiations may be resumed, but they shall cease not later than the last day of the search before the new Storthing meets.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e622	The President assumes that we can vote at the watering plant and that there is an alternative vote between the Committee's suspension and the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e648	I could be tempted to recommend that you just sit down. As rapporteur-in-Office, I should just like to make a brief presentation on the proposal in Document No. 12:7 for 1995-1996 by Carl I. Hagen and Fridtjof Frank Gundersen on a new section 82 of the Basic Law on a binding, alternatively advisory referendum. The proposal implies that the referendum institute would be attached to the constitution. In addition, the proposers point out that the proposal for binding referendums is in fact identical to the current Danish constitution. In the case of referenda, this shall not be a right for the people to demand that certain matters be referred to a referendum, but a right for a minority in the United Kingdom to ask the people for advice in the case of proposals adopted, in the hope that this will lead to the adoption of the decision. The proposers also believe that the proposal will stimulate the interest in policy and social governance, because they believe that referendums give individual voters the opportunity to directly influence the decision-making of major specific issues. The majority do not agree with this view. It is a solid majority, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Socialist Left, which indicates that the Constitutional Bill on Alternatives A.1 and A.2 has previously been dealt with and rejected four times since the beginning of the 1980s. For the majority, it is not possible to find any new arguments to suggest that the Storting should confirm neither a binding nor an advisory referendum. Otherwise, as regards the proposal in Document No: 12:7 for 1995-1996, for which I am the rapporteur-in-Office, I am obliged to draw attention to the fact that it is only the Progress Party that supports the proposal. With regard to the Right, we insist that referendums should be restricted to exceptional cases and particularly important issues. To that end, we do not need any constitutional changes, and the Right will vote to reject the proposal on options B.1 and B.2 as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e667	I'm gonna be short, too. The proposal made by Carl I. Hagen and Fridtjof Frank Gundersen to the new section 82 of the Constitution implies, as the case-law rapporteur said, that the referendum institute will be attached to the Constitution. The proposers also point out that, in the case of binding referendums, the proposal is identical to the Danish Constitution § 42. As the rapporteur, Svein Ludvigsen, also explained in the case of referenda, it is stated by the proposers that it is not a question of giving the people a right to demand that certain matters be referred to a referendum, but, in fact, of access for a minority in the United Kingdom to ask the people for advice on proposals that have already been adopted, in the hope that this will lead to the adoption of the decision. Similar proposals have been dealt with several times in the past, as suggested by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. The last time such a proposal was discussed by the Stortinget was 15 June 1994, and it was then rejected against nine votes. The majority was subject to quite a broad discussion in 1992, on the basis of a separate investigation on behalf of the Presidency of the United Kingdom. It cannot be said that there are any new arguments that call for a different conclusion now than before, namely that there is no constitutional right to binding, alternatively advisory referendums. And the majority of the committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Socialist Left, also agree on the conclusion of recommending to the Storting that the proposal of the Progress Party be rejected, with the arguments contained in the vote, which the rapporteur has put forward in a straightforward and straightforward manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e680	It is stated here that the fact that a proposal has been rejected by the Stortinget earlier is an argument in itself when the proposal is resubmitted and no new arguments have been put forward. It is true, however, that there is also a change of opinion between big business representatives and new representatives. Time goes by, society evolves, and I think there's a good reason to reconstruct such fundamental and principleal views. I don't think it's a good argument – on the contrary, it's a weakness – to resort to the argument that a proposal has been rejected in the past. The principle view of the Progress Party, of which I am a strong supporter, is that the individual should have the greatest possible influence on his or her own situation and on social development. One way to do so is to give the consumer a solid role through demand on the market, so that the consumer can manage production in accordance with his wishes and that the goods and services put at his disposal satisfy his needs. This is achieved through a market economy, which we have largely managed to implement in this country. However, individuals should also have the maximum opportunity to influence the development of society through the political process and the political arena. It is precisely this key issue, this essential need to strengthen the influence of the individual, which lies behind these proposals of the Progress Party. The aim is to create a greater balance of power – one might say – between those elected for four years, who will represent the voters, and the voters themselves, who will not be disqualified in these four years if they disagree with the ones they have chosen. One way of ensuring influence – of course, it must be in relatively important cases – is that one third of the members of the Grand Duchy who disagree with a decision have the right to request that the question be put to the voters in a referendum within a certain period of time. To the extent 25 pst. or more participate in this referendum and there is a majority against the decision to raise the issue, the Grand Duchy must re-examine it and reaffirm the decision in order for it to be valid. That's the point of this. A very great advantage of this is that it is likely to be a very case-by-case debate on precisely this decision. It is of vital importance to public information that, on major and interesting issues that arise, which you often have not foreseen when going to the poll, you have a renewed opportunity to take a stand on this particular issue, and that you have a debate about that. One of the major disadvantages of today's political debate is that it is very person-oriented and insufficiently informed about concrete political issues. The most important issues often arise between the elections and are therefore not the subject of any engaged political debate, at least not such a committed political debate as it would have been if each one had had the opportunity to express their views in a referendum. Now and then, sometimes it's against referendums that there's often little voter participation. That's what we've been guarding against here by at least asking for 25 pst. vote-participation in order that the vote may have any bearing. But in a way, I don't think it's a good argument against referendums that voter participation is often small. I guess that really means that those who are interested in the matter are the ones who are voting. Those who do not vote have no interest in the matter, and then they should have no influence on the result. There are often issues in society that affect some very strongly and others very little, and that it results in a referendum, just means a reasonable balance of interest, and that it is reflected in the election results. Another objection to holding referendums and letting them be decisive is that of the district, where you get into the remarkable fact that there will be one vote per. In this country, people do not gain different voting weights in different parts of the country, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. votes in the Oslo area weigh less than votes in the districts. That influence will in a way be eliminated by holding nationwide referendums. But it is possible to correct it to the extent that, at the end of the day, it is the Storting that, following such a referendum that opposes the majority of the population, has to take a new decision. Then there is full opportunity to consider such matters when you see how the voices have fallen in the different parts of the country, so that you can take certain district policy considerations when you decide in the Grand Duchy after the referendum has been held. Another advantage of referendums is that politicians are forced to ask clear and straightforward questions as far as possible, so that people can have clear policy options. In Norway, there is a special need for referendums. The reason for that is that we don't have a right to dissolve, we're forced to continue with the same size for four years. And then it is all the more necessary — especially if unexpected things occur in these four years — to be able to consult the voters on important issues. That is why I think that referendums in Norway will be particularly topical because we lack the right to dissolve. As has been said, today, a majority in the European Parliament can also decide that there should be an advisory referendum on a matter, which has happened on a number of occasions, especially when there have been questions of EU membership. But such an admission for a majority to ask for a referendum is not reassuring, for largely after a decision is taken, a majority in the United Kingdom will feel no need to present the question to the people in a referendum. They will have very little interest in that, and that really means that consultative referendums so to speak will never be used. I have a certain understanding that this proposal does not arouse any general enthusiasm, because that means that politicians as an interest group have to give some of the power back to the people, and that one cannot use one's right of representation so sovereignly during the parliamentary term. There are few interest groups in Norway who voluntarily renounce their influence, so I basically have some understanding that if you're not very concerned about the individual's right and the individual's ability to influence his situation, both in the market and in political life, you're inclined to stick to the old. Finally, I would like to put forward the proposals of the Progress Party, which is on page 3 of the vote. That is proposal No. 1 and Subsidy Proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e708	Fridtjof Frank Gundersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e711	In ‘the House of Commons’ in November 1947, Winston Churchill stated the following: «No one pretends that democracy is perfect or all-wise. Indeed, it has been said that democracy is the worst form of Government exception all those other forms that have been wired from time to time." Or if we translate the last one into Norwegian: ‘Democracy is the worst form of governance available, except for all the other forms that have been tested over time.’ Democracy is a good thing. At the same time, we know that it is a time-consuming, expensive and often inefficient form of governance. I believe that the proposed constitutional change will make democracy more expensive, more time-consuming and not necessarily better. We know that it is a large and expensive device that is being launched in referendums. The reasons for the proposal state that referendums appear as a correction to representative democracy. I believe that we already have more means we can use to try to correct the representative democracy. We have party machines, we have media, we have popular opinion and polls, and we have choices, not just every four years, but every two years. Through all those means, people can be part of and express their opinion and be part of and influence. Proposals for binding referendums have been dealt with and rejected several times in the Grand Duchy. In the view of the Christian People's Party, there are no new arguments that suggest that we should agree to the introduction of binding referenda this time either. With regard to referenda, we are of the opinion that it should be limited to very special situations, and we do not agree with options B.1 and B.2.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e732	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e738	Then we should be ready to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e822	: It shall then be put to the vote on proposal No. 2. by the Contracting Party, which is a subsidiary proposal: ‘Proposal No 7 in Doc. No 12 [[1995-96]] Here, too, we have to vote in two rounds. The basic legislative proposal, option A.1, was as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e895	The vote will now be taken at the next voting time. No alternatives have been accepted through the voting process and voting over the setting is therefore unnecessary and lapses. Then we're going to deal with the number of cases. 5 and 6. At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that matters be dealt with together – and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e918	: Inner. S. No 120 and Inner. S. No 121 on municipal autonomy can be seen in context because Innst. S. No 121 on new § 110 d of the Constitution is covered in Innst. S. No 120. The Committee does not support any of the proposals to legislate on municipal autonomy. Municipal self-government has been practised for over 160 years. The Committee considers that municipal autonomy is an important and deeply anchored principle and does not see that there has been any disadvantage in the lack of provisions of the Constitution on the scheme. The proposed changes will not make local governance more efficient or more rational. Nor will the amendments strengthen the legal position of the individual. On the other hand, it is unclear what legal effects the proposed provisions could have. The Committee does not wish to impose any unintended restrictions on the freedom of action of the Government and the Grand Duchy and will avoid any changes in the constitution creating confusion about these issues. The Committee considers that the text of the Council of Europe Convention must be interpreted as a wish and not as an absolute requirement. On this basis, the Committee's position is unanimous in rejecting the proposals. On the part of the Labour Party, we believe that a value debate on local self-government will have to go beyond constitutionalising something that is currently beyond doubt a well-established practice in a well-developed local democracy. One proposal is from the Council of State and party leader Lars Sponheim. We find the background to the proposal in the programme of the Left Party, where we want greater freedom in the municipalities to retain more of the income from local value creation, for example. by determining its own level of taxation. I see that the proposers maintain their proposals, and then draw attention to the fact that they are not represented on the Constitutional Committee. The Labour Party is afraid that such a constitutional attachment will weaken, and create confusion about, the possibility of implementing a national distribution policy. I would also like to point out that the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Centre proposed the constitutionalization of local self-government to the County Council of the Municipalities in 1996. The Labour Party and the Advance Party put forward an alternative proposal to move towards this, and it was adopted. So the proposal that we are discussing here today fell into the county council of the Communes. A debate on the development of local democracy is a very important and necessary debate. A constitutional change following the proposals available is not the answer to the challenges facing our local people's government. Local democracy needs to be renewed, not basic legislation with unclear consequences. I would also like to show that there are now several samples working on the conditions under which the Constitutional proposals are based. We should wait for these sample work to take place before making any major legislative changes in favour of local government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e946	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e949	It is with some wonder that I read the committee setting that is available. There are a number of points in which I think there is a reason to ask questions about the arguments, but I will only take three of them quickly in relation to the statements made by the rapporteur. Firstly, it is stated in the preamble that the issue of local self-government and its fundamental law relates to the relationship between public authorities and that the legal position of individual citizens is not affected. I have to admit that I am wondering about this argument. Is it not the case that voting rights must be perceived as the fundamental and fundamental right of a citizen in a society? And will it not then be such that exercising voting rights also in local matters and matters must be absolutely fundamental to the individual citizen's legal position? I must say that I am very wondering about this argument. The second question relates to the following: The last issue of the constitutionalisation of local self-government was dealt with in 1988. After that, the United Kingdom acceded to the 1989 Council of Europe Convention on Local Self-Government. Does it not matter to the Workers' Party that Norway has undertaken an international obligation to legislate on municipal autonomy? And third, it's said that well-known practices take care of local self-government. What problems will there be with the proposals made in relation to the recognised practice?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e960	I am deeply afraid that it will not dampen the wonder of the representative, but, as I said in my first post, the background of this proposal is very clear in the Left's programme, and it is also explained by the desire for different tax collection locally, based on the local value creation. It will, according to the Labour Party’s position, weaken the ability to pursue national distribution policies. As for the fact that we are afraid that this proposal will also be about a discussion on the relationship between levels of government, I think, just as I said in my first post, that it will not strengthen the legal position of the citizens, but lead to a debate on competences at different levels. If it is the case that the representative Hove believes that this is a problem, I would like to reply that he must also point out what is the weakness today. I don't see it this way out in District Norway that it's the Constitution that is the answer to the challenges that local democracy is facing, and I also showed that there was a solid majority in the KS county council that thought that constitutional law wasn't the answer to the challenges. As far as the Convention is concerned, we have said that it is to be seen as a wish and not an absolute requirement. And I remind you that the committee is unanimous, so this is actually not just the Labour Party line either.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e969	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e972	It is surprising and disappointing that proposals to legislate for local self-government have been unanimously rejected in the Committee. I have participated in many debates in Stortinget about the need to strengthen local self-government. The consensus has increased for each debate. The parties have struggled to propose measures and also legislative changes to succeed in this. At the same time, it is felt at the local level that the room for action to decide for itself is getting smaller and smaller in cases where the Stortinget has ordered the municipal sector to carry out the tasks. I believe that a fundamental law-making could contribute to a stronger impact for local democracy in Norwegian practical policy. A fundamental law-making will emphasise the respect of the Stortinge for the efforts being made in local elected bodies. I agree that a fundamental law is not a prerequisite for developing a living and strong local government, but I would like to remind you that the Stortinget has found it right to include in the Constitution provisions on the individual's right to clean nature and sustainable development in the country as well as on the human rights – both provisions contained in Section 110 of the Constitution in recent years. These provisions are of the same basic character as Proposal No. 11, from Eva Lian, Terje Riis-Johansen and myself, and as proposed, in the same words, by Lars Sponheim. Such provisions are not unnecessary and will not lead to ambiguities as indicated in the adjustment. And the Committee's other objections to this position against our proposal would have prevented the introduction of provisions on the right to clean nature and sustainable development and human rights in the Constitution – the exact same argument that has now been used could have been used to prevent those provisions from coming into force. And I have to say that when I hear from the President-in-Office that a constitutionalisation of the local People's Government should be a weakening or a threat to national distribution policy, I am more surprised than can be said. Our Constitution is based on the principle of popular sovereignty – that the people govern through elected representatives. The Municipal People's Government is a strengthening of this principle. It represents a strengthening of the legal position of the individual to have the greatest possible influence on the public decisions relating to the individual. Our position is that the Constitution should contain the basic features of the management system in a country. The majority has agreed to Norway signing the Council of Europe Convention on Local Self-Government. Article 1 reads as follows: ‘The principle of local self-government shall be recognised in national law and the Constitution where this can be implemented’. When the new municipal law was passed in 1992, the local government was legislated in the purpose section of the law. The Municipal Law Committee was a member of the Constitutional Council of Local Self-Government. But the matter was not followed up by the Government and Stortinget at the time. I believe it has been established in a court order in Oslo Byrett, mentioned in our draft document, that Norway has not complied with the requirements of the Convention. All Nordic countries have acceded to this Convention. In Sweden, provisions on local autonomy were incorporated into the Basic Law in 1974, in Denmark as early as 1953. I will be able to address the proposed proposal by Harald Hove and myself, which will make the municipality's autonomy a constitutional principle if it is adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e994	Morten Lund has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e997	I must first be allowed to express joy at the fact that representatives of other parties are reading the programme of the Left. But to be very clear about it: the draft constitution of the Left does not propose to legislate for the Left's programme, as it could almost be heard on the case-rapporteur as if she were assuming. Municipal self-government belongs to the parties, and to some extent to the principle debates in the Stortinget. But when we get to the specific individual areas, and when there are issues about giving local self-government a weight that it deserves, by also introducing it into the Constitution, then all the concerns come on the table – the concerns that this could create some problems for Storting's governance with the municipalities then emerge, and it becomes uncertain what effects this could have. Yes, there are many concerns. There are many concerns about not being able to control the municipalities adequately, but there is no concern about the extent to which the municipalities will be able to develop and develop the municipal autonomy that is allowed to belong to the parties, and only the fundamental debates in the Stortinget. It is stated in the committee setting: ‘The Committee will further point out that the legal effects of the proposed provisions are unclear.’ It's a repetition of what was said in 1988. If it is that one is uncertain about the consequences of a proposal for a provision on local self-government in the Constitution, but at the same time wished this, then in the 11 years we should have been able to have a more detailed assessment of the consequences of this. Since the last time the Storting has dealt with this issue, one is actually in the situation that, first of all, we have signed a convention that requires a fundamental law on municipal autonomy. We have had the position of the Municipal Law Committee, which clearly says that municipal autonomy should be enshrined in the Constitution. And the chairman of the Municipal Law Committee, Professor Jan Fridthjof Bernt, makes it clear that the Stortinget is neglecting its international legal obligation when one does not even try to legislate municipal autonomy. So what is it that speaks for a basic law of municipal autonomy? Well, like Morten Lund, it's the point, first of all, that if you think that the municipalities are a central part of our governance and our democracy – which in fact all give their fundamental support to, at least in the celebrations – yes, this too should be enshrined in the Constitution. It becomes a little bit strange that these central and important institutions in our system of governance, on a principle basis, should not have their place in the Constitution. Secondly, then, the popular sovereignty principle is based on the fact that it is the people through elections to rule in society. This has been reflected in the Constitution as far as the National Assembly — State governance is concerned. It should then be a point to let this be expressed in the Constitution also with regard to local self-government. So it's a fundamental civil right that we're talking about here: having the ability to put together local elected bodies through elections, and exercising voting rights there as well. It is therefore quite incomprehensible when the Committee refers this to being a matter of relations between public bodies and that it should have nothing to do with the legal position of individual citizens. It could almost be tempting to ask if the right to vote has become such an obvious and, of course, something for you that one almost forgets the fact that the right to vote is actually the fundamental right that one has. So to the question whether this is necessary. There has been no evidence of any disadvantages in that the principle has not been enshrined in the Constitution. No, that's it. Fortunately, despite all the fundamental debates, the debate has led and been the most tone-setting when it has been more basic in municipal legislation for treatment. In this sense, it is clear that we have had a local autonomy and will continue to have a local autonomy, probably, even if this is not grounded. This way, it might not be necessary. But you might want to ask yourself the question: Could that be desirable? And if you answer yes to the fact that it would be desirable, shouldn't it be the central issue of whether you should vote in favour or against the proposal? I don't think there's any doubt that it's desirable for municipal autonomy to be grounded. It would be a sign of taking this seriously and highlighting the importance of local elected bodies in a completely different way from what is currently the situation. At a time when there are, in fact, difficulties in getting people to stand as candidates in municipal elections, and where we are in the situation of having a falling participation in elections to local governments, this might be the best thing to do in the short term to show the importance of the bodies you ask people to make choices, and you want the voters to go to the urn to choose. Thus, Norway has signed a European Council Convention on Local Self-Government, and Article 1 has a prerequisite for this to be enshrined in the Constitution. But then there is a reservation: in order to sign this convention, it is not necessary to establish a constitution, if this is not possible in each country. And in Norway, we are in the situation that there could have been a problem. If the Convention had been adopted in the United Kingdom by 85 to 80 votes, we all know that it would not have been a constitutional majority for the Convention in Norway. In other words, one would have had to accept that a majority accepted the Convention under treaty law and the rules governing the conclusion of treaties, and that at the same time there was such a large minority that it was not possible to legislate the principle of Norwegian law. However, the individual representative who is in favour of the Convention provision should at least consider himself obliged to do so in order to bring the Convention obligations into line with the Norwegian Constitution. When this convention is adopted unanimously by this magnificence, it is in fact incomprehensible that it should be something almost impossible for the same greatness also to give this autonomy, as it has been committed to after the convention, a place in the Constitution. There is no link between the argument for the Convention and the obligation in it to make municipal autonomy part of the Constitution. So to the question of any problems that this might create. This was put in some work by the Left in designing the three alternatives to the Constitutional text, just to meet it. First of all, when this was discussed in 1988, there was actually an argument against the proposal that existed, which there might be reason to understand, namely that it was in favour of legislating both municipal and county autonomy. Therefore, the county councils were not included, just to prevent them from coming up with that argument. Secondly, in option 1, the proposal on which the Left stands alone today and which I now use the opportunity to make, it is just the basic elements that have been fundamental and lasting in the Norwegian municipal autonomy for all 160 years. Secondly, two less comprehensive options were also proposed, and the option of which the representative Morten Lund and I agree cannot possibly have unintended effects other than that we undertake to continue to have a municipal autonomy, a local self-government, in Norway. It is about on the level of what has been laid down in the Danish Constitution, and significantly less binding than what is laid down in the Swedish Constitution. I wonder what unexpected and unbridled consequences this might have. If that's what makes you have doubts about basic law, you could at least take steps to make sure you get this further worked out. Against this background, I strongly recommend that the Stortinge should vote in favour of a fundamental legislating of municipal autonomy, preferably through the Left's proposal, and if not, at least through the common proposal of the Central Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1036	Harald Hove has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1042	I registered that the representative Hove tried to make a reasonable review of pre- and counter-arguments, and he only partly succeeded with it. When he asks if basic law is necessary, we can only show that it has worked for 160 years – a reasoning that he has been following for a long time. So to this if it's desirable. To that the representative said that this was a mark, and there is a majority in this room who believe that symbolic values should not be enshrined in the constitution. So there's no popular requirement, neither from local government nor from the people, to legislate for this. I think it is wrong to say that local self-government only belongs to the parties. Municipalities have the opportunity to develop autonomy within the framework we have today. I want to ask the representative – he is certainly aware that both the Sundsbø Committee and the Task Distribution Committee are at work – why it is so urgent to base this without further investigation, if it was not for the Left Programme. And then I have to refute that I have read the program of the Left, but I have strictly had to put myself into what they meant about self-government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1051	To the question of legislating symbols: No, if they were pure symbols, I do indeed agree with the representative Husøy that I would not base them. But there are some symbolic values – or some values that you might also call symbolic, and that at the same time have clear weights as values – that you have actually seen a point in basic law fixing. In order to mention this with both human rights and the environment, and insofar as it is also necessary to have a responsibility to ensure that people get work – to take the constitutional provisions that we have in Section 110, and also in some letters added to Section 110 – it is precisely symbols and values that have been perceived as so important that they have been wanted to be grounded. So we see that municipal self-government has such a weight and value that it's important to basicize this. So to the question of why it's so urgent. Well, that's for the first time because this is the time we're dealing with Constitutional proposals that were made in the last period, and we don't get a new occasion in this period. So there's no question that it's so urgent, but that's now it might have to be done. Besides, you didn't do it eleven years ago when you last had the chance. It could be natural to ask the question the other way around: when would you possibly get there that you would think about doing that? And then to this if it's desirable. It is clear that if you established municipal self-government, it would give the municipalities a slightly higher weight. It could just be a basis for the municipalities to develop their local peculiarity in a better way, and it could just be a way to get to some of the other things, and give it a little more weight, as the representative Husøy was in.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1062	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1065	It was the representative, Mr. Hove, in a reply with the representative, Mr. Husøy, who made me ask for the floor. There he gave the impression that the Council of Europe Convention of 15 October 1985 on Local Self-Government was almost to be understood so that we were required to legislate on it. Later, in his main post, he went back on it and had a more nuanced and correct view of it. Because there can be no doubt, it's not a requirement for basic law. That's also one of the reasons why we don't go into it, as well as that we don't think it's necessary. The two proposals we are dealing with have been dealt with before and rejected. It is not a strong argument in itself, but it is a strong argument that a joint control and constitution committee does not find a single new argument that we should change our view from the time we last rejected it. So instead, the representative Lund is disappointed, as he expresses it. But I am surprised that it is not perceived as a crossroads of thought for the representative, Lund, that for over 150 years we have had municipal autonomy without it having been constitutionalized, and without weakening municipal autonomy. To the representative of Hove, I would like to say that, in the right, we believe that the municipalities are an important part of our social system, but it may not be possible that you have to legislate for that to be the case. For the Right, it is also not possible to find a single valid argument that a basic law would make the municipal self-government more effective or strengthen the legal position of the individual, so here I agree with the case rapporteur who addressed this in his main post. So the conclusion on my part and on my right is that the proposals will have no practical effect at all and will have to be regarded as purely symbolic markings on the part of the proposers, which I perceived by the representative, Mr Hove, was inside and admitted in his first post. In other words, both proposals are rejected by the right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1078	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1081	There are no new arguments, says the representative Ludvigsen. Of course, it's up to the individual to decide what you see as new arguments or not. But I would like to point out what I have been talking about in the past, and which I would challenge directly to the representative Ludvigsen, namely the fact that the previous proposal, which was rejected, also contained a fundamental law of the county councils, which the proposals we now have to deal with, do not do. In addition, the European Council Convention has come into force in the meantime. Now let the debate on Norway be compulsory by international law or not to legislate on this autonomy lie a little near, and I would also challenge the representative Ludvigsen, who, like me, was not a representative when the convention was passed: when voting for a convention that assumes that it is highly desirable with and in a way requires fundamental law, should you not feel obliged to vote for a fundamental law, and then you were also allowed to accept that it was not possible because we have different majority rules for a convention and a constitutional law? And just in the end: symbols can sometimes be important, at least when they express basic values. I can assure both the representative, Husøy, and the representative, Ludvigsen, that the Left will work actively to safeguard municipal autonomy, even without the question of a fundamental law fixing it, and thus in a way to make the foundation law binding unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1090	I have no problem agreeing with the representative of Hove the last time he says, namely that it is a good thing to work for a strong municipal self-government without it being constitutional. And that's exactly what's the argument for an overall control and constitution committee, that municipal autonomy is not weakened if these proposals are rejected. That the representative of Hove believes that this is a new proposal and a strong argument for legislating because the county council has now been withdrawn from the proposal in relation to the previous one, I do not think that any argument convinces the Right, and it has obviously not convinced anyone else in the committee either. With regard to the convention adopted and signed by Norway, the question is, should we not commit ourselves here and now vote in favour of this fundamental law? I don't think so, and I have argued in my main post why not be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1097	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1100	It's not okay to disagree with your friends. The Christian People's Party understands the desire to legislate local self-government, with the reason that such fundamental law might contribute to a stronger impact on local democracy in practical politics. Real power of elected bodies is at least a prerequisite for most people to find it meaningful to engage in political work and take responsibility for social development. However, when we do not want to endorse the proposal, it is justified that local self-government already has a long tradition and weight, and that, in our opinion, it will hardly matter to strengthened local democracy if this principle is to be enshrined in the Constitution. I would also like to refer to Mr Ludvigsen's statement and recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1111	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1123	We're ready to start voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1129	During the debate, Mr Hove has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proposal No 8 of Document No. 12 to new Section 82 of the Basic Law – Option 1 – acceptable.’ [[1995-96]] The draft Constitution was as follows: «New § 82 is replaced by the following: Norway is divided into municipalities which exercise municipal autonomy. Decisions relating to a geographical area and its inhabitants must be taken by their own elected representatives, unless decisions are taken at a higher level. It is up to the State to ensure that the municipalities have access to their own resources and resources, which are in line with the tasks that the municipalities have to perform. State control of the municipalities is to be confined, in principle, to the compliance of decisions with the Law. Detailed provisions on the municipal system and on the division of powers and responsibilities shall be laid down by law.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1148	The vote is alternately between the vote and the proposal from the Left, and the President expects us to vote with the voting system. – That seems to be an agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1166	During the debate, Mr Lund has put forward a proposal on behalf of Mr Hove and himself. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proposal No 11 of Document No 12 to new § 110d of the Basic Law – accepted.’ [[1995-96]] The draft Constitution was as follows: ‘New § 110d is replaced by the following: Local Self-Government is exercised by elected bodies. Detailed provisions on this matter shall be laid down by law.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1179	An alternative is to vote between the vote and the motion by Morten Lund and Harald Hove. The President assumes that we can also use the wetting plant here. – That seems to be an agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1203	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2939]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1217	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group of parties and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1228	The presentation by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs was relatively sober and straightforward. I actually agree with much of what the Council of State said, which is because the statement this time was more realistic and more consistent with the reality we live in than the promises and statements made by the Central Party before the 1997 elections. At that time there was a big word and not a way of how many billions were to be used for all good purposes, among other things. in the municipalities. The Waxenå Declaration states: ‘Each municipality should therefore be able to assume, as an objective for long-term planning, that the population is to be maintained.’ This, of course, is not repeated in the statement. Now it is said that ‘the main features of the housing pattern shall be maintained’. It is in line with the aim of the Workers' Party. I will also refer to the Nations from 19 April, which could report that the Government has not fulfilled its promise to reverse the movement flow, rather against. New figures from the Central Statistical Office show that people continued to move from town to city during the first 15 months of central government. From October 1997 to December 1998, there were 8,500 more people moving from District Norway to cities than in the opposite direction. And the decline in the population was greatest in the most pig-grown strokes. This shows that, in some areas, social developments in the past and a half years have gone in the opposite direction to what the centre party promised in the election campaign in 1997, and even while the centre party has been responsible for the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. The government party is to have the honor that they have now gone away from their enormous promises from the time they were in opposition. I think that's good, because then I also think the possibilities of getting something together for the benefit of the districts are bigger, because there's no miracle medicine. However, the presentation contained few new measures. I also think it was very thin in areas such as the municipal sector, culture, agriculture and transport, to name a few. I am particularly surprised at how little the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs focused on the role of municipalities, also in a district policy context, and that it is actually important that we provide municipalities with an economy that enables them to perform the services they are set to provide. On 21 April, we received a circular from the Municipality’s Central Association, which states that the municipal sector experienced its weakest operating result in 1998 ‘since the end of the 1980s’. A weak local economy is particularly unfortunate for the outlying and district municipalities. Both a strong and extensive municipal sector and good and effective communications are very important for the citizens of District Norway. I do not think anyone should underestimate the importance of culture either. It is the major regional policy that is most important. That's the job we do every day in labour market policy, business policy, education and transport policy, and not least that we keep order in the Norwegian economy, which is crucial if we do this. There is no doubt that labour market policy here is absolutely central, because if people don't have a job to go to, they obviously don't move to that municipality. Therefore, the goal of working for all must be job no. 1st@item: inlistbox In my opinion, it is commendable that the Council of State has put forward a debate on state conversion processes and state localisation policies. But I feel that the Council of State in this matter is communicating two things at the same time. Firstly, he says that state adjustments should be put on ice until the impact of regional policy has been investigated. Secondly, he says that the conversions decided by the Storting must go as planned. This isn't entirely in jeopardy. I take it as a matter of course that the decision to raise the issue is followed up. What, after all, must be decisive is what offer we can give to our citizens. I think that in many areas we have to do things in new ways and be open to changes and changes if it serves the users. Public service offices are an example of this. It is good if the population can get fewer doors to the public and fewer people to deal with. Such processes should not be iced. Therefore, I also believe that one should be very careful to give signals that conversion processes should now be slowed down or put on ice. I also have a number of questions relating to the proposals of the Council of State to impose on state enterprises in transition certain requirements and contributions to means of conversion. Should state enterprises be penalised if they change their organisational structure? Wouldn't it be better if we did more to stimulate positive business start-ups? In the Labour Party, we think positive measures are better than sanctions. The government has also called for the relocation of state activities from Oslo. In view of this, it becomes a bit strange when the Council of State in the Evening Post of 19 April 1999 asked the following question: ‘Can you be more specific about what you plan to move out?’ The Council of State, Enoksen, replied as follows: ‘I must honestly admit that I am not now seeing how this is to be solved.’ Although the population in some regions has fallen somewhat in recent years, this does not mean that Norwegian district policy has fallen. It is likely that depopulation would have been much greater if we had not focused on active labour market policies, a strong community sector and active business and district development. We also have flexible rural people in many districts, who move more, thus compensating for lack of provision locally. We also see clear trends that where there are strong regional centres, they also act as a buffer against further centralisation. A continued commitment to regional centres and encouragement to cooperation between municipalities is therefore important, even when we are talking about maintaining the main features of the housing pattern. Another important challenge is to get young people to move back to their home municipalities after they have completed their education. In this context, I think what's in the statement is positive, both when it comes to betting on young people and women, because without them, Building Norway stops. I think one of the most important things we can do is ask the youth himself what it takes for them to return to their municipality, and it is also important to keep in touch with them while they are out. I also think we need to put in much stronger instruments to turn the female stream from the countryside. This is a complex problem, but it's at least one area I think it's done too little, and it's for women settlers. Establishing yourself at work is not an obvious choice for many women. Being a self-employed person is as little a transparent career choice for women as it is for men. In addition, assuming that the traditional gender role pattern is stronger in the districts, this will increase the cultural barriers to women’s establishment here. I think we have a lot to pick up by introducing measures earlier in the process than is the case today. Studies show that the most important non-response occurs before one has come to the point where one tries to establish an enterprise. Therefore, tools and awareness-raising efforts to make women do this can be a way to go. Why can't we make a campaign for female founders similar to the one we, for example. have in order to recruit women for technical education, etc.? I also believe that a quite critical should go through the form field to become a woman's founder. It is also important that we have properly developed public services in schools, kindergartens and care for the elderly. I also believe that the housing offer is important, and not least a satisfactory and stable medical coverage means a lot. In addition, of course, we need to continue to focus on education and skills building in the districts. Here regional colleges play a very important role in providing young people with an opportunity to obtain higher education without having to move far too far from home. I agree with the Council of State of Enoxen that it is also important to invest in existing businesses in the districts. In addition to this, we need to focus on the development of new industries and businesses, and in this context SND is an important partner in creating new jobs in the districts. With regard to the instruments of regional and regional policy, I think that we have a lot to get to coordinate our instruments better, so that in this area too, we generally have one door and as few people as possible to deal with. The most important thing for people in the districts, as for people else in the country, is that we can keep order in the Norwegian economy. Therefore, a stable economy with low interest rates helps to ensure employment and low unemployment in districts. It becomes, as I see it, one of the greatest challenges in the future, and I would also like to say that we are looking forward to the concrete proposals that may come out of the signals contained in this statement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1291	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1294	As everyone knows, one cannot speak district policy without entering into other areas in the same way, such as transport policy, agricultural policy, industrial policy, local economy and democracy, taxes and charges, or labour market policy. In today's labour market, needs, competences and professionals are changing at an increasingly rapid pace, and the need for skilled labour in business requires people to move at an increasing rate and pace. District policies are considered by many to be the same as people living in the countryside where they are born, but I can't see any point in that we need a costly district policy to counteract just the labour mobility that the country currently relies on. Is it not also understood that there is an important prerequisite for the country's economy with a high degree of just labour mobility, and that moving can actually be part of a process for the benefit of the country, and not just to the detriment of it, as it is produced?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1301	I am not surprised that the Progress Party is not particularly concerned with district policy. I don't think there's anything new, neither for me nor anyone else in this room. The Labour Party has never said that it is harmful that people move on. We have never arranged for a person to make laws or regulations that require people to live in the municipality in which they were born. Of course it's not like that. On the contrary, we have said that it is not certain it is harmful, I actually think in many ways it may be good that young people, for example. moves out of a municipality for a period of education, experience, etc. But it is clear that it must be a major problem for – I would think – most political parties that the movement flow has now become as strong as it actually is. We know that there are especially women and young people who don't come back. That's something we're at least busy doing, but we've never, of course, been able to decide where people are going to live. It's not desirable. With regard to the representative Andersen raised about working life, there is one main response to this with a lack of competence among some, and it is the major continuing training reform that is now likely to be implemented, but I have not experienced that the Progress Party has been a particularly strong support player in this respect. Otherwise, it's now a big challenge to make sure that we can ensure employment, that we can actually prevent more people going out of work. There are some dark clouds in the sky in that context, and I would remind you that we still have over 60,000 unemployed in Norway per year. today. In addition, of course, we have to ensure that job vacancies are linked to people who are unemployed, but we do not, as I said, intend to decide that people have to move here or there, nor that they have to stay in their municipality. We are also in favour of freedom of choice in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1312	I would like to thank the representative for a largely constructive contribution. I appreciate that. But then there was the question of the deportation that is happening. Recent figures show that 8,000 people have moved from the districts to the central area in the past year. This number, in my opinion, gives no reason to characterise the government's commitment to the district municipalities. It's too early to draw conclusions. It was first in the state budget for this year that we got a promise that makes it possible to exercise a strong influence for the benefit of the districts. 1999 is in a way the first year with such a strongly coordinated commitment to profiling the districts of their premonitions and making the municipalities aware of their important task, to compete in a positive way to be a haven for a growing population. The government has taken action, and agricultural policy has been mentioned. Last year, we had a pre-negotiable statement that was positive, and that created some optimism in agriculture. It's necessary. We have also tried from the government with some initiatives when it comes to moving out government jobs, but it has not yet given the desired results. That's why we're a little bit stuck saying what this can lead to in the future. We still have a strong objective to achieve this, especially when it comes to new institutions or jobs. The local economy will continue as a negative example. I think it's a little misplaced, as the municipalities have our payroll in many ways, and that it was paychecked last year that created this great bias. We took in something this year with a huge tax increase. In this context, I would like to ask the representative whether it is not very early to draw conclusions that the results are not coming, all in the start-up phase of the Government's district effort.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1323	I think at least we can draw one conclusion after this government has been in the government offices about. 15 months, and that's that the government is miles away from the promises that at least the central party expressed before they entered the government position. I would like to remind you of statements and decisions that the population in all the municipalities of the country should be maintained. It was moderated to reverse the movement flow, and then it was further moderated to maintain the main features of the housing pattern, which is in line with our objective. I believe that this is quite far from the promises that were made, and it must be allowed to recall the criticism that the Workers' Party was not least subjected to while we were in government and the Central Party was in opposition. Then it was so easy to reverse the movement flow. Then the Central Party comes in and takes over the State Council place in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, and we see that the movement flow is increasing further. – There are no numbers that the Workers’ Party has invented, there are numbers that the Statistical Center has invented. But I've given the Council of State credit for now acting more soberly and more realistically in relation to the reality we live in. Then I believe that the possibilities of getting something together are greater than when the Council of State talks in large words about something that it is not possible to get into practice. There is no magic form for how we can reverse the movement flow. We can't decide where people are going to live by decision in this room. So to what was said about the municipal stake. It is true that we were not in all amounts when it came to direct district bet, as Regeringa suggested, but we suggested instead approx. One billion more to the municipalities and one billion more to the redistribution of the tax assets to the tax-deprived municipalities. I think there are much more targeted and important measures than just adopting very small measures in areas which in themselves may be important. But it is the big district policy that is crucial for whether we do this, and here Kommune-Norway plays a very important role.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1332	: I note with satisfaction that the representative Brustad emphasises that districts depend on the general employment policy and conditions for businesses and new entrants in the districts. But it's when we get to the assumptions of these things that I'm stunning something. For several years, we have seen that the Workers' Party has resisted, for example, the shipping tax and the reimbursement system for seafarers for fighting. There are two things that mean a lot to the maritime industries and to workplaces along the coast. We can also point out that the Workers' Party was the father of the system of passenger charges on air travel, which has been an obstacle to many businesses in the districts. We can then go to the policy towards owners and innovators, where they want a poorer sharing model, and where they do not want to be involved in reducing the wealth tax. I would like to mention the conditions for small businesses, which would like to see relief in terms of conditions for overtime, temporary employment, VAT compensation schemes and competition for tenders for municipal services and distortions of competition there. We can look at the budget in the autumn, as the Workers' Party was involved in a policy that would result in increased sick pay for employers, not talking about what is really wanted by a large number of companies in the districts, that they, for example, cannot export fish using the telecommunications network, but must have ways to drive the fish forward in order to export it. Does not the representative, Mr Brustad, see that this policy creates problems for growth in private businesses and for jobs in the districts? When will the Workers' Party come forward and modernise its policy in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1341	The representative Ryssdal raised important questions, but it is impossible for me to answer all the questions he asked in a small reply. We could have had long discussions on each of these questions. I believe that regional and regional policy is one of the areas where the Labour Party and the Right in many ways distinguish layers in the choice of strategies. When the representative Ryssdal pulls forward, for example: The shipping tax, it gives me the opportunity to say that if we are going to get what we are discussing here today, it is important to have a better distribution policy, both when we are talking about municipalities and about the general policy we are pursuing. I believe that the shipping tax is a very bad example in order to achieve a better distribution policy. What we have seen through this Government and its choice of partners, the Right and the Advance Party, is that it has become a poorer distribution policy. We've actually got more right-hand policies. The challenge now facing the Government is: Who is it that the Government wants to cooperate with? Is there still the Right Party and the Progress Party, with a lower distribution policy and more right-wing policy as a result in this area as well? Or does it want to cooperate with the Labour Party and the Left side to get to something that I believe we actually agree on in many areas? Developments in rural policy in recent years have shown that the efforts made by the Labour Party, in particular with the support of other parties in this Chamber, have also resulted in regional policy. We can't pinch our fingers and decide where people are going to live, but I think that without this effort things had looked significantly different. I believe that the Labour Party and the Right here separate layers in the choice of instruments, and we will probably have plenty of opportunity to discuss this further in each case in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1355	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1358	The distribution from the Council of State was a lot of fine words, but little content. If we were to say that in the sports language, I might characterize it as five in style and zero in content – at least if one looks like it could wait for a new government council. It seems to me that if we just struggle around with honorary words, like district women's years, bets on youth, entrepreneurship in school, bets on the local environment, state jobs out to every village, then we'll be able to turn the moving stream. Haven't we heard these words before? After all, we have tried this many times – to strike around with fine words of honor, from various governments based on various parties. And do they have the works? No - the moving stream is there and will be there if one does not use some tools. And that's good with fine words and formulations and having good goals, but where are the tools? How does a decision on the years of District Women lead to women stopping in the countryside? How does a decision to bet on young people mean that they are in the countryside? How will decisions to bet on the local environment make people stay in Bygde-Noreg? The question is, what is it going to do to reverse the moving current? If we sum up the fine words that the Council of State read out, it's based on one thing, simply public and state governance, and I don't think that's the way to go. Does the Council believe that a decision to reverse the move stream can be made? Does the Council of State believe that the decision on the years of District Women is turning the current? And this with the youth, that one should bet on the youth to keep them in the countryside. The council says in its statement that he sees it as desirable that they leave. And if we're going to bet on youth, we have to bet on other schemes as well. So the question is, how are we going to be able to use all of Norway? At my discretion, the most important tool is to create freedom of choice for people, that businesses, businesses, businesses, youth, women, and even the entire population of Norway, have the freedom to live and work where they want to. I'll give the council one word of praise – it might be a little bit more, but okay. Unlike other central party people I've heard, there's almost not one word that testifies that one failed to live in Bygde-Noreg and said it was bad. The state council praised District Norway and said that there are qualities out in District Norway that make a part of us well to stay there before moving, and that's the first time I've heard a central government council that has spoken to him so he boasts of how good it is to live in District Norway. What surprises me is that the Council of State does not consider the most important tool one can use to possibly use the whole country, namely jobs. There is no use in either one or the other year, it does not benefit from either one or the other bet on different age groups if there are no jobs out in the district of Norway. And then you have to ask yourself, how are we going to get the business, the employers, the companies to decide to establish themselves and develop themselves close to the raw material, instead of establishing themselves and developing themselves close to the market, as we might see today? I believe that drug use is addressing tax policies towards businesses, addressing bureaucracy, which is a barrier especially for small and medium-sized enterprises which do not have the resources to address the red tape that hinders entry and prevent further development. Because what's happening today with the bureaucracy we have is that if not all the companies are broken, then at least most people get discouraged when it comes to continuing. And when you don't have the motivation to be there one is, well, then you don't end the moving stream. And so it is clear that future decisions cannot be made, it must be created. Workspaces must be created - one cannot accept jobs. One cannot decide that something should become such and such within the business community. The most important thing is then – to use the slogan of the Advance Party – to leave the values where they are created. If you are to create good and stable jobs, you have to be able to stand on your own, and then there are some arrangements for it. I can name one that the government council wasn't in, and another government council from another party has said we shouldn't bet so much on, though – even though the government parties promised to believe and honour that we would get 5 billion more on these during the four-year period. Now two years have passed of this four-year period, and we haven't seen as much as a penny of this billion yet. And then the question is what has become of these roadways, which are also important for business to establish itself, is to develop and create safe, good jobs in the district of Norway. We have a tax system like the blood sickness companies, which loses them for money, which means that they don't have the means to meet thrones and difficult times, which will always come. That's why I think a tool here is to make it possible for companies to set up funds, something they can't do today. Let me then take an area that the council would know a little bit about, that's the fishing fleet. And I'd like to ask what other companies in Norway than the fishing fleet have to tear down the farms every four years to rebuild them. It must be through the classification system for which Norsk Veritas is the inspector. There should only be no fishing fleet available. should have the ability to set aside funds to meet this classification that has to be taken every four years, whether it's good or bad times. Then you might not be able to bring in large amounts of taxes and taxes. One should be able to provide tax relief, so that businesses could spend money on funds to meet difficult times. Then it wouldn't be necessary for us politicians to charge taxes and taxes, and then sit here in this house and distribute it again as we find it for good. And what we usually do is we take from the good and profitable businesses and give to those who actually don't have the right to live, hoping that this will reverse the move stream, but it doesn't. State Council Sponheim also said that the form field would attack him. I haven't seen much of that attack yet. By and large, it has been a defense that he has not done anything. If he wants to reverse the movement current, it is important that he implements the only grip we have, simply to facilitate that businesses can create their own nutrient base, create the jobs that are necessary for us to use Norway as a whole, and that the people can live where they want it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1373	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1376	Representatives of the Group of the Progressive Alliance have stated that the response of local and state politicians to the poor budgetary situation is only sympathies and complaints. And I see it as the most coin in the small municipalities. What kind of offer is it the Progress Party believes can be cut in municipalities and county municipalities without it going beyond the inhabitants and leading to relocation and centralisation? I hope that the answer will not only be a repetition of the arguments on the outsourcing and privatisation. So I noticed that the representative from the Progress Party just said that the companies should get tax relief to operate in the districts, and that the values should stay where they are. But often we see that the problems of manpower and labour are, in fact, the greatest in the businesses operating in the districts. People don't want to live and work in the districts. What does the Progress Party think is the reason why this is a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1385	I understand that the representative Arnesen does not want me to repeat this with a boost to competition, because it is an action that he and the Labour Party do not want to participate in. But it has been shown to be profitable in some places where one has tried to reorganize municipal operations and set the level by industry, and perhaps has asked the question: Is it necessary for the public to produce all services? Why can't a competition stimulate this, so that you can buy municipal services for a cheaper money and actually provide a better supply? Then one will also be able to have money for other things. This may include: Arnesen takes hold of his own party and informs them that businesses in the districts need to have a chance of fund allocation in order to meet difficult times. So I also think that part of us who live in the districts must stop looking at how crazy and how hopeless it is to live in District Norway. Instead, maybe we who are trendmakers should try to tell you about all the quality that District Norway has – we quality who lives there, at least appreciate it. And if one of them had enough jobs at the same time, I'm surprised that many more people would have moved where there was a safe, good and safe workplace in a safe and healthy growing environment, instead of moving into cities, where it might not be so safe in the workplace, and where it might not be so good and safe growth conditions -- we might see that a little bit of that today. Could we just turn this hold, be a little bit neater – and that's where I gave praise to the government council, too, because here he turned a trend within his own party, and I hope that the rest of the Center Party listened well after when he actually tried to present the positive sides by bowing in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1392	I accept and respect that the Medicine of the Advance Party in District Policy is a completely different economic system, and that there will be a lot of taxes and taxes, and that it will solve the challenges. Now I might have thought, after the municipal committee was travelling in Chile, that some conclusions had been drawn on how the economy was when a country was governed by liberalist principles. But I am happy that the Progress Party says that the values should remain where they are created, and that all of Norway should be used. I am glad that it is said that the statement we received on 20 April had a good style, but I deeply disagree that it was not content. Doesn't adding to entrepreneurship mean anything to business? Does not cooperation between business and school mean anything? Doesn't it mean to suggest that small companies in District Norway can get apprentices, right? I would like to commend the Progress Party on the fact that, for the current year's budget, they have given their subsidiary support to the greatest increase in regional policy investment that we have seen in the 1990s. And my question is: when the Progress Party does not have an impact on its fiscal policy, can we continue to count on constructive support subsidized to bet in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1401	The representative of Østberg was happy, and I am happy that Østberg is happy. Again, Østberg drew out the fine words about entrepreneurship and so on, but he did not mention the type of tool to come with. It's not enough just to talk about entrepreneurship in school. I know what that means, because I've been in the district school and that part of it. But one is required to do a lot of work outside the labour market, so that jobs are created, that new jobs are developed within existing enterprises. The Council of State was concerned with being a raw material supplier, as Norway is on the fishing side. But I want to warn you that we might try to get so much on the processing side again that we forget about the raw material part. In spite of this, Norway's second largest export industry is fishing. And it's not that easy to start competing with the rest of the world on the processing side, so here we have to be on guard so we don't ruin a good nourishment in the hope that we turn this around. So, Østberg asks questions if we still want to support the government's efforts in the districts if we don't get through our tax policy. Yes, I must say that it was not with the light heart that we swallowed that camel there. I'm not going to advance what's going to happen at the budget line of the house, but so much can I say that we're probably not as easy to do as we were last fall. I think the camels should have a little less hair if they're to be swallowed to the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1412	The government's offensive district effort through the Council of State statement a few days ago has fallen the opposition heavily to the chest. And there was nothing else to wait for – it is the law of nature of politics. The criticism began with the representative Brustad from the Workers' Party, and was now followed up by the representative from the Progress Party. You have to listen when the opposition is talking. There is reason to take it seriously when Brustad, who was a member of a government that throughout her period had a continuous withdrawal from District Norway, now she believes she has seen the right grip to be taken. It culminated in the deportation from my part of the country, North Norway, which caused the Workers' Party in Troms to say that it was now time to make a district settlement. This I think it's important to bring with me, because it's also about having some political memory. With regard to the representative Solholm and others from the Progress Party, it is interesting to hear them. They're talking about a lack of credibility in the government's district policy. What is it really about the District Policy of the Advance Party, except, in general, that one should allow market forces to prevail? We know that the draft budget of the Progress Party contained tax reliefs in the order of NOK 28 billion. I think it is a little important that the representative of Solholm and the representatives of the Progress Party communicate to the municipalities, for example. means the municipal economy, the county economy, etc. My question is simply that I am asking Solholm to comment on my claim that his policy is relatively little at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1423	It's just the center part that uses the handles, and that's why there's so little that comes with it. We in the Progress Party usually have spade, and that's why we get most of it with us. I'm a little bit in doubt if I should leave this reply to Sylvia Brustad, because I have the impression that Tor Nymo is essentially talking about the Workers' Party until the last 30 seconds, when he concentrated a little bit on the Progress Party. For me, politics is doing something, and not necessarily talking to a lot of new, nice words without bringing tools. And it could be tempting to ask a counter-question: Has the removal current been reduced or reversed under the centre party leadership of the Ministry of Local Affairs for two years? The answer is no. And tax relief does not go beyond the municipalities. If Tor Nymo had read the rest of our draft budget, where we suggest that the state should take over the financial responsibility for health, care and education, he would see that we are able to give the tax burden that lies in our budget, without going beyond the municipal economy. At the same time, we will give business, our businesses in the districts, the ability to stand on our own, create new jobs, secure the jobs that are there, and make it attractive for people to move into the districts to live and work there. Then we had a district policy that worked. Now we've tried this big effort to collect taxes and taxes in a big monn, and then we sit here in the house, after the Oslo administration has spent millions of dollars, to figure out where we're going to distribute them again. If we had left the money directly where they were created, we would have had a completely different situation and would have been able to make the contribution that is needed to turn the moving current around.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1434	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1437	On Tuesday 20 April, on the same day as Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, Enoxsen, made his statement on regional and regional policy for the Stortinget, the newspaper Nations reported: ‘Solid support for the districts’. More than 80 pst. believes that transfers to districts should be increased or at the same level as today, according to a study of Feedback Research. Nearer 65 pst. believes that the transfers contribute to some, large or very much to de-mobilisation and help to stop centralisation. Moving is natural. Mobility is natural. Research has shown that only about 50 pst. of the women in the country who have a permanent residence in the municipality where the parents lived when she was born. The problems of moving are not new, the Norwegian people have always moved. What is happening today is that the traditional birth surplus in the districts has disappeared. The birth surplus is currently in the press areas. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government of Bondevik's goals of slowing down, stopping and turning the movement flow have massive support in the population, through the solid support for the government's policy as the study showed. Turning the movement flow is a formidable task that will take time, but it is absolutely necessary both to reduce the pressure problems in the Oslo area and other press areas and to achieve the goal of maintaining the main pattern of settlement in the country. If mainland Norway is to maintain and preferably increase the formidable value creation that takes place in District Norway to the delight of the whole country, we are dependent on achieving this housing goal. I would like to underline three issues that the Council of State took up in its statement, in order for us to succeed. First of all, it is the localization policy of the state. It is important that the Government will work to ensure that government tasks covering a national market are increasingly located outside Oslo. There are many good examples of successful location, such as the Stavanger Oil Directorate, the Brønnøsund Registers, the Kirkenes Register of Contributions, and not least the Tromsø Polar Institute, to name a few. At the location in Tromsø, the Polar Institute has received great international attention and interest. The Foundation currently has higher academic research competence than ever before, not least because of its location. As important as the relocation and relocation of state activities in District Norway, the Government’s proposal and discussion of the principles for managing the reorganisation and efficiency of nation-wide state agencies and establishments are local and regional. The Christian People's Party agrees that state businesses must assume joint responsibility for conversion problems they leave behind in small district municipalities and, if necessary, contribute with means of conversion. Secondly, I would like to point out the commitment to skills development as a strategy. Without skilled jobs for women and attractive jobs for young people, so that they can move back after completion of education, we will not be able to achieve the goal of turning the flow of moving. The government has launched or plans more exciting measures. The interest is high for business gardening. They can be crucial for the establishment and development of knowledge-based enterprises in districts. The plans for a new programme, ‘SMB student’, are very important for the development of cooperation between business and educational institutions. Thirdly and finally, the government's commitment to the Nord-Norway Committee is important. Problems such as Murmansk Corridor, Fish, Agriculture and IT are important for the region and will be discussed in the Church's 30 June. The Barents region is important not only for the nation, but for the nation as a whole. However, most importantly for the region, the completion of the higher education institutions and the University of Tromsø and a rapid start to construction at a national telemedicine centre are likely.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1461	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1464	The representative, Ivar Østberg, takes up the country’s location in his post, with the background that it should preferably be moved out of Oslo. Among other things, I have Notice that on Friday 23 April there is an article that says that ‘Krf alerts new mover’. The representative of Østberg has been the leader of a sample that has looked at this idea and has chosen to be concrete, it is claimed. They believe that, among other things: major parts of the Arctic activities of the Meteorological Institute should be moved to North Norway, and some of them question precisely the specific proposal, because it is already clear that the Arctic and polar activities should be operated from Tromsø. It is also a proposal that the Fisheries Directorate, with almost 200 bureaucrats, should move northwards, and they are in Bergen. So my question is: is it that it is not just from Oslo that it is to be moved, but that it can also from other large areas outside Oslo – whether it is Trondheim or Bergen – become relevant with moving?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1473	This is about countering centralisation trends, pressures in our press areas. When it comes to the specific question of moving it not only from Oslo, I belong to those who believe that the other press areas too can be good to move out of. As I mentioned in my post, we have had a number of successful emigrations. Some of the first people who moved out, and I didn't pick up, were Norwegian Tipping AS, who moved to Hamar in their time. They didn't think it was possible, but it's possible to move out of the press areas in many places. The Fisheries Directorate has been proposed to move before, and it would be a natural institution to add the region that is totally dependent on fish, namely North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1478	District policy without transport policy and fiscal policy becomes meaningless. Reducing distance constraints has been identified as an important area of activity for both businesses and residents of rural areas. But the government parties are doing everything they can to maximise the distance disadvantages rather than reduce them for people living in the districts, who are often totally dependent on road and car use. At the same time as budgeting would be cut to standard, we have seen to it that we have to deal with the world’s highest transport costs here in Norway. And in Norway — in this long-term country — transport costs represent large sums. The Norwegian taxes on both car and fuel are unparalleled on this land. Lower transport costs would be good support for businesses, individuals and others who depend on being able to move over long distances, which they would like to do daily. Is it not the case that lower transport costs can be a good tool to reduce distance disadvantages in our long-term country? Then I am not just thinking about marginal freight smoothing but there must be an easy charge on the car and fuel for a car that really monks. Does the government really believe that these crazy taxes on transportation are for the benefit of the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1485	It's possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. In the case of fuel charges, it also has to do with the environment. And if I haven't perceived the Progress Party wrong, they've just become spokespersons so the polluter should pay the value. Therefore, it is reasonable that there are environmental taxes on fuel. It's not without meaning to the districts that government parties went in for a freight balancing, so that the cost of fuel would be equal across the country. It's the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1490	The representative of Østberg, in a previous reply, ordered Bergen to be a press area and that the city has too many government jobs. I think it is a statement that has certain problems with the participa tion of Eastberg, rapporteur Ingmar Liones in Bergen. But my line goes on a different relationship. At the 1997 national meeting, the Christian People's Party adopted an opinion on viable and diverse communities. The last section is devoted to transport issues, and it is called inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Christian People’s Party considers road development in the districts to be important for the settlement and must therefore be given priority. The highways need to be upgraded with fixed road surface and 10 tonnes of axle load in order to strengthen business. It is necessary to increase the appropriations for the correction of raspberries. There is also a need for a power take-off to repair the county roads.’» This was in 1997, and now the Christian People's Party has been at the head of a government that has presented two budgets that are far from meeting these objectives, which also the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party were united in the proposal for a road map two years ago. Now, to the Christian People's Party, the Council of State for Transport has received, and it is natural to ask, how many years does the representative of Østberg see that it will take to fulfil the wish for a fixed road surface and ten tons of axle loads on the highways?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1504	The objective of economic policy must be that we can pursue a policy that will reduce interest rates. This will mean a tight economic policy. As far as I am aware, the Right has been, to a very great extent, a follower of such a policy. That means that what we can get from statements over the public, needs to be strongly prioritised. The Christian People's Party thinks exactly the same as in 1997 about the importance of road release in districts, ensuring dangerous sections of traffic and racial roads and road safety, but I cannot here and now respond to a concrete year when these objectives will be achieved. It will depend entirely on economic development not only in our own country, but also around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1509	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1512	We have all given our spontaneous comments to the media before – i.e.. The same day the distribution was held. For our part, then, we have registered a retreat from very offensive and unrealistic goals of district policy, which has been flagged high in the past. This applies both to the objective of maintaining the population in all municipalities, to the high level of ambition for the relocation of state jobs and to the high expectations of the local economy. We have said that the government should now go into the long-term trending patterns of relocation and population development in Norway and make a thorough review of real long-term goals and instruments of district policy. Of course, we are some with the state council in that formerly a birth surplus in the districts has led to a reduction in the impact on moving currents to central strokes. District Norway's birth surplus is now disappearing, and forecasts indicate a situation of birth defects in the future. We believe that this requires a more targeted effort in relation to the use of the instrument. And the Right also suggests that the tool is being lubricated a little too thinly, and that the Government has not done the necessary critical review of the policy. On the other hand, we see that the Minister's presentation is characterized by symbolic projects that accommodate holding creation and seminary. The right has no signal of real and drastic simplification of legislation related to the operation and establishment of jobs. We also found it very disappointing that investment in the road sector is totally absent from this distribution. With us in the Right, however, there is limited urgency to conduct this kind of debate especially far, precisely because the Government's thoughts are relatively little concrete. Only when the budget proposals are on the table will we see the priorities and not least the dimensions of the actions. Nevertheless, the main impression is that there should be policies of most. We've been joking about these positive agents and all these vague ideas about marketing District Norway. Let it also be said here that the centre party should not have a monopoly on the interpretation of rural culture in this country and the assessments of motivational factors related to living standards and quality of life. Personally, I see a Secretary of State and a local, preferably imported, food manager together with a positive agent to launch a seminar on how valuable and nice it is to bou e.g. the City of City, where the participants and the listeners to this embassy have bid all their days. These quadruples can get hollow, if not directly ridiculous. A little bit different, of course, will stand out for a potential urban emigration that might have to be effective in being district-built. But if I don't remember errors, these have been targets for campaigns before. Our prescription and our penance to our central politicians have over time been simpler and cheaper. It's been like this: Stop looking and ending with the misery description. So maybe half the marketing will be done. So now it looks like we've at least reached the government with this simple embassy. The distribution also starts by addressing the question of the level of education of the population beyond the country, the willingness of district youth to take up education and then return, and the lack of jobs for highly skilled people in the districts. The government's desire and ambition to deal with this in small amounts from the ministry is probably too large. It may be in macro and national terms that politicians can have the greatest impact on this – let's call it – the nymology concept, called ‘mismatch’, the relationship between the available and the real need for skills, precisely because rapid shifts in needs contrast to phase shifts in education in time. I also refer here to the Minister's own reference of 50 pst. Business change in a l0 year, and let's make it clear that of course we don't know what 50 pst. We'll talk about it. The most interesting thing about distribution in this field is the idea of SMB students. This seems attractive, a reasonable simple marketing measure with a likely chance of a two-sided gain from the start. Such a debate as this one will, of course, try out old and possibly new interface areas between the parties in the district policy. We have to confirm that the centre party still believes in making policy out of it the most – as I have said. How much localized public jobs there have to say for the construction in Norway, but there is still plenty of space available. The need for reduced distance disadvantages in industry seems to be being tied up with modern information technology. And the classic priority that we've been given to in the road map documents, if extra opportunities for road access, are totally absent from this distribution. Nevertheless, it is a fact that dry fish and fresh fish, juice and jam, steel and stone cannot easily be developed over e-mail and IT lines. Our point is that the classic emergence is decisive for business today as well. This is clearly documented by recent business reports. Not all the efficiency is of the evil, says the minister roughly. Maybe we should interpret this as a rhetorical progress from the center government? Our claim is that efficiency is largely of the good, and we believe that there is a great deal of responsibility in the practical policies of the government party when they refrain from efficiency measures where there is a screaming need for action in the district policy. As a conclusion, I would like to remind you of a recent debate on transport, where the centre still cannot be influenced to launch and streamline the national road haulage network in order to provide concrete, regional policy-relevant assistance to districts that are just emerging. In practice, there is very little progress to be traced, but then we will look at the budgetary proposals when they arrive, where the priorities and not least the dimensioning of the various measures will be highlighted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1540	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1544	Right wants a different device for district policy than the Workers' Party. On the right, public regional aid funds will be transferred to road investments and better business environment. The right considers that profitable jobs and good communications are the key to positive development in the districts. The right also believes that there is an income potential in Kommune-Norway of between 10 and 15 billion kroner only the municipalities are postponing competition or privatising municipal services. That's an incredible amount of money. So my first question is, how are the small district municipalities, which we have a lot of here in the country, going to get out this income potential when there's no one to compete with? The right was not willing to contribute to the distribution of DKK 1 billion between the tax and tax-free municipalities, as proposed by the Workers' Party in 1999. Once again, the majority of the population goes beyond districts with scattered settlements. And there was no more money for road appropriations for 1999, as the Right now so strongly emphasises that they want to. What became more of it was public district support programmes, which is what the Right says they are against. The right was passed to zero the tax increases proposed by the Government. But does the representative, Mr Hoddevik, really believe that if the kindergartens do not exist, the school leisure system is not there or costs disproportionately much to use, or that the primary school is laid down, and that public communication is absent, is it nevertheless attractive to live in the municipalities? I would also like to ask the representative, especially given that the right is so concerned that the road sector has not received anything, and that it has only been made with the good promises: Does the Right believe that there is no link between good welfare arrangements, stable housing and business start-ups?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1555	I'm going to try to take some of the questions, and I'm going to start by thanking you for a reasonably good list of good suggestions that we've been dealing with, and I can only acknowledge most of what was said. But I don't want to lower the level of ambition on our part to achieve something with a competitive start. How many billions can be able to take out in the first round, will be allowed to be a little bit more precise here, but we want a development. What has been the problem of local authorities’ release of power — small or large — is that local society’s power factors have prevented the process from starting. We haven't even had the chance to explore in particular – at least not in District Norway – what the limits are for what it's possible to take out. If you were willing to try one, you would also be able to measure out the result. But here's the bend that strong organizations have a useful well-developed strategy to prevent trials. Of course, we have to admit that our principal proposal did not get through in the state budget. Of course. There was a much smaller separation than we had proposed. Rightly, certain things came to rejoice through committee treatment at least, so that it didn't become zero at all, but we believe that a simpler society, a slightly reduced public sector, good framework conditions for business, less formalities and good communications will help. We're on it. We will be aware of this in future proposals as well, without having to advance details here and now in the Right's principal draft budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1564	The representative Hoddevik called for long-termity in his post, he called for signals about regulation and the establishment of jobs, and he thought the Council of State had been too little concrete in its presentation. Both I and the representative Hoddevik are resident in each of our districts and should thus be able to see the challenges of district policy. The centre party is very concerned about what we call the broad district policy, that it is crucial for growth and development throughout the country. By doing so, we believe to point out how everything is going on, that a person may need to have a framework that promotes regional policy development more than directly specific small measures. My county, Nordland, has enormous natural resources, including: force, fish and minerals, and now I have three questions for Mr. Hoddevik. The first is: Does Hoddevik agree with the Central Party that districts should be given greater power over nature and its resources? My second question is whether he can support the view that districts should retain more of the value creation that takes place on the basis of these resources. Finally, I would like to challenge Mr Hoddevik's representative on the question of whether they will also be working towards a profitable location of the power-based industry near the power production site, as is usual in Europe. With that, we save investment for maintenance costs on several long transmission lines, and not least I would like to remind you of the main network principle, which says that whoever takes power out of production lines, which reduces grid losses, should be rewarded for it. The representative Mr Hoddevik himself referred to the issue of efficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1577	I'll try to answer a big question in terms of content. There were three specific questions that were specifically asked for an answer. I get to say it so that it asks in what way you're going to let the districts retain the value creation. We thought it was a point that companies in District Norway should not give up their incomes to the state in the hope of getting them back, or see that the neighbor gets them back. We see it as that if we tax business less, and let those who produce the values keep more of them, then it's a good way to keep the value creation in the districts. Then there was a point with the power-consuming industry, but it links up with the energy policy in general. My answer to this question must be that if we have a sensible energy policy, where the power-intensive industry in the districts is still getting access to reasonable power, then it is good district policy. I don't know if we're going to expand this to go concretely on gas power or coal power, but at least there's one way to answer it. My main answer to the replicator is that our view is that the values should be left in the districts, but the prescription to get this to is hardly the same as the central party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1588	First I want to make an announcement. The right has a strong corporate district policy. It's easy to understand. But then it becomes particularly noticeable that neither school nor competence nor research is mentioned in the paper. Does that mean that this has become less important to the Right? If the Right still considers this to be important, does the Right want to have a district profile on such a commitment to empowerment at school and in research? So to the second question: Enterprise-oriented district policy is the Right Label. Then you can ask yourself, ‘How, then, should you go about supporting, subsidising or organising? ’ The strong impression is that the right is primarily occupied by the companies that are already doing well. For tax relief policies in relation to individual industries, e.g.: they are able to go very far, while in the case of direct enterprise-oriented measures to enterprises that have not even started up yet, but need help, there is a significant increase in greed. Wouldn't it have been better to have had a much stronger corporate creation policy, since it's where you actually need help to get started, and then be willing to say that the companies that are actually doing well should have their backbone to join in the load? And finally, if right-wing fiscal policy in relation to businesses is to have a district profile, can Mr Hoddevik explain how this fiscal policy should be based on such a district profile?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1597	It was to the extent that a very correct point was that school could be easier to find in my post, but I asked the representative to write it in the account for a bad post and not for a bad policy from Right. I'll be allowed to stress that we've just had a country meeting where we've spent a lot of time explaining why we're going to create the world's best school in this country. So it's definitely not right there's something wrong with in the case, it's one and only my post that then has our error priority. In our political workshop, to which I have just referred, I can promise the representatives that research also had a wide space. So to this, maybe we're prioritizing companies that are doing well, in our policies. In any case, we are forced to have some companies that are doing well, because button shooting is usually done by companies that are doing well. I understand that a little is being directed towards our view of the tool tool, and I would like to point out that the seed chapter and the founder's angle in the SND have had Right as a father. On the other hand, that part of the machine tool that is more comparable to ordinary banking has been given a lower priority by us. We mean that our prescription is useful. It's not the recipe of our political competitors, but we thought we'd try to sell our policies in this area. To get back to school, it's immeasurably important. Now I was dealing with this with competence in the article, but still, school policy – for all things.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1606	Several have not asked for the word to appear
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1609	I will first start by addressing the proposals that are distributed. There is no one or two grip that is sufficient for us who want a good district policy. For those who want a centralisation policy, it is much easier. They can invest in more market management and privatisation and less in the public sector, and so far that job is done. There's a lot of people working in that ladder. I have three main criticisms against the presentation by the Council of State. The first, and perhaps the most important, is that the local economy as a support block in the districts was not mentioned. It's narrowhan's now. An ECON report shows that municipalities now have the worst results since the late 1980s. The municipal sector, both as a factor for living conditions and quality of life and as the main infrastructure for business, was completely absent. Is it a signal from the Government? The second main criticism is that the competence strategy is too narrow. I'll come back to that. The third, which is also important, is that unfortunately many of the good words lack trustworthiness because one does not seek political power against a majority that could have realized them. On the contrary, you always apply with those who want less of what the Center Party and the Government say they want more. For SV, education policy is very important. Education is the most important strategic tool, both to give the individual more power over their lives and to allow different parts of the country to develop and exploit their resources. Because it's people who are the most important resource. Higher education, decentralised higher education and research must therefore be a support. This bet has to be heavy. It has to be decentralised in its being, and it cannot be squandered on already syllables of higher education budgets and fed with research funds in line with the official Norwegian standard. If we say this is future, we have to do this job properly. If we believe that competence development is the most important district developer, we must make sure that this effort comes first and foremost in the districts. So to the other point that goes on municipal economy. The local economy is in well-being, but it also focuses on the infrastructure of business. I think that is underestimated in all debates on industrial policy. It would have been good if we had been able to get some signals from the Government if they still see an increase in the more specific efforts on the narrow district policy, as they have succeeded with their partners now, and if they are willing to let the municipal sector still go on austerity, as they have done in the last two years. Then to the suggestions. In particular, I want to address what is going on in the decentralization of power. SV proposes an attempt to effectively decentralise power over instruments of district policy and to see it in the context of instruments of the labour market seat. We have formulated similar proposals before, and they have been voted down. But these are important suggestions for the districts to sail from local bet areas to have the freedom to spend the money where the shoe prints the most. Suggestions have been made on welfare consultants and on profiling bets, etc., and much of this is well and good. Some people even want to go to work in such detail that they need a grant to maintain out-of-court shops. From the SV's point of view, there is a need to give much more room to put such different wishes into framework appropriations, and to allow the local units, whether local authorities, regional councils or county councils, to spend money where the shoe prints the most. If it's the school that needs bets, then let them spend money on it. If it's business that needs to bet, then let them spend money on it. If the road is missing, let the locals decide that the money will be spent on it. I believe that this new division of responsibilities will provide completely new and much better results from our district effort.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1630	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1635	Representative Andersen talked about the school being a betting area in District Norway. The question I want to ask the representative is whether SV is willing to use a tool that allows the schools in District Norway to compete with other schools to obtain the learning skills and the good learning skills. One of the tools that can be used is a differentiated teacher's wages. Then there is a need for each municipality, each school, to take advantage of the possibility that one has seen of working in the area of nurses/assistant nurses in the district of Norway, where some municipalities have gone beyond the usual tariffs to get nurses and caregivers, and that has worked. There is one of the questions: is SV willing to use the tool that can lead to a strengthening of the school in Utkant-Noreg? Another thing that SV talk about in order to strengthen the districts is going on with infrastructure and communications. But I have experienced that SV is in favour of all major road projects that can facilitate communications in District Norway, with the exception of a project on North Cape, FATIMA, where there is now an excess of 50 pst. As a percentage, Åsgard-saka is over, but SV was one of the foremost to get that project in place. Will SV now turn around a little bit and be involved in providing good communication to the districts by opening up one so that we can get more means of transport than we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1642	If you're going to have a strategy to get good teachers to compete, you're going to have to accept that someone is going to have bad teachers and bad schools, and others are going to have good teachers and good schools. Those who want good teachers and good schools are those who have great financial resources. It's a starting point that SV is not willing to accept. The school that is not good enough for all students is not good enough for anyone. The teacher who is not good enough to teach in a good school is not good enough to teach in any school. For my own part, I can say that I am not free from the idea that it might be right to judge by effort, but then I want you to reward after the effort has been made, and not before it comes, not to lure you into high wages in the belief that you get the best labour force. If you go through some recruitment projects to see if it's turned on, I don't think that experience has been so that it's necessarily the ones that value themselves the highest on the market, that do the best job. So competition for the teaching powers as a tool for getting a good school doesn't think we're the way to go. This is about providing resources, so that the school can be good enough to improve teacher training, and give the teacher and school space to develop good teaching methods across a far wider range than we have today. So to the road sector. It is true that SV has been more restrictive in terms of road appropriations than, for example: The party of progress. There are probably also individual projects that I could say were perhaps not of the wisest to go in for. In retrospect, it has been found that many road projects, including those for which the Progress Party has joined, have had very large exceedances. SV has had a different profile of its transport policy than the Progress Party – and I ask the representative Solholm to note that we have gone against major projects in key areas that have also eaten from the financial resources.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1652	The municipal economy is presented as a key pillar of the district policy by the representative Andersen of SV. The party will strengthen the local economy, so that – as I can understand it – it is possible to employ even more people in public administration or public services. This will help to create jobs outside the municipalities. In some district municipalities it is today that almost a majority of the employed have their work in the municipality. Would it not be better to pursue a general economic policy with regard to taxes and taxes, which facilitate the establishment of competitive businesses in rural areas, rather than bet on jobs in the sheltered public sector, as SV seems to want? Does SV really believe that decentralisation of state location is creating economic growth for the towns? SV operates according to my vision of counting heads. What the countryside needs is economic growth, and we have to stop being fixed to count how many people there are in the countryside. Is not economic growth in the districts, with competitive jobs, a better district policy than public jobs in the sheltered sector, as SV seems to think?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1657	Economic growth in the districts can probably be good and good, and what I think it's right to have a policy for is to bring back some of the values that are actually created in the districts to the districts. However, with regard to the general fiscal instruments addressed by the Progress Party and the right-hand side of Norwegian policy, the better situation for districts in particular will not be the case. On the contrary, the more liberalism in this area will also strengthen those who are already strong, and increase their competitiveness even more at the expense of small enterprises on the edge that may not have the same economic performance but that are now going around usefully — perhaps sometimes with some public assistance. So if you're going to use a purely tax-free policy and a clean market strategy for this, centralisation will only intensify. For those who don't think of it as a problem, it's pretty good. But for us who actually believe that Norway as a whole should be used, and that we should use all the resources across the country, this becomes problematic. If you have a strategy that says that capital should be wasted just as much, whether you invest it in Engerdal or you invest it in Hong Kong – and I see that as the strategy of the Progress Party – we will experience that Utkant-Norway and the districts in general become empty. In Norway, despite the fact that there are a lot of good resources there, there are many qualities in the living conditions, and that the big community actually needs these resources to be exploited. So it's a very short-term policy, and it's a policy that, if you're going to draw it a little far, will make it almost uninhabitable in a country like Norway, except at a few simple points on the coast where you can take advantage of the special natural advantages of a location right there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1662	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1665	The report by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs shows that the Government has a cohesive and offensive grip on district policy. It's at the same time a settlement with some mythologies. Still, a view of presumptuously intelligent people can argue that district policy is about subsidising unprofitable businesses and industries, maintaining societies in which people do not want to live, or forcing people to live a way of life that belongs to the past. Of course it's not like that. The government underlines the opposite of the need for freedom of choice, conversion and innovation. We are entering into a social development where the individual's freedom of choice will be even more obvious, and no policy can fail to deal with it. District and regional policies are about developing Norway further into a new era. The value creation has spread. The residence is based on value creation, and it cannot be maintained across future value creation. In the evening post yesterday, we could read that the Oslo schools need 10 billion kroner of investment only on the building mass for the next ten years. The basis is what is called a ‘massive increase in Oslo’s pupils — with 16,000 new places in primary and secondary schools. When one also takes into account developments in the housing market and pollution problems in the Oslo area, the disadvantages of a distorted regional development in the country are evident. The instruments of district policy are the same as in ordinary policy: knowledge development, research, entrepreneurship, cultural policy, welfare services. It is very positive that the Government is fully committed to this and emphasises that regional considerations should be taken into account in all sectoral areas. Very much of the country's value creation takes place along the coast, in many different industries. It is based on natural resources, but also on creativity, knowledge and technology. Møre and Romsdal are one of the most valued states, measured in exports. At the same time, it is among the counties that have the fewest state jobs. There is no law of nature that it is like this. It's e.g. not of course that an establishment such as the Coastal Directorate should be located in Oslo. The eel sound should be a natural location for an establishment to serve Coast Norway. Ålesund and the surrounding region have the environment and everything that is needed for a coastal directorate to function well, and we have many such examples around the country. Societal changes are rapid and it is not possible to maintain everything that has happened before. Only those societies that have their own growth power, and that can offer modern people the demands of good life, will survive. I agree with the Council of State that the prerequisites for good life can be found in many places, and that there is reason for optimism on behalf of the districts. It is assumed that a balanced regional policy will support the building forces throughout the country. This means, among other things: the intensification of research efforts is also aimed at increasing skills and innovation in different industries, districts and regions. The concept of cash support may be extended to cover public aid for research and development in enterprises and industries that have so far been too weak in this area. This is a typical example of a good match between the interests of enterprises and the needs of the community. It is particularly important in the many internationally oriented enterprises located along the Norwegian coast. Innovation is also building on what is invested and created before. School is a crucial instrument in future value creation. Founder culture must be cultivated. Students need to gain a much higher understanding of the business and opportunities of the community and the region. In many places today, there is a marked imbalance between school and business locally. The advisory function has to be significantly upgraded. One cannot expect that the ordinary teacher, without personal experience from work other than school, will be able to provide students with the necessary insights into business and employment outside school. Similarly, closer links need to be established between students and businesses, such as state councils. refers to in the review of «SMB Student». I have otherwise noted the reference made by the Council of State to future changes in the geographical breakdown of the employer’s fee. It's high time it was revised. In parts of the country today there are unnatural and illogical divisions. Major labour market regions need to be seen here as a whole. The left is behind the government’s policy based on a simpler and innovative Norway. This is a comprehensive policy for the design of tomorrow’s Norway, with regional considerations being a common denominator for the entire government’s policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1697	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1700	I was so lucky that I got a meeting with the representative Leif Helge Kongshaug in the election campaign in 1997 in front of the big shot. Then one of the major district initiatives was to be means of road transport, and Kongshaug, like his political friends in the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, traveled around and promised money for all possible major road projects in More and Rome's valley, guaranteed for the four-year period 1997-2001. Now we are in the situation that the left has also had road councils for 1 1⁄2 years. And it was promised that if the three central comrades came to power, we would get $5 billion more for means of travel than the government of Jagland provided. So far, when we're about to write in May 1999, we haven't got a penny of these five billion, even the Council of State Dørum both in the 1997 debate on the budget for transport and in the 1998 debate on the budget for transport said from the Chair – to questions from me and others – that the objective is clear: 5 billion kroner would come in the course of the four-year period. And then the question that Kongshaug's representative should answer is, when can we expect to start getting any of these five billion? Now we have two years left, and if we were to distribute it the same way, we would have to get two and a half billion in 2000 and two and a half billion in 2001. It might be interesting to get an answer to the question: how much money can we now expect that we get – or is it completely right when it comes to these five billions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1711	I must be allowed to say again that in the election campaign in 1997, I was so lucky to meet Lodve Solholm, and we had many good debates, including there. The road stood central. In our state, More and Romesdal, we know that the way is something that people are concerned about, including the elected ones, among others. More and Romsdal County. Now I have some doubts about what Lodve Solholm said, that the undersigned went around and promised money for many individual projects. It was said, I suppose, according to the priority that More and Romsdal County themselves have done. We've been in the county ourselves before and prioritized, and that's the priority that underlies. But I agree with the representative of Solholm that if the ambitious road plans that lie in More and Romesdal and elsewhere in the country are to be implemented, more money will need to be allocated to the road sector. But now it is also such that in the economic situation of the state budget for both the last and the current year there was a need for tightness. In terms of road, such as infrastructure, it has been a common tool for economic fluctuations that a person has reduced road appropriations in order to have a necessary tightness in the budget. But at least one thing we have to agree with Lodve Solholm, there is more money to go. We have many examples around the country of national road standards, including: gravel roads - does not allow export-oriented and value-creating businesses to obtain their products. Unfortunately, I cannot stand on the platform here and promise exact numbers, but if it is up to me, it must at least be worked to increase road appropriations, because it is absolutely necessary for the districts to survive.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1720	First, to the previous line exchange. The representative of Kongshaug claimed that road investment is the best thing to do in periods of low economic activity, rather than in times of pressure. But the election campaign in 1997 was just a election campaign at a time when Norway was on turbot and the economy went high, where the representative of Kongshaug obviously thought it was right to promise large road appropriations for the next four years. This is not related. In the introductory part of his speech, the representative Kongshaug addressed presumptuously intelligent people who do not have a sense of district policy. It is possible that there was a general test at the national meeting in the Left to be for the weekend, for he has there a worthy opponent in fiscal spokesman Terje Johansen, who said to the Nation on 11 December 1997: ‘The districts are favored, and I'm tired of special care. I don't want one-sided extra bet to make people live in outskirts Norway." So Johansen is a member of the Financial Committee for the Left, and matters of great importance for the districts are decided. Lars Sponheim, who was there during the previous period, said at Odelstinget in 1994 in a debate on whether VAT compensation should apply in general to public tenders: ‘It is not new that there are major differences between socialist and bourgeois parties in view of this. The new thing is, the Center Party has changed sides. It is an interesting signal to the small businesses around the districts.’ What has happened since that time is that the left has been in government. Last year this matter of VAT compensation, which is an important matter for small businesses, was raised again, and the left voted against. They have also done so now in other cases, such as the embellishment of the Working Environment Act, not least for small businesses in More and Romesdal. The question to Kongshaug is: is there any hope that the Left will find old and good paces in terms of attitude towards small businesses and roads, or can we give up the party during this period?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1741	As far as election campaigns are concerned, most people in this room have been involved in many of these, but I don't think many in this room can give me examples that they have been running election campaigns on the grounds that there is a need for cuts in public expenditure when they have traveled around in their counties and driven election campaigns – also in the case of roads. The election campaign is based on a normal situation, and when there is a need for tightening up, it is clear that it hurts. It also hurts in relation to what has been said to sank voices around. With regard to business and framework conditions, and Terje Johansen, who the representative Ryssdal was in here, I can't go into all of that. What is clear, however, is that the industrial policy pursued by this government has a clear objective of improving the framework conditions for business in general, and especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. We have already seen concrete examples of this through the cases dealt with in communications and through concrete proposals and decisions in relation to the budget. Otherwise, we can also refer to the fisheries policy that this government is conducting. It has softened many regulations, which have created optimism for the renewal of fishing vessels, which are also important in the territorial context. With regard to the industrial policy and the small business policy of the Left, it is absolutely in place. But it should be unnecessary to remind the representative that the Left is part of a government. It's the Voksenå Declaration that underpins the government's policy, and then one gets to fight internally for the best ability for the things that you're most eager for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1750	I feel the need to challenge the Left a little bit about the issue of decentralization. Transport policy has been mentioned here, and it is a very important topic. It may be road, but it may also be public transport, it may be trains, and it may be air transport. On several occasions, proposals have been made for greater local political freedom to use funds across the transport sector. If I take an example from my own state, which is both a road and rail state, where maritime transport and air transport are not particularly relevant, where we are also affected by large heavy-duty transport which is very heavy on the road, and which requires a high axle load, then one of the challenges is now to try first to keep heavy-duty transport, but then to get more of it on the rail, so that it does not force large and increasing investments on the road side as well. I am convinced that such choices would be made in terms of both districts, road safety, the environment, etc. – I have at least as much confidence in the decisions that will be made locally in this area as I have in the decisions that are taken here in Stortinget. I would like to ask the representative of Kongshaug if he does not believe that by decentralizing such decisions, we could get the right transport investment in regions and counties. I can play a little bit with the thought experiment that we had done it this way in Finmark. Do we think that it was the FATIMA project that had been selected, if Finnmark had had the choice between spending money on their second highway and county road network and spending money on that particular road investment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1759	As far as Karin Andersen's notion of local political freedom is concerned, in principle I agree with that. We can stand shoulder to shoulder and fight for that. What she took up in her post, I thought was positive. It is clear that we must have the confidence in local or regional elected representatives that they are making the right priorities. It's an expression that says it knows best where the shoe prints it. I think that, among other things, by providing framework appropriations, merge e.g.: allocations to state roads and highways in some counties and giving priority to local politicians can be better prioritised than by having the split schemes that you currently have. In the road sector, the Storting largely follows the priorities of the individual counties — the annual priorities of the counties — although the Stortinge takes the final decision formally. When it comes to the question of decentralisation of decisions in a reasonable way, I can answer an unconditionally yes to it. I think it is positive, but we must not forget that there are some central and national tasks that need to be taken into account, and those decisions must lie at this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1771	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1774	The local and regional minister’s regional policy statement to the Stortingen a week ago was long, with many words and very good situational description. But it was little new, and there were no new proposals for instruments. The presentation was also marked by the former life of the Council of State as a business politician. Nevertheless, it is alarming that the impact of the local economy in the district of Norway is being slowed down as much as it was done here. Or is this a signal that the Central Party is no longer a party that believes that a good local economy is a significant tool for maintaining welfare offers, and therefore the settlement, in the districts? In that case, it is interesting in front of the municipality of the autumn. The Labour Party believes that solid local economy and high labour market activity are important factors in ensuring housing and business development in rural areas. The government cannot disclaim the responsibility that last year the municipalities had the worst municipal economy since 1986. Then there will be fewer, not more, jobs in the municipalities. Bad finances also mean that municipalities are not given priority to new measures and important basic investments to reverse negative developments. And then it's not so much free from the sitting government to say that the promises of more money to the municipalities are partially fulfilled, as shown by the VG on Wednesday 14 October last year. In addition, we know that the movement flow from the districts continues, that 8 500 more moved from the districts to the cities than in the opposite direction in 1998, and that the decline in pig-grown areas is the greatest. This, of course, further reinforces the poor municipal economy in these municipalities. The government will invest in women and young people to maintain their housing in the districts. The working party agrees that these two groups are important. For as stated in the Adult Declaration: ‘A successful district policy requires that districts become attractive as a place of residence for women, not least young well-trained women.’ But what seems to be forgotten is that for these so-called young well-trained women, a good kindergarten policy is crucial. Here the government is on its heels, since this year only about 2,500 new kindergartens are being built. In the alternative budget of the Workers' Party, we proposed approx. 12 500 new places. In today's situation, many kindergartens, especially in the most pig-grown districts, are at risk of being laid down, among others. because of the cash support. In addition, the Workers’ Party considers that start-up grants, municipal nutrition funds and rural development funds should be available, especially for women. New technologies make it possible today to carry out decentralised higher education. This is an excellent solution for many women with children, who have trouble travelling away to school. Nevertheless, a few days ago, government parties in Stortinget voted against a proposal for decentralised nurse training, while at the same time there is a alarming need for nurses in the districts. There are also problems getting doctors to the districts. Why, then, does it take so long for the Government to put the system into practice? This scheme will make it easier to get the missing doctors to the districts. Yes, even on the road budget, this government had to report passports in relation to the Workers' Party at the last budgetary procedure. Who was it that had believed it a few years ago? The Labour Party has always believed that it is the major district policy that must be the focus of economic, economic and political development in all parts of the country. The big district policy, what is it? Indeed, it is the municipal sector, the transport sector, agriculture, fisheries, labour market policy – and not least research. None of these areas are specifically mentioned in the State Council statement. The Council of State launched a new concept: the broad rural policy. Let's hope that this is a recognition that it's the big district policy – or call it the broad district policy – that works. But then the instruments also have to be inserted there. This is what is lacking in the government's policy, because that is what is impossible to achieve, as long as the Right and Advance Party are partners in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27.ana.ud1299e1801	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately at hand. The president proposed that the meeting should now be suspended and that a new meeting be set at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
