ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e93	They called for alternates, for Hedmark County of Magnhild Byseth Olrud, and for Trom's county of Elisabeth Aspaker, have taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Left-wing Group on sick leave for the representative of Mr Terje Johansen from 16 December until further notice from the representative of Mr Olav Akssen on leave from 16 December until 20 December in order to take part as an observer of the Council of Europe in the parliamentary elections in Russia On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Borghild TendenFor Hordaland County: Gard Folkvord3. Borghild Tenden is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Terje Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e137	Borghild Tenden and Gard Folkvord are present and will take the seat. The representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e142	I am delighted to propose a supplement to the social services law § 6, so that the treatment of gambling addicts is allowed into the law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e147	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e159	There is no need to say many words about this topic today. On the part of the Committee, we would just like to stress that we are pleased to receive the annual report from the Data Protection Authority the following year. It has been such a time that further time has passed before we have treated it. We are at these times when this with human cooperation is a topical issue, happy to be able to record what is stated in the Annual Report, that ‘the cooperation with the new Governing Board has been good’, as the Director of the Data Protection Authority himself expresses it. The size is aware that we will have to decide on a future scheme, but we are pleased that there is currently a good cooperation between the actors. We are also pleased that the Data Protection Authority clearly signals the importance of commenting on current issues, as it has done in the case of the trash analysis and the taxi video case. What's a problem at the moment is questions related to the so-called 'Divine Deaf Register'. We have not taken a position on this. We record the work that is done in relation to it, and we also see the objections that have been raised to the possible deletion of this. There is also a problem related to simplified presentations by people being able to get the idea that a matter is settled, and it may still be able to follow along and influence whether a person can get a job or get into a school in the future. The Committee is concerned that there is a clarification here, so you don't put people behind the light. Otherwise, we would like to express pleasure in the competence — the necessary competence — of the Data Protection Authority. It's an important actor in our society. With that, I would recommend the proposal for a resolution which the Committee unanimously supports.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e178	I am pleased that Stortinget is given the opportunity to process the 1998 Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority as early as the year after the notification year. This is in line with the stated wish of Stortinget. At the same time, it is important because developments in the field of privacy are moving rapidly, in particular as a result of technological developments. Among other things, increasing use of the Internet causes users to leave more and more personal data. Both electronic tracks and personal data collected by other means are under constant pressure, not least from the commercial sector. Proposal for a new law on the processing of personal data was sent to Stortinget on 25 June this year. On the same day, the EU Data Protection Directive, 95/46/EC, was incorporated into the EEA Agreement. It appears from the Annual Report of the Data Protection Supervisor for the notification year that supervisory work has already begun to adapt to new legislation. At the same time, ordinary proceedings are conducted under the applicable data protection law. I share the Committee's satisfaction that the Data Protection Agency is actively working in a number of sectors of society in order to achieve its objectives in the best possible way. In particular, this has been reflected in the supervisory work on data protection rules. Like the Committee, I welcome the approach adopted by the Supervisory Board to develop new rules on information security, that is, to draw on a common basic safety standard, so that, in close cooperation with sectors and industries, detailed recommendations can be drawn up. I would also like to point out that it is desirable in general to achieve a set of rules on information security, and therefore a regime in which users should not deal with more sets of rules and possibly more authorities in one area. Information activities of the Data Protection Authority are also important to raise awareness of privacy in society. The importance of good information is underlined when we are now also moving towards new legislation in this area. I am otherwise pleased to see the balance between privacy considerations and the need for the prevention and resolution of crime carried out by the Committee in the field of television surveillance of public space. I agree that it would be desirable for the Data Protection Authority to participate in the evaluation of test projects using surveillance cameras. I have noticed that the Committee considers it necessary to clarify the basis for registering simplified presentations. The Committee further asks the Government to review the rules applicable to the registration of fines adopted on the spot. I have also noticed that the Committee asks the Government to assess whether the control function of police records should be transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the Data Protection Authority. On this occasion, I am pleased to be able to inform you that the Ministry of Justice is currently working on setting up a working party to review the Criminal Registration Act. The working group is likely to be established during the first quarter of 2000. A natural part of the group’s work will be a review of just the two issues raised by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e195	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1551]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e209	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1551]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e223	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e230	I will not spend much time on this matter, because I already addressed the issue in the Justice Budget debate on December 3rd in my reply to the Council of State. What has been the Committee's concern in this matter is to point out an unfortunate imbalance between the amounts we are able to move on to during the ordinary budgetary procedure in relation to the amounts moved on in the amendment proposal. I'm not going to repeat my entire statement from December 3rd, but just point out that the majority in the committee is asking for the next year to be a major occasion for a political review of the elements of the motion for a change, and especially when the amounts are so large, it would have been desirable. With regard to the individual elements of the position beyond that, I would like to make a few comments on the appropriations to reduce the number of asylum stays. There is a broad consensus in the Committee that it is important to get rid of the pile that lies there, and there is a broad consensus that there is no wish for people to wait unnecessarily long for responses to asylum applications and possible exodus afterwards, but it is clear that when the extra cost of the police involved in the implementation of asylum interrogations and emigrations is more than 50 million. For example, in the case of a one-year operating budget, there is, to compare with something, as much as the police were lacking in their entire operating budget last year in order to maintain their operations from the previous year. It is so large that I think it is positive that the majority say that it would have been desirable both with more detailed information about the increased inflow, and that we might have the opportunity to go deeper into the matter in its entirety. This situation is now, with this acute need to reduce the balances, there is agreement to grant the amount, but, as I said, there is a general recommendation from the majority of the committee to get more opportunity to work down to the depth of the issues raised in the amendment proposal, and that as much of the political issues as possible must be linked to the ordinary budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e243	On behalf of the Workers' Party, I would like to link two comments to the amendment proposal. One concerns what was raised first by the chairperson of the Committee, the relationship between the ordinary budgetary procedure and the content of the amendment proposal, which comes right at the end of the year. The budget for justice only illustrates a general problem that also affects other departments, that it contributes to a larger expenditure growth without seeing things in context. I do not have in mind all the good purposes that could be eligible for support from the annual budgets, but it is really a problem that this is being presented to the Stortinget and the individual committees so late in the year that there is no possibility of going into the individual matters in particular, nor will there be any possibility of prioritising them. Major redispatches and additions at the end of the year are a problem. There is a great deal of attention to the general budgetary procedure each harvest, and I also think we need to be concerned about what the actual budget will be like at the end of the year. The second question concerns a power cap to wind up the asylum seeker queue, on which we are ending completely. One can, however, ask themselves if this came as surprising as one would have it presented. I have more the impression that this has been mentioned and come throughout the year, and I think it may be a little surprising that a needed time until the regrouping proposal before a person was asked for more resources to get a faster procedure on asylum seekers. From the Labour Party we have no comments in the sense that we are going into and discussing the reasons for the increased refugee and asylum seeker queue, because we do not think this is the time or that we have the opportunity to go into this thoroughly now, and because there is no good basis in the proposition for it. But if I should first like to comment on it, I would like to say that there are many different reasons for the refugee and asylum seeker queue, and that we have to live with a variation here throughout the year and in relation to the individual years, there is probably something in the presentation of the new government, especially last year, which was also documented by articles in international press. One wanted to present the changes to the asylum criteria as more liberal than it was actually on the basis of, and that could give people the impression that here it was just coming, the doors were open. When we also got that presentation from e.g. The progress party could provide a basis for an increase in at least the short term. But I stress that there are many reasons for the increase in the asylum seeker queue, and one should not take that presentation too far. I have noticed that the Government and government parties in many contexts want to stress that they have contributed to decorations and a more liberal practice on their own. When the criticism comes, they're very quick to say that here we've got the support of a majority in the Grand Duchy at least, and that is really, laid a broader foundation. I think that makes sense. There is agreement on the broad lines of Norwegian refugee and asylum policy, and this must also be reflected in the legislation. But it is clear that within the regulatory framework there is a great deal of discretion. And I would like one at some point to have a review of the effects of the practice and the changes that have now been on the table for two years, especially because one has changed practices relating to the emphasis on humanitarian considerations, that we have a review especially then of the group that gets to stay on a humanitarian basis, and those that get to stay on a family reunion basis, so that we on the side of the Storting have the opportunity to give views on that practice and the changes that one wants to make. I would like to conclude by asking the Council of State what time perspective you have on such a presentation to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e258	Last autumn during the budget negotiations, it would probably be a government crisis if the Progress Party and the Right had been demanding 10-20 million. kr more to the police. The Minister of Finance was concerned with the sacred budget balance. According to the Government, some additional police posts or sufficient funds for overtime at the country's police district would result in overheating of the economy, interest rate increases, low dollar rates and total chaos. Now, the year is coming to an end, and the government is proposing expenditure increases in the justice sector at about a quarter of an hour. 220 million. kr. Obviously, the money goes for good, strongly prioritised by the Advancement Party. However, additional funds for the interception of mobile phones and for the accelerated treatment of asylum cases could, of course, have been proposed in the 2000 budget, as well as the long wait problem for asylum seekers has been known for a long time, and was known when the 1999 budget was discussed. In the comments made by the Government, the majority of the population already endorsed an embellishment of the asylum rules in 1998, which, of course, has led to an increase in the influx of asylum seekers. But it also knew the government when the 1999 budget was discussed. In other words, some of the additional appropriations now proposed should have been submitted for political consideration in the 1999 budget, while others should have been included in the 2000 budget. The unprofitable budgetary practices of the Government also receive a well-deserved taste from the majority of the Judicial Committee. It's very joyful. This government is not the first to budget in this way. This is not the first time additional appropriations have been advanced at the end of a year which in ordinary budgetary negotiations could easily lead to a crisis mood. It is therefore so gratifying that the majority of the population now speak from both the Financial Committee and the Trade Union Committees. The overthrow is about to take back the power that is knowingly conferred upon the granting authority, and that the Government through its budget has tried to deprive the Storting. It's very important. The more astonishing, pathetic and tragic it is to support the total subordinate position of government parties. They dare not criticise anything, and accept without delay the million excesses without mucking. They show a cowardice and serility to which you have hardly seen your husband, even from government parties. This will be their own problem. If the representatives of the government parties want to crawl around on all four as cosy animals for the Minister of Justice and his bureaucrats, I would like to point out that this is just a picture. In any case, the majority of the population have said from – that is what the government should take note of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e271	The Committee's recommendation to amend the 1999 government budget follows the proposal. Nevertheless, there are comments made on everything, and the shades between the batches are shown in some of the areas. I would like to comment on the points that the Christian People's Party is not included in the comments. This applies, inter alia, to: the start of the notes on page 2 of the setting. We consider it a natural task for the Committee to put an end to a considerable amount of work on the budget for justice next year. Equally, of course, the Committee and the Stortinge place the political priorities in the ordinary budgetary procedure. We also take it as a matter of course that the change proposal should essentially be the up and down adjustments to previous estimates of expenditure and revenue. Nor is there any doubt that the change proposition is being treated under time pressure. In other words, there is a common understanding of these statements, which constitute approximately. the second sentence of the first majority observations. Novelties are really about whether, in the form of a note, there is a need to instruct the Government and the Ministry in these areas, and whether it is necessary to criticise the implementation of the Stortinge decision in a fast and effective way, and that the Government then chooses to use the change proposition for a couple of such cases. The amount of information that needs to be provided with each amendment is also discussed. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the information available, with one exception, on the sale of dwellings at Ullersmo National Prison. There should have been both an explanation as to why the budget decision on sales has not been followed up and as to how implementation has been followed up. For example, the majority want to include in next year's amending proposal the ratio of budget to accounting in the last three years for those items that have large deviations. The Christian People's Party has not seen it as a need, as long as it comes with explanations as to why changes must occur. On the other hand, my frustration at the first budgetary proceedings was great, because I missed, for example, the three last years' accounting figures to see if the priorities over time had the overall strength needed to avoid bottlenecks and budgetary imbalances, for example. the criminal procedure chain. Finally, with regard to the extra appropriations for the ordinary asylum and foreign affairs, I will refer to the comments of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party and simply express our satisfaction that we are now making an extra effort to bring down the balances. It is a heavy human burden to wait, both for the handling of the case and for any shipment. It's about respect for human dignity. That is why the Christian People's Party looks forward to an asylum and refugee policy where there is no accumulation of leftovers, and where each asylum seeker is guaranteed a rapid and effective treatment of applications, which is also cost-effective.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e284	The Government's supplementary appropriations in the Ministry of Justice's area for the autumn of 1999 mainly put forward proposals for changes in estimates and changes of a more technical nature. These proposals have been presented as has been done in the past. I have taken note of the Committee's wish for a change in the proposal for the coming year, and will, of course, comply with the wish to provide information such as this. the ratio between the budget and the accounts for the last three years for those items which have significant discrepancies. There are three proposals I would like to comment on in particular, all of which concern the police operating budget: 1st@item: inlistbox Seventeen million. to a specific action for the decommissioning of detentions of asylum seekers in the police department2. Twenty-seven million. kr for the organisation of mobile phone network interception3. Eighteen million. kr in the context of the Yitzhak Rabin memory marker Let me first comment on the last point, which essentially concerned the security of a large number of international political leaders, with the American President at the head, and where there was a need for a particularly high level of security and preparedness. It was my responsibility and the responsibility of the Norwegian police that the various events and events could be carried out within a reassuring framework. Major security measures are necessary in such contexts. I therefore do not hesitate to give the police the top character for the way this major challenge was handled. It is my hope that the experience we have gained from this can help to ensure that Norway can continue to be a current venue for peace-building actions and processes. The funds allocated to the Memorial will be spent on the current year. In the case of the other two areas, i.e. the issue of asylum-residual status and the interception of the mobile network will benefit only a limited part of the additional appropriations in the current year. As the proposition also shows, funds will have to be transferred to the year 2000. I have noticed that a majority of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in the vote has some fundamental views on the proposal for such a large amount in the supplementary budget. I would like to stress that a relatively large proportion of the increase proposed in the police budget is almost regulated expenditure, such as the United Kingdom. the police side costs of Chapter 440, item 21, in the context of the asylum procedure. However, I do not disagree with the fact that the sum of all the amounts is significant, and in the policy chapter, it is particularly the asylum recovery operation and the case of listening to the mobile telephone network that represents large amounts. Nevertheless, there is reason to expect significant results from the actions underpinning the proposals. I have to point out that the Ministry of Justice's budget proposal for the year 2000 stated that it would follow developments in the field of asylum carefully and evaluate on an ongoing basis any exceptional measures. The situation indicates that exceptional measures are strictly required. Police remains for 1999 have increased sharply, not least as a result of the additional burden that the Kosovo crisis represented for the Norwegian police, among others. implementing the registration and follow-up of 6000 Kosovo Albanian refugees. This came at the same time as a very large number of asylum arrivals in general. The government considers it essential, in particular in the interests of the applicants, to reduce the duration of proceedings on asylum interrogations. With regard to the representative Bjørnstad's question to me, the government is constantly evaluating the decorations that have taken place. As regards asylum, where we have had relations with the UN High Commissioner, we have said in 1999 that we find it natural to assess and evaluate the decoration of the asylum criteria during 2001. We have the same plans for other matters: issues related to humanitarian stay and family reunification. We've earned a review of development, but also after a certain period of time. Of course, we consider ongoing challenges, and in terms of, for example: The situation of a large number of young men who come from Iraq and speak Swedish, German and Danish is a particular challenge. We also consider whether we need to set a limit on how long we should be able to stay in Norway in relation to the number of requests for conversion. These are questions that are considered on an ongoing basis and to which the Stortinget will receive an appropriate response. We follow up the questions; it's our duty to do it. The 27-million-dollar proposal. kr to the necessary investments in order to be able to intercept the mobile telephone network represents an important innovation in the fight against crime by the police. I also refer to the comments made by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in Innst. O. No 3 for 1999-2000. Criminals, and in particular those who commit organised crime, use very little of the fixed telephone network, and it is vital for police investigation that the mobile network is also made accessible. Of course, this must be done in close cooperation with the companies concerned, i.e. Telenor and NetCom. The share-of-expenditure agreement between the companies and the State was concluded in the autumn, and the Government therefore did not have the basis to present draft budgets for this purpose at an earlier date and thus not in the draft budget for the year 2000, which was submitted early in October. Moreover, I allow myself to point out that the agreement means that the State covers one third of the costs for each of the companies. I would also like to mention that the Government presented an additional proposal for 1999 in connection with the 'Sleipner' accident on 26 November. In conclusion, I am pleased that a single judicial authority agrees with the supplementary and redeployment proposals promoted in the proposal, and I will, of course, take my responsibility for the best follow-up of these appropriations decisions. Finally, I would like to say that I remember well the representative Mr. Devold's question to me during the ordinary budgetary procedure, and because I have a past as a magnificence representative, I also realise the justification for the question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e320	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1551]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e334	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1553]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e346	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1553]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e365	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, Left and the representative Mikalsen 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e374	As you know, it's blown a lot around state buildings lately. It is enough to mention the reconstruction of the Castle and the implementation of the New Rikshospital project. And now, in this debate, we're not going to go into any distribution of blame when it comes to the cost increases we've experienced in the two cases. When I mention them initially, it's because they better than other things so clearly illustrate the need to look at the routines of major state construction projects. The evaluation of State Building's current organisation is a natural consequence of the criticism, justified or unjustified, that has been raised against the company. It should now be said that, as early as 1997, a strategy process was initiated in Statsbyggen at the request of both the company itself and the department. Initially, in the staging proposition, the Government states that the aim is to present proposals for changes designed to address both the political governance needs, clarify the different roles assigned to State buildings today, facilitate the reorganisation of the company as a body of state competence and ensure better framework conditions for the competitive part of the business. And let me immediately say that, in my view, the department has done a good job on the proposition. It's also my impression that State Building itself has contributed well. The consultations held by the Committee have given the impression that the company has been able to look at itself with critical eyes. It is also my impression that today we have a management in the company that has addressed the major challenges both with enthusiasm and with a sense of urgency. And it's my experience that when enthusiasm does the work, we get the best result. It is therefore important that we contribute to keeping this enthusiasm alive. Not that we should not be critical when criticism is justified. It is also my impression that the consideration of the employees is adequately taken into account during the conversion process. The country is a major owner of property, while being a major demander of many types of premises for different state establishments. It goes without saying that the management and maintenance of this property is very important and imposes high standards of competence in several areas. There are big values to take care of. State buildings manage a total of 2.6 million m2. To illustrate the values we are talking about, I would mention that the company has an investment budget in 1999 of DKK 2.5 billion and annual rental income of NOK 2.2 billion. I would also like to point out that State Building does not operate its own business, as someone outside this house seems to believe. State buildings represent the country as a builder and purchase from the market above 96 pst. of the goods and services included in a State construction project. According to the proposal, the evaluation has revealed several adverse events. There are uncertainties in project and customer responsibility, the cost framework is set at an early stage of the project, the company plays an unfortunate double role both as a consultant in relation to the choice of premises and as a provider of similar premises. In addition, the management company does not have the same framework conditions as competitors in the market, including: with regard to financing. On the plus side it is mentioned that the rent scheme has worked according to the intentions and among other things. ensured an adequate level of maintenance. The Ministry concludes that there is a need for a reorganization such as: create a clearer distinction between the administrative and business parts of the business. Procedures must be established which clearly distinguish the company's role as adviser and offerer. Furthermore, internal responsibilities need to be clarified, and project management procedures need to be improved. The government further believes that it is most rational for the state to have state buildings with a high level of competence in construction and property matters. Thus, different parts of central government are not building up their own competences in this area. A joint committee takes note of this. The Workers' Party supports the Government's conclusions. In our view, it is absolutely necessary that the State as a builder has the necessary competence both in implementing state-owned construction projects and in assessing private offers for renting premises. A strong and capable state building will be the best guarantee that public interests are safeguarded. Of course, the size of the company can be discussed, but we believe that the state must ensure its own competence at a high level in this area is absolutely necessary. On that occasion, I would like to quote what the president of the Norwegian Architects' League, Ketil Kiran, wrote for a while in the evening post: ‘That is why we need a strong state-owned construction organisation with a high level of competence in the various construction disciplines, which can take responsibility for the high-quality construction of buildings by the public sector in Norway. We need a facility that can develop the most optimal construction processes and that can gain experience as a professional multiple-time builder. We need an establishment that can go ahead and realize a publicly formulated architecture policy and be a model for other construction activities. The fact that State buildings do not meet these requirements in full today means that a critical review and any adjustment to the business is timely does not mean that they are to be closed.» I fully share Kiran's view and feel that it is this high ambition both the ministry and State Building itself have. As far as architecture and aesthetics are concerned, I would particularly like to make a comment that everyone, except the Advance Party, is behind, where it says: ‘At a time when the pressure for economic optimum is strong, it is important that public authorities and businesses take precedence over overall environmental considerations such as architecture, aesthetics, etc.’. Furthermore, the majority assume that ‘good practices for cooperation with the Riksantik product are established and that the company acquires sufficient autonomy in the field of cultural memory protection and antiques’. As part of the reorganisation, the Government proposes that the competitive part of property management be separated as a separate organisational unit and established as a new public limited-liability company. For the remaining part of State Building, extensive restructuring is proposed. An organisation of four areas of activity is recommended: 1. management, operation, maintenance and development of properties 2. consultancy and construction services3. plan and investigation 4. Construction subject to competition The new limited liability company shall take care of the latest. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, has no comments on this, but underlines the importance of giving the limited liability company framework conditions in line with private operators. A second majority, all with the exception of the Party of Advances and the Right, supports the proposal that the remaining part, which is to be responsible for the construction of purposes, be retained as a management company. This type of enterprise will ensure the best balance between the need for political governance and the company’s needs for business and service activities. The form of association also confers upon the Council of State the powers of instruction which may be necessary for the management of the company. The same majority support the proposal for the establishment of the new public limited-liability company, which has been given the job name Statens for rent building AS. It is assumed that the company should be an operator in a competitive property market and that the company should not compete for the construction of new property projects for private entities. The primary objective shall be to meet the country’s needs for premises in a market where competition exists. The company should therefore compete with the private company to give the best offer to the state. I mentioned initially two projects, where we have experienced particularly large cost increases in relation to the approved framework. An overall committee underlines the importance of developing cost estimates and frameworks to be addressed by the Storting on a better basis than has been the case up to now. It is also necessary to establish procedures to ensure continuous overviews of progress, quality and status in relation to the established framework. The Committee considers it imperative to establish much safer procedures for the implementation of the project. Without prejudice to the responsibilities of the Committee in any way relating to the Rikshospitalet, the Committee reinforces the Ministry's emphasis on the governance of the agreed cost framework for any project. This must include, inter alia: imply, which is also assumed by the Ministry, that any wishes of the users who cannot be resolved within the framework can only be met by equivalent savings in other parts of the project. As regards the relationship with the cost framework and the project implementation, the Committee considers it so strongly that a decisive test will be made as to whether the new form of organisation has been successful or whether a full reassessment of the role and tasks of State-building will be required. Here lies the biggest challenge for the company, in my view During the work on the matter, the Committee has received a number of enquiries on the question of which buildings are to be transferred to the State Renting Building AS. However, this assessment must be attributed to the Government. The size does not have the necessary basis for an independent and individual assessment of this building mass. The Committee has therefore not taken a decision on this issue. However, the majority regard the definition and categorisation of the concept of ‘construction’ by the Ministry as a good starting point. In the case of tenants in the buildings transferred to the limited liability company, a clause will be included in the contracts which ensures their adherence to the premises as long as trade ministries so wish. Another topic of discussion is the question of responsibility for decoration. Here the majority, all except the Advance Party, point out that both State Building and State Building AS, as state-owned companies, have a special responsibility for the decoration of public buildings. The majority therefore support the proposal that the limited liability company should also follow the guidelines given in the guidance for «Estetics in State Buildings» on the same lines as Statsbyggen. However, the majority do not support the proposal that tenants have the final decision-making authority with regard to the scope of the artistic decoration. It must be the responsibility of the company. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e450	I will first be allowed to say that the Progress Party shares the Government's proposals and conclusions in St.prp. No 84 for 1998-99. But the Progress Party feels that this is just a step – and a little step – in the right direction. Of course, this is very good with regard to the proposal to separate part of the property stock in a separate company. However, the Progress Party wants a number of other strong measures to be taken in the organisation of State Building. I would like to point out that it is great that the government is now taking lessons from the various unfortunate handlings that state buildings have had with large and complicated projects. What I am aiming for here is a desire for reorganization, a desire to move towards more customer device, more efficient project management models, new performance indicators, which will meet the need for continuous overviews of progress, quality and status in relation to the established cost framework. But the Progress Party believes it is timely to ask questions as to whether it is at all necessary for the State to remain the owner of a colossal state building. That must be the correct name for a company that rented 1.5 million in 1998. m2 and owned a total of 6 million. m2. Of the land owned, State buildings managed approx. 2.6 million. m2. Therefore, the government's proposal to separate the competitive part of State Building from a separate company will have a minimal impact on the size of State Building as a property company. The property we're talking about here is a total of 640,000 m2 and is approximately equivalent. 24 pst. of the total property portfolio. The value of this is booked for approx. Three billion kroner. It says something about the difficult total values released by the proposals of the Progress Party. There are, in fact, several reasons which contradict the fact that the State is the owner. In short, this can be said as follows: The experience we have gained with State Building in construction projects in recent years has strongly encouraged the state to engage others in such projects.We know that State Building is over a significant building mass. Such a collection of property on the state's hand is not fortunate.By freeing the state from State Building, with its enormous area needs and long-term long-term needs, the state will be a very interesting contracting partner for private property owners. The State will then be able to obtain a very good price on the rental market, and there will be considerable competition between the major property players in the country to obtain the State as a tenant. It is from these points of view that the Progress Party proposes the creation of a company, which is proposed by the Government, the State Rent Building AS. In this company, all the property that is not mentioned for special reasons in order to be owned by the State must be deposited. The company should be listed on Oslo Stock Exchange, and the State should then sell itself gradually entirely out of the company. We also propose the creation of another company, the State Purpose Building AS, which is responsible for managing the building mass of which it is absolutely necessary for the state to be the owner, i.e. the buildings that are not included under the State Rental Building AS. This company is given the task of managing this building mass. The buildings in question must be considered very critically. In addition, increased commercial exploitation of this building mass has to be required. In this company, it is necessary to allow one or more external partners to be included, so that the country’s holding is minimised, if possible only 51 pst. We also propose the creation of a third company, State Building Project AS, where areas of activity such as management, operation, maintenance, advice, plan and investigation are introduced. The state should also sell itself all the time. The need for this type of competence may, of course, be met by the conclusion of agreements on the free market. This implies that state buildings, as we know today, cease to exist. The proposals put forward here by the Progress Party will release significant amounts for the State, which can be relocated elsewhere, or channelled into other parts of the country’s activities. In addition, as I said, we need to have a very critical review of the country's total property portfolio in order to find out which properties can be transferred to the state rental building AS. As a matter of principle, the Progress Party believes that the State should not be the owner of more properties than those of which it is absolutely necessary to be the owner. The Progress Party is of the opinion – and I am convinced – that the organisation we have proposed here will lead to the state being able to get the most out of the values that are currently in State Building. I would like to promote the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e494	Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e497	The size of the project is currently addressing a matter of major importance for the public building and property management in Norway. The proposal for the reorganisation of State Building is primarily a necessary step in order to optimise the state's overall resource management. The State has a very significant property portfolio and has to meet a broad need for larger and smaller premises. State buildings are the country’s main means of meeting these needs. It is the responsibility of State Building to develop top-notch competences on more complex construction tasks and act as the state advisory body in its field. State buildings shall carry out property development, planning and investigation, be builders and not least assume operational and maintenance responsibilities. In order to meet these very complex challenges in a new era, a most efficient and forward-looking organisation is needed. The Christian People's Party has noted with satisfaction that extensive work has been carried out in order to develop a more timely concept for an efficient and manageable organisation. There is a broad consensus that time was overdue to make a new grip. To what extent it will be successful, only time can show. But with the very extensive work that has been done, there is every reason to have expectations. In view of the desire to implement a stronger distinction between the administrative and business components in order to achieve a clearer division of responsibilities and roles, a two-part concept has been developed. It is proposed that State buildings as management companies should continue to manage, maintain and develop special purpose constructions, so-called purpose building, as well as simpler constructions in geographical areas where there is no well-functioning supplier market. The second part covers what is described as a competitive building and is separated into a separate limited-liability company, the State Renting Building AS, which will be responsible for competitively exposed, state-owned construction and with framework conditions in line with private operators. We note with satisfaction that the Government has gained broad agreement in the Committee for its assessments, and that a majority of the Workers' Party, the Centre Parties and the Socialist Left Party are united in supporting the Government's main conclusions. The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Breimo, should be congratulated on the work of the rapporteur-general. He has explained the various aspects of the matter. I also subscribe to most of his views. On a few points, however, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, through their comments, have expressed divergent views. The working party and SV want to know to what extent the remaining housing and property mass of state-owned buildings can be used to solve housing problems for disadvantaged people in the housing market. However, such a solution would, if it had been given a majority, violate the principles underlying State Building's rental policy, inter alia. this applies to rentals for cost recovery. This would have consequences for the return requirement set at the establishment. It would mean imposing tasks of a social nature on State-building that require significant administrative resources. In addition, the housing stock of State Building is relatively small, while the housing is largely used for government employees. In addition, housing measures for disadvantaged people are a municipal responsibility. Although you should initially be positive about helping people in need of housing, it goes without saying that a state-building solution in such a role would not be appropriate. The Workers' Party and the SV further believe that the disposal of property should be submitted to the Council of State as a general meeting, because this is a matter of the company's substance values, and there may be political arguments against sale. However, we cannot see that the sale of property in a limited liability company is a matter for the general meeting. Such a commitment could make activities more cumbersome and weaken competitiveness. If there are fears of strong political arguments against a sale, the properties in question should not be transferred to a separate limited liability company. A point that has aroused a certain discussion is the extent to which the State Renting Building AS is to be required to follow the ‘Estetics in State Buildings and Facilities’ supervisor. The majority of the Committee is concerned that public opinion at all levels is leading by a good example in presenting good architecture and aesthetic design that also includes decoration. Today, we see an increased awareness of the population regarding the design of public space. We have also received legislation that obliges municipal authorities to take aesthetic considerations into account in the approval of construction products. Nor can it be difficult to see that the requirement of artistic embellishment against Staten’s rental building AS would lead to a weakening of the competitive conditions. It must be as easy as a comparative advantage to be able to offer construction that also maintains high aesthetic quality and standard. Finally, I would just like to say that the Christian People's Party believes that the proposal that is being adopted today will form a good platform for the continuation of State Building responsibilities in construction and property management in Norway in the time to come. We also refer to the notes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e518	The background to this whole issue is the massive criticism that has been addressed in recent years to State Buildings for the management of several major construction projects. First of all, New Rikshospital and the reconstruction of the Castle. In his report on the project New Rikshospital, the Rikshospital addresses the crushing criticism of State Building: Statsbygg has broken rules and requirements for thorough and realistic cost assessments.There are significant weaknesses in the project management systems in Statsbygg.Statsbygg has not organised the planning functions well enough in relation to the complexity and size of the project. Leaders at different levels have therefore not had sufficient information and have therefore not been able to correct deviations in time. The Ministry of Labour and Administration has also been strongly criticised for not having followed up the projects well enough. The Ministry has been referred to as a State Building Post Office. In the light of the attitude of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg will examine the Riksrevision report on its own merits. But the issues mentioned here are an important part of the basis for the ongoing reorganization of state buildings. However, it should also be said – in the name of justice – that State Building under the new leadership has shown considerable willingness to address the problems, and we got a very good impression of this work when the Committee visited State Buildings earlier this autumn and got a thorough briefing on the work currently underway internally. The Ministry proposes that State Building should continue to manage and operate the buildings and that State Building should continue to be the builder and manage the construction of buildings on behalf of the ministries. And on the other hand, A new calculation model shall be introduced, setting out the cost framework only after the completion of the pilot project in larger and more complex projects. Hopefully this will contribute to more realistic cost estimates. More efficient project management models shall be established, better addressing the need for a continuous overview of progress, quality and status in relation to the adopted cost framework. The Ministry stresses that the agreed cost framework is to govern the projects so that the wishes of the users who cannot be resolved within the framework can only be met if similar savings are made in other parts of the project. This is in agreement with the Right. However, if these guidelines are to be taken into account, it is essential that users’ needs are heard and stressed before the cost framework is set. The economic framework and time perspective for new projects to be adopted must be realistic when they are being addressed in the Grand Duchy. A few weeks ago, we were promised that the new Rikshospitalet would be used for the summer. Now the time for moving in to the harvest is preliminary. I have pointed to the criticism of State Building and the role of the Department, but it is not surprising that much of the responsibility for the exceedances lies with the majority of people who first decided to build a hospital that was obviously too small and then adopted the necessary extensions in series and rows. This warned the Right against by the first decision in 1988, and there is reason to warn against the same happening, for example. in connection with the extension of the Regional Hospital in Trondheim. In addition to the reorganisation of Landsbyggen’s activities in the field of civil engineering, the separation of the competitive buildings in a separate AS is positive. It is important that this become a company that has commercial operations and that is offered premises for state activities under the same conditions as private operators. However, the majority of the property stock of Land Building remains in the State Building management company. The Ministry proposes to transfer a total building area of 0.64 million. m2 to the State Renting Building AS, with a building area of 2,2 million. m2 remains in the management company. In the Right's view, the department's definition of purpose building is very broad. A number of the properties that are still intended to be managed by Statsbyggen are residential properties and office premises. It would have been desirable if several of these had been transferred to the state's rental building, so that state buildings could concentrate on the management of the buildings that are of such a nature that heavy considerations indicate that the state is the owner. The new company becomes a State operator in the ordinary property market, and state tenants can equally meet their needs for premises through agreements with private companies. We've noticed that in the long run, the Department will not exclude privatisation. The right assumes that the State’s long-term rental structure should be privatised. It should be fully privatised, and consideration for safeguarding the values of the State should guide the pace of this process. The right is positive about the reorganisation internally in Statsbyggen, but we should not conceal that we are in doubt whether this will be sufficient to meet the criticisms that, among other things, are. The National Auditor has traveled. The right considers that the outsourcing of the tasks of State Building as regards the planning, organisation and project management of state building projects and the organisation of State Building as an AS is necessary, and we therefore promote proposals to this effect. I'm taking up right-hand suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e559	Inger Stolt-Nielsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e562	It is worth noting that one third of the country’s needs for local civil sector are currently being managed by State Building. The way Statsbyggen has managed its own and the different construction projects has been the subject of much discussion. Not least the constant overruns while construction was being performed resulted in criticism. Now State Building is to be split into two parts with Staten’s rental building AS as the new part. We shall have a clearer distinction between management and business, and distinguish the roles of advisers and providers. Similarly, it is easier to clarify internal responsibilities and to establish better project management procedures. ‘New State Building’ – to call it so – is the task of managing, maintaining and developing buildings that house special purposes. Similarly, national, cultural or historical concerns will be included here. Some buildings should be owned by the country because of their national character. This is a building that gives Norway its identity, such as the Castle, the Stortinget, the Supreme Court building or the Nidaros Cathedral. There would be a loss for Norway as a nation if this type of construction were not in Norwegian public ownership. An important task for State Building is to be a driver of environmental efforts, both as a builder, as a property manager and as a body of expertise. We don't have to go very far to see that this isn't working well enough. It could seem like the one hand didn't always know what the other did. In my own county, Rogaland, a new high school reader was built in Haugesund where Stadsbyg was responsible. This enabled natural gas to be used from the local area as energy in the building. But it wasn't. That's why it's so important that the environmental investment is coming in as one of the tasks. We know otherwise that we need someone to do special constructions in Norway. There may be special constructions, such as the new opera, the Rikshospitalet, etc. That's why we need State Building. When it's for Staten's rental building AS, it's going to be 100 pst. State-owned. Nor shall it compete for the inclusion of new private caller ownership projects. The main objective is to meet the country’s local needs. It is also important to note that the state’s rental buildings are to manage, maintain and develop competitively competitive constructions in line with private operators. The central party believes that state buildings should not play a central role in rentals. We do not disagree with the Labour Party and SV in the objective of a public responsibility when it comes to rented housing, especially for young people and those with difficulty. But this is the responsibility of the municipalities, and it must be resolved by them in close cooperation with the Husbank. Good framework conditions for the House Bank are therefore a central tool in this area. When it concerns the concerns of those added in connection with the reorganisation, this is also well described in the proposition. The centre batch indicates that this will be followed up during the implementation process. We have now received an almost complete review of the entire state building, when it concerns both governance and structuring. I think this was completely required and in high time. We have too many unclear distinctions and unclear responsibilities, and there is also a lack of coordination. We are looking forward to this being done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e581	For my part, I would like to thank both the rapporteur and the department for the work they have done. We support the setting after we've been in the think box for a while. We believe that the arguments for separation and transformation into an AS are reasonable, and for us it has been important that there has been an open process, and that all actors have been heard and also support such separation. We believe that the Ministry has made a reasonable assessment of the type of construction to be transferred to the new limited liability company. I also see that the department has taken the consequences that Sweden has carried too many utility buildings over to the state limited liability company along with clean business buildings. I also remind you that much of the argument in Sweden and Finland has been that there was a need for capital relief. It can hardly be an argument for us, because if there's something the state doesn't lack, it's capital. There are therefore completely different arguments here in Norway, and this way of doing so ensures both better operation and clearer lines of responsibility, as several others have said. Then I think it is positive and good that regional offices also get more responsibility. There is a lot of good work done there. I am very pleased that the majority so clearly supports the fact that Staten’s rental building AS should also follow the guide ‘Estetics in State Buildings and Facilities’. With that, I see that you have to follow the decoration that we have. Decorating state building means a lot for people to experience both art and aesthetic qualities in their everyday lives. It's very valuable. So in the case that some of the buildings or properties that state buildings have should be able to use to solve the housing shortage that everyone sees are present, especially for young people. It has not been the intention of SV or the Workers' Party that State Building should be responsible for the rental. What we're calling for is to ask the government to assess whether some of the properties that either State Building or State Building AS have can be suitable for residential purposes for young and disadvantaged people. Then we're not unwilling, on the contrary, to look at whether any of these buildings or properties can be sold cheaply, so that it can really be cheap homes, but that means that the government has to be able to compensate for the possible loss of state buildings. When we raise this issue, too, it is because we believe that everyone has a responsibility to ensure that the need for housing is solved. It is also a state responsibility, and I refer then to the Questionnaire on 17 November, when the Council of State said that she was not unwilling to see if the properties of the state could be involved and contribute to solving the housing problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e596	The government has put forward proposals to reorganise the management company Statsbyggen and to separate part of the business of a state-owned whole-time limited liability company. The proposal is part of a reorganization process which has already begun in the autumn of 1997. The proposed reorganisation shall contribute to the better and more efficient management of a significant part of the State property stock. In addition, it is important that the reorganisation also facilitates better project implementation, so that new construction projects are implemented with the right quality within established cost frameworks. State buildings are currently property managers, builders of ministries and state activities, property developers and state building and property advisors. State-owned buildings offer state-owned tenants who wish to do so, adapted premises in new buildings or in existing buildings. In 1999, state-owned buildings have approx. 740 employees and have rent income of SEK 2.2 billion per year. The rent rate in 1998 was 98 p.m. In contrast to what many believe, state buildings do not engage in entrepreneurship. The management company is a builder, and purchases from the market approx. 96.5 pst. of the goods and services included in a State construction project. The state is a major property owner. The country is also a major demand for very different premises for many different state establishments. I believe that the strategy process that has been taking place in State Building since 1997 shows that it is still appropriate for the State to have its own building and management equipment. The need for systematic experience recovery also speaks for the maintenance of a government advisory, building and administrative body. The alternative would be to go back to the situation before the establishment of State Building, as different parts of the administration built up their own competence in these areas. I am pleased with the Committee's support on the point that State Building should be a government model and instrument for the pursuit of environmental, architecture and economic policies. In my view, the form of management will ensure the best balance between the need for political governance and the company’s need for business and service activities. The strategy process has highlighted that the simplest and most competitive buildings can be managed more efficiently for the State. Since Landsbyggen is organised as a management company, they do not have the same conditions as private companies when competing for the tenants. This is the background to the Government's proposal to separate part of the business from State Building into a state limited liability company. The State Rent Building AS shall compete with private premises for state activities. There have been differing views on the criteria for the separation of properties of this company. For the Government it has been important to maintain that the buildings to be separated must be of such a nature that alternative premises can easily be rented in the market. Safer procedures for project implementation have been a very important part of the strategy process. I therefore appreciate the feedback I have received from the Committee in this context. Although Statsbyggen is responsible for projects that are not well managed, in the opinion of many people, I think it is important not to forget the whole. The vast majority of construction projects in Stadsbyggen go according to plan. In 1998, State Building completed 25 projects. The final sum of these projects was 101 pst. of the cost framework, which is good within the performance requirement of a maximum of 2,5 pst. exceedance of the cost framework. I believe that the changes I have outlined here are necessary in order for state buildings to achieve the intended security of supply and trust of authorities and users, and I am very pleased that the majority in Stortinget also agrees with the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e618	I won't extend the debate much, but I just need to comment on a few points that I didn't touch on in my post. First of all, it's housing. Ågot Valle clarified what's in that note from our side. I would like to stress that it does not apply to the function that State Building should have. In the precarious situation on the housing market, which includes: Oslo, we find it reasonable to make an assessment of whether state buildings have any properties that can be made available to help solve the problem. The state cannot do so alone, but the state can participate. That's what's in that note. It can be done, for example. think that there can be a makeover between the state and the municipality of Oslo, and perhaps both parties can be satisfied. It also has a background in the positive response that the Council of State, after all, gave in to the questioning, as she was not unwilling to make such an assessment. So a comment on what goes on the disposal of properties. Now I am not so much schooled within the bus, nor in the case of private-sector companies, but I do not think it is very often that the board has powers to dispose of the substance of a company without the owner being in the picture at all. In most cases, the owner may also be involved in that process. It may well be that when the State renting company AS sees no need to rent out its building, the state can use the building for anything else. Maybe it can contribute to housing. Perhaps the building can be used for another public purpose. Perhaps you should listen to local views about the future use of this property, etc. I find it difficult to see that this way of dealing with that particular question will be a hindrance to the new company. I think it would be quite natural for the Council of State to be consulted at least in order to reduce the substance values of the companies. I am aware that you sell and get heads and ears for the building, but still.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e625	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e628	I would like to comment on Mr Breimo's last post. The first concerns the sale of dwellings. We have already looked at the property of state buildings, especially in the Oslo area, and I would like to say once again what I have also said from this pulpit in the past, that state buildings should not, first of all, be a body for renting dwellings in general. Second, actually, state buildings have sold out a lot of the homes they've had in recent years. The homes we have are going a long way, or to say it like this, so say 100 pst. provided for, inter alia: State-affiliated. In the case of properties that could possibly be sold to dwellings, I have also tried to look a little further into it. At least it's very difficult to see per person. the current date that there are properties, with the exception of those that we already have in discussion. Among other things, I mentioned two of these properties earlier in an article, where it might come up with a solution, where you might say. in the Gyda road divides up to some dwellings and something for public purposes. In the latter case, with the disposal of property, I have to state that in my opinion this is not a matter for the general meeting, because when we convert into a limited liability company, it is also such that the sale of property must be regarded as an ordinary case in a property company of this size. It would be a hindrance to the company if it were not to be able to act sufficiently quickly on the sale of property if it were to compete with others.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e637	Several have not asked for the word. [[Fotation, see page 1553]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e651	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e654	Digital television will mean the greatest change ever in the television sector. The way in which television is used will change, and the potential for active use of interactive services on television will greatly increase through the development of digital television. In most areas, it is a unanimous committee that is behind today's setting. It became clear that further investigations are needed before a final decision is taken on which platform or platform to expand. There is a raging development in this area, and several actors, both political and market players, have submitted plans for the deployment of broadband networks, hybrid networks, etc., which will mean enormous opportunities for the distribution of interactive television services. The Committee welcomes the follow-up by the Ministry of the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to Stortinget's call for its own broadcast on digital television. The Committee supports the wish to introduce digital television in Norway. Digital technology will provide a number of additional services in addition to the inclusion of different television channels. The Committee notes that various media will increasingly converge, melt the same, and in this context will point to the great potential of this. At the same time, the Committee would stress that these developments are so rapid that it is difficult to identify what would be the ideal solutions. The Committee notes that digital television has a number of advantages which analogue television cannot offer. In particular, we would point out that the scarce frequency resources will be better exploited if you choose to bet on a digitally based television offer. The cost of distribution per television channels will also be significantly lower for digital television than for current analogue televisions. Digital television will also provide more robust signals and may contain additional services alongside television programmes. The Committee agrees with the Ministry's description of the benefits and disadvantages of developing a network for terrestrial digital television in the technical field. Then move on to the status in Norway. The Committee notes that in 1996 the Ministry of Culture asked the telecommunications authorities of the Ministry of Transport to launch the frequency planning for digital television. The Ministry also requested that the possibility of two nationwide networks be examined in the first instance. The Committee will request the Ministry to clarify whether it is possible to further extend the number of transmission networks. The Committee says that there should be at least three multiplexes, or three transmission networks, if there is to be any sense in starting up terrestrial digital television. In order to have an attractive alternative to cable, broadband or satellite distribution, it should be open to at least three multiplexes, so that there is a wide range of channels. Two broadcasting networks, which are the original proposal in the big news, will be able to offer eight digital television channels, which are not in proportion to the range of other distribution solutions, such as cable or satellite. The Committee agrees with the Ministry's assumption that within a few years consumers will face the choice between an analogue offer and the transition to one of several digital offers. The Committee would stress that the work to achieve non-proprietary solutions, i.e.: open solutions and common standards will be very important for the public's willingness to invest in new television technologies. The Committee has also noted that the Ministry emphasises that Norwegian and NRK in particular have committed themselves strongly to the introduction of digital terrestrial television in Norway. The Ministry further states that the participation of the NRK will ensure the development of a terrestrial digital television network. The Committee has therefore noted that the role of the NRK is given special attention by the Ministry, and the Committee agrees that the role of the NRK is important. It becomes particularly important when the NRK in a separate note, a letter attached to the setting, says that the possibility of a broadband network should be explored before taking a final stand for the development of a terrestrial digital television network. The Committee also notes that several hearing bodies have asked for alternative options for digital television to be introduced in Norway. The NRK has asked to have a separate multiplexer available if you choose a digital terrestrial network. The Committee understands this very much, but it requires, as I had before, at least three multiplexes to be opened up, so that also commercial actors are given the opportunity to develop new programme offers and services. The Committee notes that the issue of the number and control of multiplexes is primarily updated in the selection of terrestrial digital networks due to limited capacity. The Committee asks the Ministry to consider this in greater detail and to consider how the needs of local television can be addressed. It is important that the possibilities of local television are also explored, because choosing a satellite solution will make it very difficult for local television to do so with frequencies and distribution costs. If you invest on a digital terrestrial network, it'll be a little bit easier. The easiest thing to do with local television is to set up broadband networks. Then you can get all the way down to a thousand households per person. Channel, if that would be desirable. So there are all possibilities. The Committee has noted that the Ministry considers that a key success criterion for terrestrial digital broadcasting will be the extent to which non-NRCs would be interested in the capacity such a network can offer. This is in agreement with the Committee and refers to the fact that the NRK no longer supports the development of terrestrial digital television as its main option. This shows the need for the Ministry to now assess other platforms for the broadcasting of digital television and for the Government to coordinate its policy in this area. And then I'm thinking in particular about the investigations that are now going on in the case of broadband networks, which are important to get into this context as well. So over to this with experimentation. The Committee would stress the importance of piloting digital television via ground transmitters. A concession has been granted for the development of transmitters for technical test operations and the Committee believes that test operations should be started. This also provides opportunities to test a digital television offer to Norwegian viewers on a commercial basis. It's important that we have that opportunity open to see how this develops. The Committee has also noted the introduction of digital terrestrial television in Sweden, to which the Ministry refers in the Storing Communication. The Committee asks for the experience to be studied. So far, experience in Sweden has been poor. It's just been a failure, with less than a thousand subscribers connected to digital television the last year after this was opened, and it's invested for billions, so it's a bad investment so far in Sweden. It can change, but it's important to take those experiences with you. With regard to the legal framework and regulatory issues, the Committee agrees with the Ministry's view that digital television must be viewed in a similar way to analogue television and that it will also express the way in which this should be regulated. However, it is important to take into account the recommendations made by the Convergence Committee when considering the possible regulation of the digital television offer. The Committee also agrees with the Ministry's view that it should not be a State task to finance and develop a digital terrestrial network if it is selected for television. The Committee agrees with the Ministry's assessment of the regulatory nature of the State exposure and of ensuring good framework conditions for Norwegian public broadcasters in a digital terrestrial network. We also agree with the Ministry's assessment that the regulation and the way in which concession awards are to be conducted is linked to a possible terrestrial digital network. The Committee would then point out that this with frequency management is important, especially if you choose a digital terrestrial network, to ensure that you release as many frequencies as possible, so that, in the event of digital terrestrial television being developed, you can offer at least three multiplexes, which I have previously had. This is a minimum, the committee believes, to make such a network interesting to the viewers. The Committee agrees with the Ministry's objectives on the coverage of the two proposed multiplexes and of course asks for maximum coverage if digital terrestrial networks are selected. For example: broadband networks, there will be no particular problem if they are built across the country. We have also noted the initiatives taken to cover the whole country with fiber cable, with other cable solutions, with microwave technology, and therefore it is difficult to establish that only 75 pst. by the country's inhabitants can be reached by cable or satellite, as the ministry says. With regard to the preparedness considerations, the Committee agrees with the department's assessments but points out that the development of a digital terrestrial radio network has already been adopted, which can largely safeguard the preparedness concerns. The Committee agrees with the Ministry's assessment that the cost of the possible deployment of a terrestrial network should not be borne by the State and that the Committee welcomes the introduction of a nationwide digital television in Norway. It is important to stress, as we are now asking for a look at which transmission platforms to be selected, that Stortinget now accepts digital television, but refuses to finally decide which solution to choose.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e692	The big message we are about to deal with came after the active pressure from, among other things. The working party, which wanted this issue to be addressed in a broad context in Stortinget. The idea was to establish a standard for digitisation at an early stage, so that we could also develop an industry around this, such as we. have done in connection with mobile telephony. – A heart attack must be in these days that we get hope, if we manage, that the Swedes do not steal it from us too. In the view of the Workers' Party, the document that finally came from the Government was not suitable as a basis for making clear choices and establishing a good enough system. That's the only reason why the government has to keep working on this issue. The second reason is that at this point we have more possibilities to choose a broadcasting platform. Only in the few months that the Committee has worked on this matter has there been a development that makes it possible to see new solutions that are both cheaper and more efficient. We have time to look into it. But let me still warn against spending all the world's time. There is a danger here that satellites and other solutions will outrun the ground ends, which could lead to a lower global offer for users if we wait too long. Then it's probably the districts that would be the losers in such a situation. And it would also be a paradox if a central government council were to weaken the offerings to the districts. That is why we have seen that the time until summer is to be used to find other solutions, but then decisions must also be taken. The conclusion must be that the Council of State is acting quickly and qualitatively correctly. If we're going to implement the grounded system, we need to free up three multiplexes. This is possible, but the ministry has to take urgent action to clean up frequency use in Norway, and this has to be done now. Then we can also have the opportunity to establish a better system than what is proposed today. Of course, it is not the Ministry of Culture that is responsible for frequency use, but such a clean-up has the government's overall ability to do so. The working party also wants Norkring to be able to use the transmitters that are established so that offers to consumers can be developed at this stage. This provides opportunities to make some experience on the market. On the other hand, it is a prerequisite for such a test operation to provide detailed rules and regulations. We're going to have digital television, and we're going to have that, too. The requirements of the Government are clear: the choices to be made must be made soon. Choosing errors can cost a lot, so we need to impose both quality requirements and coordination requirements on the Government. It is unfortunate if the Minister of Culture, the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Municipal Affairs and the Minister of Industry have different solutions to this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e710	The main questions raised in the Digital Television Broadcasting Communication are whether to switch from analogue broadcasts to digital broadcasts and whether to open up the development of a terrestrial broadcasting network for digital television in Norway, or whether to instead rely on the distribution of digital signals via satellite, cable, ground or telecommunications networks. The Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs asked the Ministry of the Interior. S. No 2 for 1997-98 on the provision of a wholesale communication on implementation and funding of this. The Ministry is of the opinion that the issue of State involvement in the development of digital television needs to be considered in the light of whether it will contribute to the achievement of the media policy objectives set by the government. With digital distribution, broadcasting will have to relate to a trend driven primarily by a technology shift, which is often called convergence. Simply explained, this development implies that all content is coded in the same way and that different networks can in principle be used for the distribution of all kinds of data. Convergence therefore offers both challenges and opportunities for broadcasters. The main advantage of digitisation in broadcasting is that it increases the capacity of the networks so that it is possible to disseminate a much wider range of services. Consequently, digital networks also incur lower distribution costs than analogue networks. Today, most television broadcasts are broadcast and received in Norway using analogue technology. Therefore, very large investments must be made. An important issue in the Communication is whether an official control of the use of the terrestrial network is to be carried out. There will still be a shortage of frequencies in terrestrial networks in the foreseeable future. The Ministry therefore considers that it would be necessary to regulate the use of such a network. In addition, the Ministry of State believes that it should be a State task to ensure that Norwegian public broadcasters have an acceptable financial framework for a commitment to digital distribution of their programme offer. In a terrestrial network, there will be great restrictions on the number of channels and other services that can be provided. An important concept in this context is multiplexes. The current frequency situation allows for only two, possibly three, multiplexes in Norway. Each multiplex contains five channels. The NRK alone will dispose of one mule. This means that if such a solution is chosen, the total supply to users will be very limited and competition on the broadcasting market will also be severely restricted. So the question of digital versus analogue television. Digital television has several advantages over analogue television: It makes better use of frequency resources.It has lower distribution costs.It lowers the cost of setting up and operating.It has lower energy consumption. It provides opportunities for the receipt of ancillary services, such as: Advanced text TV, distance learning, Internet etc. However, there are several uncertainties and potential problems with the introduction of digital terrestrial television. In this context, the main economic challenges are interesting. Digital terrestrial television requires the development of a specific infrastructure, which may help broadcasters to demand the services that such an infrastructure can offer. It will be the customers who will finally have to cover the costs of developing a terrestrial network, in the form of broadcasting fees, subscription fees, etc. Digital television requires each viewer to obtain and pay for a digital decoder. A decoder is likely to cost more or less the same, regardless of its distribution form. A decoder for terrestrial consignments costs approx. 5 000 Swedish kr in Sweden. The price is likely to fall as demand increases. There will probably also be arrangements where each household either hires the necessary equipment or the equipment is seconded free of charge. Parallel analogue and digital distribution are likely to be necessary during a transitional period of at least 10 to 15 years before analogue shipments can be completed. This will be a major economic challenge for broadcasters, which will have to distribute twice during this transitional period. Based on today's technology, the company Norkring has calculated that it will be fully sound to deploy a 95 pst digital terrestrial television network. coverage. It is technically possible, but very costly, to reach the last 5 pst. by the population with today's technology. It's supposed to be the last 5 pst. will cost the same thing as for the first 95 pst. Norking is probably the only realistic option today as a network operator for a nationwide digital terrestrial television. The company is thus in a monopolistic situation. Telenor, who is the owner of Norkring, will then strengthen its position as dominant distributor of broadcasting signals in Norway. The Ministry will therefore, in consultation with the telecommunications authorities, consider how to regulate the transmission system operator for digital terrestrial television. Norkring has asked to set up a commercial test scheme with a ground-based network. This means that Norkring is allowed to determine for itself – based on a market assessment – the channels to be offered on the network. Today, this authority is assigned to the State Media Administration. The analogue terrestrial network that we have today will have huge limitations in the years to come. Firstly, the network is very worn out and will therefore in any case require a large-scale repair. Secondly, this network will not be able to provide space for multiple channels. There will be restrictions on the new technology that will in the future be necessary to offer over such a network. However, if digital expansion is adopted, it is likely to have to be transmitted by analogy over a ten-year period. Digital televisions may use the same type of distribution channels as analogue televisions: ground transmitters, cable or satellite. In addition, microwaves and telecommunications networks may be used, but these are subject to certain limitations. Digital television via satellite is a reality here to land today. In order to receive digital satellite broadcasts, viewers must subscribe to a programme card and invest in receiver equipment and hardware, such as antennas and receiver decoders. The digital offer has an entry price today that is lower than the analogue satellite offer. Digital satellite television has few limitations, and it is estimated that it will be possible to access more than a thousand digital channels. The interactive possibilities of such a network are largely equivalent to those offered by a terrestrial network. The total offer will be superior to what others will be able to offer. The biggest disadvantage of satellite transmissions is that they do not reach every place in the country. Calculations from Norkring show that approx. 20 – 25 pst. the population cannot, or will not, accept satellite broadcasts. These are broken down by approx. 2 - 3 pst. living in areas where satellite reception is not possible, approximately 10 – 15 pst. which cannot receive signals due to protection from buildings, trees, etc., and the others which are either not authorised or do not wish to set up antennas. ==References== 20 pst. the population currently has equipment for the direct reception of television signals via satellite. It is estimated that this proportion will increase by approx. 1 - 2 pst. per 1 % years in the years ahead. Digital satellite television requires the household to invest in a digital satellite antenna and decoder. With regard to the economy, it is difficult to say something exactly about the costs of setting up a digital terrestrial network today. Households wishing to switch to digital services will receive some comparable expenditure on receiving equipment, regardless of the digital distribution channel chosen. The progress party sees the need to switch to digital broadcasts, but is more uncertain whether terrestrial transmission/satellite transmission is the most ideal. However, the Progress Party will conclude that we do not see the same necessity as the Government that a digital terrestrial network should be developed. In any case, it may seem that the development will run from the terrestrial network in any case. In the future, digital satellite transmissions appear to be the most rational and flexible. It is also this offer that will be the superior offer to users, with access to an infinite number of channels and interactive possibilities. If we rely on this technology, there won't be any constraints on how many channels the population can get in. It has to be positive, even though the government clearly sees this as negative. The next question will be whether to develop a digital terrestrial network because this type of transmission will reach as much of the country's population as possible. The message states that in any case you will not be able to get 100 pst. coverage regardless of the type of transmission chosen, but the coverage will be slightly higher with a terrestrial network than with satellite transmission. The question then arises about the consideration of the 2 – 3 pst. by the population who cannot obtain the satellite, the weight of the total supply to the population and the costs thereof shall be decisive. If such a view is taken, digital satellite transmissions will provide the best offer in both number of channels and cost. In addition, today there is technology which, with some expansion, makes it possible to reach nearly 100 pst. of the satellite population. With regard to the preparedness side, the Norwegian authorities will be able to enter into an agreement with a broadcaster to transfer in such situations, irrespective of the type of transfer chosen. If necessary, this can be regulated by law. Finally, I would like to put forward the proposal of the Advance Party, which reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to authorise Norkring to launch a commercial testing scheme of a ground-based network in relation to digital broadcasts.’ As the President has probably discovered, the proposal of the Progress Party does not appear correctly on page 14 of the vote, but it is correct on page 12. I assume that it will be arranged in such a way that the proposal on page 14 will be complete, thus promoting the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e784	The President shall do all she can to ensure that the proposal is corrected when it is to be voted on. The representative of Bredvold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e789	The issue of the development of digital television in Norway has become a highly topical issue, although there is currently some uncertainty about some road choices that need to be made in the future in relation to this development. It is precisely these choices that are difficult, not least technologically, and it will require new investigations before we can make these choices. The rapporteur, Mr Trond Helleland, has now given a good account of the whole of the Committee's understanding, and it is really not that much to add. I did not intend to say that much in addition to a few comments. The rapporteur has had a good hand in this work, and everyone agrees that digital television is coming, that it should be introduced and that it should also cover the whole country, i.e. be nationwide. There is no doubt that digital technology has many advantages, including: opportunities to provide more services through better use of scarce frequency resources. It will bring lower costs per year. channel, better quality of signals, etc. The Government’s Storing Notice has been a good base document as far as it could reach. I also note with satisfaction that the Committee has largely adhered to the Government's assessments. The problem is that in this field there is no obvious loop that one can follow without further ado. The Committee has been in England and looked into the development there. We have learned a lot during the process of digital television, and we have not least also received some information from Sweden, which is mentioned. Although conditions are different in different countries, not least the negative experience gained in Sweden in developing an terrestrial digital network has made us aware. Much of the uncertainty is well at the root of the potential to achieve the necessary profitability through land-based expansion. The fact that the NRK has also changed its view has contributed to the Committee's slightly cautious position. The comments in the setting were intended to give the necessary and possible signals at this stage. However, questions that need to be further investigated before further progress can be made relate in particular to which transmission platform should be chosen, and not least to the possibilities of using fibre networks as well as possible combination solutions between, for example. cable and terrestrial networks, so-called hybrid networks, also clarifying various operator responsibilities. The review of the Convergence Committee, which was just presented, will also be a central and very important document in view of the further process of developing the digital communication technology in Norway, not least with regard to regulatory aspects. Finally, I just want to express my faith that the Government will add the necessary seriousness to the further work on these questions. I refer to the Committee's comments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e806	It is important to state that the main principle for the development of television in Norway is the development of a good public broadcaster with a nationwide, Norwegian-language television offer. This tradition wants the Center Party to continue. Digital technology will open up a range of additional services in addition to the inclusion of different television channels. Different media will increasingly look at the large potentials of this. Today, national channels have good coverage. Technical progress is fast, and the message assesses first-line issues related to terrestrial digital distribution of television signals. The centre party, in agreement with the Committee, is in favour of the introduction of nationwide digital television in Norway. When it comes to the sender platform, we do not want to make a decision about it yet. The Ministry, in cooperation with market players, must continue to work on this issue, and there is no doubt that very rapid progress is being made in this area now. In Sweden they all seem to have different thoughts after just one year of experience with terrestrial television. The experience gained in this field should also serve as a basis for further consideration by the Ministry. I think it's important to be aware that developments are now moving so fast that it can be difficult to identify what will be the ideal solutions. We have also noticed that the NRK, which has so far been one of the drivers for developing terrestrial digital networks in Norway, no longer has such an extension as its main option. It is also important to note that, in consultation with the Committee and in its own notes, the NRK is asking for the possibility of broadband networks to be extended before taking a final position on the development of a terrestrial digital television network. The parties agree that the State shall not be responsible for the financing and development of digital terrestrial television networks. The State's role here should be to have a prudent regulation of the operation. At the same time, the State must manage available frequencies and be responsible for the award of concessions. The important thing is to ensure good framework conditions for public broadcasters. It is also important to be aware that analogue transmissions have to continue until the digital network has received satisfactory coverage – it has been mentioned for 10–15 years here. The work on opening up solutions and common standards will also be important for the public's willingness to invest in new television technologies. Otherwise, broadcasters play an important role as information providers in the event of natural disasters, in crisis and war situations. The choice of technical solution for the transmission of digital television must also focus on these issues, in order to ensure that the people are informed in crisis situations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e821	I am pleased that the main features of the digital television broadcast communication have been endorsed by the Committee. For the Ministry of Culture, it is a key challenge to ensure a good Norwegian-language television offer based on the principles of public broadcasting, which benefits the entire population. This is also the case with regard to the evaluation of digital television. The Ministry has assumed that it is the broadcasters themselves who must choose the form of distribution which they consider most appropriate. The Ministry of Culture considers that it should not be a State task to finance and develop a digital terrestrial television network, which several of the representatives have been involved in this debate. In other words, the State involvement will be: facilitate the appropriate regulation of the activities of such networked managed available frequencies in the network for the allocation of concessions in networked secure Norwegian public broadcasters sufficiently good framework conditions for developing and disseminating programme activities in the network, inter alia. through the direct ownership of the country in the NRK A majority of the Committee considers that temporary testing of a commercial offer over terrestrial networks should be opened in order to gain experience in this respect. It must be a prerequisite for such an activity that Norwegian legislation is taken into account for the broadcasts and that Norwegian public broadcasters are not excluded from participation. It must also be a prerequisite for the possibility of applying for a concession to be published. As for digital radio, the significant capacity must be used for broadcasting. I want to base this on the further work. The Committee asks the Ministry to continue its work on the selection of a broadcasting platform in cooperation with the various market actors, stressing the need to focus further on clarification of a fibre network investment or any other technical solutions. The Government has set up a working group to assess the needs and costs of such a fibre network. The Group shall end work in April next year. In other words, the government is working quickly on the matter, but we also have to work hard to make wise choices and make sure that we don't end up in a technology trap. The complexity of this area is great, which is also clearly reflected in the setting. I have otherwise noticed that the Committee believes that further frequency release should be considered so that a third multiplex can be offered by the possible development of digital terrestrial television. I'd like to take this up with the frequency authorities -- we'll actually start those discussions already tomorrow. I take note of the comments of the majority of the committee and will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way on the development of digital television.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e849	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e852	I just wanted to make a comment on the post from the representative Fossum, who would like to have a solution in place before the summer break. The Committee has certainly not set a deadline. We want a quick treatment, but to conclude now that the matter is going to be back in Stortinget before the summer vacation, I personally feel a little strong, because we know that this is difficult, as the Council of State just underlined. I want it to go quickly, but what I would most encourage the Government, and the representative Fossum was also involved, is that the work on broadband expansion, or different solutions to wire the country in relation to large data transfer capacity, is being forced. Options have now been submitted, including: from the NHO that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has received, and I know that the Ministry of Local Affairs is in the process of investigating. The important thing here is that you get some clarifications on these questions quickly, so that you know what you're dealing with, and that the Storting gets the opportunity to discuss them. One must also ensure that this, which intervenes in so many departments, is presented in a way that allows the Storting to relate to it, also a little independent of the committee boundaries. These are things that slip into each other, and it is important that the Storting now gets a grip on how they should be treated. Otherwise, I would like to ask for a review of the regulatory issues related to what the State Media Administration is going to do, what the Postal and Telecommunications Authority is going to do, who is going to control the multiple, who is going to direct the electronic programme guide, etc. if a digital terrestrial network is selected, because this is particularly the case where these are important questions. If one chooses other solutions, the capacity is so much larger that it will not be the important and central issues. However, if one chooses a digital terrestrial network, it is important to both release frequency resources while at the same time providing a clear review of the regulatory framework around them. All in all, I hope and believe that Norway will now become a leading country in using modern technology, and that we can take advantage of this opportunity, where the introduction of digital television is one element, to become a superpower when it comes to interactive communication across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e864	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1554]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e878	St. pp. No 96 for 1998-99 concerns various amendments to Protocol 37 to the EEA Agreement and Annex X to the EEA Agreement on audiovisual services. So to the Directive: Like previous directives, the Directive aims to allow the free movement of television broadcasts. The Directive contains minimum rules and each EEA State will continue to have access to detailed or stricter rules within its jurisdiction in the fields covered by the Directive. A new definition of broadcasters and teleshopping is introduced and the definition of advertising is slightly changed. The European quota scheme is adjusted to a lesser extent. It introduces a new provision on the right to take national measures, some of which have the exclusive right to attend important events of major social importance. The aim is to provide viewers with the opportunity to follow events at no additional cost and on high coverage channels. The Directive regulates teleshopping and introduces a distinction between teleshopping spots and teleshopping windows. Norwegian law also needs to be amended to comply with the provisions of the Directive at some points. Act on broadcasting of 4 December 1992 No 127 must be amended in the light of the definition of a broadcaster in Article 1b of the Directive and the extension of the definition of advertising, as set out. Article 1c. The right of appeal of third parties concerned under Article 3(3) of the Directive. 3 and the regulation of exclusive rights for special events in Article 3a will, together with Article 22, 2 and No 3 on the protection of minors is proposed by law. The Progress Party is very critical of some of the details covered by the Directive that are imposed on the Member States. In the opinion of the Progress Party, part of the content of the Directive is unnecessarily detailed, and this is not necessary in areas where, in our view, there is no need for similar standards between countries. Large parts of the Directive are of such a nature that countries themselves should be free to regulate these matters. As an example of this, the Progress Party will refer to Section 3-1 of the Act on Advertising, and in particular to the rules on self-advertising. In addition, the Progress Party considers that the rules on self-advertising are unnecessary in detail and will have a major impact on the advertising channels financed. The Progress Party therefore supports the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to renegotiate the rules on self-advertising for broadcasters, cf. Article 19a of the Directive.’;» The Party also opposes the introduction of rules on how much time advertising can take off the total transmission time per year. day(s) In the opinion of the Progress Party, it should be for each company to assess the amount of advertising it wishes to send. The Progress Party therefore also supports the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to renegotiate the Directive’s rules on the maximum duration of advertising broadcasts per year. Date, cf. Article 18 of the Directive. ‘... Furthermore, it appears to be very regrettable that the EEA Agreement is used to prevent an industry from developing in line with market wishes and needs. Norway should work towards unnecessary detailed management and rather contribute to ensuring an external regulatory framework that can thus ensure effective competition. The Progress Party sees the need for some events to be made available to the public and therefore considers that international rules are necessary to ensure this. However, the Progress Party would point out that it must be very careful to include many events in these rules, because there may be considerable disagreement as to what should be regarded as an important event for each of us and for the country in general. The Progress Party is initially sceptical about rules undermining the governance that the organisers themselves must have over their own events, including obtaining market prices for their own rights. The Progress Party therefore considers that Norway should contribute as much as possible to the ability of rightholders to sell their rights at market prices. I am promoting the two proposals of the Progress Party, as they appear on page 2 of the vote. I would otherwise warn that the Progress Party will vote against the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e915	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has drawn up the suggestions he made right for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e918	This is a case that in a slightly different form also comes up in Odelstinget later today. I would therefore just like to say briefly that when the Progress Party asks for a renegotiation with the EU on this matter in relation to the EEA, the Right considers that this is a consequence of Norway’s failure to join the EU, without the possibility to influence and limit the detailed regulation of what is proposed here. I note that it is of course in Norway’s interest to have the greatest possible impact. We don't have that when we sit on the side line. The consequence here is that there will be such detailed regulations that I can agree to go too far. Otherwise, I will come back to this matter when we discuss it in Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e925	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Food, see page 1554]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e939	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Worker's Party 10 minutes, Progress Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left together 10 minutes, Right 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, and Representative Benn Mikalsen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers for each party group and after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e950	The setting currently applies to Parts IV and V of St.meld. No 37 for 1998-99, an additional message to St.meld. No 46 for 1997-98, the notification of petroleum. Part IV concerns the report of the Investment Committee. Part V deals with the cost excesses in the Åsgard chain. The Investment Committee was appointed on 29 August 1998, including: because significant increases in costs have been incurred in many expansion projects compared to the budgeted estimate. The committee would also assess the intentions and preliminary results of the NORSOK cooperation. The committee's report shows that for the 13 projects over the period 1994-98, which the Investment Committee has looked at in particular, there has been an exceedance of DKK 29.9 billion at the time the sample submitted its report. These exceedances amount to approx. 27 pst. in relation to the basis of the plans for deployment and operation. Perhaps the most striking thing is that drilling costs account for about one third of the cost overruns. For some of the projects, the increase in costs is also the result of the rightholders wishing to make additional investments that have contributed to increased profitability. The Committee endorses the recommendations of the Committee on Actions. Most of the measures proposed by the sample have to be addressed and implemented by the industry itself, but it is also the responsibility of the authorities for action. The Committee also endorses these measures and stresses the importance of reducing costs at all stages of the oil industry without causing any deterioration in, inter alia, the situation. health, environment and safety considerations. The report of the Investment Committee will form part of the experience gained from the work on the notification of petroleum, which is planned to be submitted to the Stortinget in spring 2000. I assume that the specific comments are presented by the respective batches. Exceedances of the costs of the Åsgard projects are serious, so serious that the Department deposed the Board of Directors and the Group Manager chose to resign. It may seem that the projects have been without economic governance. Since the development of the Åsgard projects was approved by the Stortinget in 1996, cost increases of nearly DKK 18 billion have been reported in total. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Left, point out that cost increases have occurred in most sub-projects and in a large number of budget lines during the development period up to now. On the one hand, the increase in costs may be due to the construction of larger and more installations on Kårstø than in the original plans and, on the other hand, the under-budgeting of costs. On the other hand, this majority is aware that this project has focused on solutions such as envisaged major technological developments. The uncertainty and risks in this respect were too small. Despite the large cost increases in projects in the Åsgard chain, the development is still profitable. The Committee assumes that the completion of the projects under the new cost framework is given top priority. The Committee has raised questions as to whether the Ministry has had sufficient follow-up to the projects, as announced by the Council of State in November 1997. The majority of the Committee – the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Right and the SV – cannot see that it has been proved that the Ministry has had such close contact as has previously been announced, and there is uncertainty as to whether the Ministry has had sufficient quality control of the information and cost allocation received by the Ministry and, as mentioned above, has resulted in a cost increase of nearly DKK 18 billion. The majority of the Committee considers that there are still aspects to the Åsgard case which should be assessed in greater detail, including the decision-making process, the access to information, the follow-up of the project by the Ministry and the other parties. The majority assume that the Riksrevision is aware of these issues, and the majority consider that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee is responsible for the control of this matter by the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e982	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e985	We're dealing with, as the case-speaker said here, an excess of 18 billion kroner. One might say that 11 billion of them would be direct losses in relation to the treasury, and for such an amount could be an example. So I'm going to give you 3,300 headcounts for 3,3 million. kr. So in that area, the multiples here don't have the ability to make priorities; when this is the case, one just has to pay the bill. For many years SV has proposed a tempo selection, precisely to be able to control the pace of oil investment in order to ensure stable employment, to ensure that it is safe and secure, and, of course, to ensure that the environment is cared for. Then I believe, among other things. that the crisis that one has now experienced in the yard industry would be a good deal less. SV is also involved in a very critical remark in relation to the government's follow-up when it concerns Åsgard. We think it's all right to go in and see if you can learn some of the errors that you've just done. My question to the Workers' Party is about one now, based on that comment, acknowledges that there should have been a different governance of the enterprise in the previous years – even when one put in position itself – by not allowing the market to control, but seven in order to have a pace so that it was possible to control cost developments to an entirely different degree from now – this in view of future projects.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e996	Yes, it's always nice to be able to say that money could have been used for something other than just being paid out, as Hallgeir Langeland says, and I assume that in some way he refers to some kind of after-school clock. He's been critical of the Temporal Committee. As I can remember reading the setting when the Åsgard projects were approved in Stortinget, there was a great deal of agreement about the Åsgard projects. It is possible that SV had a different and reserved attitude to this, but let me say so that in retrospect, when the oil money comes in according to the rate you have built into, it does not seem that SV has any reservations about using the funds.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1001	The representative Blattmann referred from the majority’s comments, stating that ‘there are still aspects of the Åsgard case that should be further considered’. I would like to ask the representative Blattmann if she thinks that what happened before 15 December 1995 should also be considered, and what happened before the Storttinget approved the project on 14 June 1996. The representative Blattmann also mentioned that it has not been as close to contact as it was promised, and that it has not been good enough quality control either. I would like to ask the representative Blattmann to say a little more about what is the basis of these remarks. What is the basis for her informing me that it has not been as close as promised?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1010	Let me quote what is in the majority comment that the representative Rise is now aiming for: ‘The majority therefore consider that there are still aspects to the Åsgard case which should be assessed in greater detail, including the decision-making process, the information process, the follow-up of the project by the Ministry and the other parties.’ When it comes to assessing the decision-making process, I clearly see that it must also include the decisions taken when the project was adopted in Stortinget. And as for the fact that it doesn't seem like the project has been followed up closely enough, it's my view that if the project had been followed closely enough, we would, I think, have gotten information about these cost excesses at an earlier stage. And the information that has come has finally resulted in an exceedance of NOK 18 billion. Now it's actually not up to Stortingen to consider what kind of information system the department chooses. The relationship with Stortinget is that you are being properly briefed, and that the Department and the Council of State have a tool to inform and do their job.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1020	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1023	In recent years, there have been a number of expansion projects on Norwegian continental shelf which have had huge overruns. This was also the background to the creation of the so-called Investment Committee to clarify what was going on, and hopefully to analyse some of the causes. The report from this sample shows that for 13 development projects that the sample has seen from the period 1994-98, there had been an average cost excess of 27 pst. in relation to what was taken into account in the plans for deployment and operation, the PUD. It is also stated in the report that part of the exceedances is due to increases in costs, given that the rightholders have sought additional investment to increase the profitability of the projects and that increased drilling costs are also a significant part of the increased costs. In addition, the report claims that a horizontal feature of these projects was that the decision base was weak when development was started, and development and operational plans were approved. The Åsgard project is one of the expansion projects where the excess costs have been enormous, and unfortunately it seems that we haven't seen the end of this yet. Of course, some of the exceedances in this project may also be due to what I mentioned earlier, but it is obvious that there has also been a lack of follow-up, cost control and overview in this project. Nor should it be forgotten that in the development of the Åsgard chain, the state is, through its large holdings through the DIEE, heavily exposed to the significant exceedances that have taken place. An overall committee takes a serious view of the large cost exceedances of this project and draws further attention to the major challenges that remain in completing development within the existing plans and deadlines. And a large majority of the committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, Right and SV, is also not satisfied that the department has had close contact with and follow-up to this project, as it has previously been claimed. There is considerable uncertainty as to whether the Ministry has had sufficient quality control of the information and cost estimates received by the Ministry, as new and substantial overruns have still emerged despite the alleged close follow-up by the Ministry. I hope that the clear signals from Stortinget are taken seriously, so that in the future we can avoid exceedances in this enormous order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1036	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1040	There is an overall committee that has expressed concern about the significant exceedances that have occurred in the context of the Åsgard development, and it is therefore also an overall committee that sees the need for a review of the entire project. I expect that the Progress Party will also see the need to go back to the time of decision, and that you will also be willing to go into the follow-up immediately after the project was started in 1995 and forward. This is a point which I would like to ask Mr Vaksdal to clarify in connection with the comments that the Progress Party has with the Right, where it says: ‘It has been pointed out that the composition may have contributed to the lack of adequate illumination of certain conditions.’ Could the representative, Mr Vaksdal, clarify what aspects may not have been clarified and how he believes that the composition of the Committee on Investments should appear?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1052	Brother Yngve Rahm was involved in the composition of this selection. I just want to say briefly that it is stated in the note that the composition “may” have affected that not everything has been illuminated, but it has not been claimed that everything has not been illuminated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1057	The Progress Party has with it, among others. The Right Party and the Workers' Party have been driven to have a high rate of oil business, and that is to say, they have been drivers when it comes to creating uncertainties about some projects. The result of this drive can be seen in a few ways. Today, where we get a bill back to the Norwegian people at approx. NOK 11 billion. Based on the Progress Party's policy to reduce public spending, this should be just a matter that made them think about when it comes to oil tempo. So my question as the Progress Party is also involved in the critical remark is: Will there now be a new policy from the Progress Party's side, one of which is also concerned with the large bills that come after the oil extraction project? And does this mean that they want to take part in a debate about reducing the pace of oil business in the North Sea, and have a pace that is more defensive and more in the deal with the mess we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1064	The representative of Langeland claims that the Progress Party has been the driver of a high rate of oil extraction on Norwegian continental shelf. I just want to remind you that there has been a broad consensus in this house about the pace we have had on Norwegian pedestal, so there is no Progress Party either in the breeze or at the end. It is a broad majority who have wished for the pace we have had. The Progress Party does not want to slow down the pace we have, and we are also not satisfied that there is pressure on the pace that is the reason why we are discussing major exceedances today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1071	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1074	The background to the establishment of the Investment Committee was known as the large cost exceedances on the Norwegian base. The report shows that there has been an exceedance of 27 p.m. in relation to what was taken into account in the development and operation plan of the projects under consideration by the sample. Increased drilling costs and additional investments are the main cause of the excess costs. The Centre Parties stress that further efforts are being made to reduce costs at all stages of the business, while maintaining the objectives and conditions set for the business, including: in relation to health, environment and safety. As regards the evaluation of the measures proposed by the Committee on Investments, it is natural that the industry itself should decide on the implementation of many of these measures. However, it is natural that the authorities also follow up, for example: in the case of improvements in the relationship between the actors. A new development and operational plan guide — PUD and site and operational plan — PAD will also be developed. It will be foreseen that rightholders will be able to receive answers to development requests that meet the requirements of simplified administration, within eight weeks of the submission of the PUD. According to the Investment Committee, there has been a continuous feature for the projects that the decision base was weak when the development was started and development and operational plans were approved. It is important to reduce the uncertainty in the estimates for the development plan while preserving the autonomy of the authorities. We therefore see it as an important follow-up that every year the Ministry provides the Stortinget with an overall explanation of the cost and profitability development of the individual projects in which the plant and operation plan is delivered. Exceedances of costs associated with the development of Åsgard have been significant, but it is important to point out that there is no imputability of individual events or demarcated circumstances. Cost increases have occurred in most sub-projects during the development period. The expansion has been very large and very complicated. It represents the largest underwater installation carried out anywhere in the world at a location that poses major challenges in terms of pressure and temperature. However, this does not alter the fact that exceedances are high and that it has therefore been necessary to follow developments particularly closely. The seriousness of the exceedances is supported by the fact that the owner, as a general meeting, has held responsibility with the board of Statoil. In the case of exceedances, it is important to look at the project as a whole. The basis for the project and the development of costs was laid before the company's development plans were submitted to the Ministry on 15 December 1995. A full review of the project may therefore be important in view of the further assessment of the development. This must also include an assessment of whether the decision-making basis available was sufficient when the project was approved at Stortinget in June 1996. In this regard, we have noted statements from Statoil's board that several of the underlying assumptions were too optimistic. It is also natural in this case to refer to the letter of reply sent from the Minister of Oil and Energy to the Committee. This letter shows that the Ministry has followed this project very closely. A specific mechanism is in place whereby the Ministry meets representatives of Statoil's management as soon as new cost updates are available to be briefed on them. The Åsgard project has also been specifically followed up by the Oil Directorate. It is also central in this context that, in order to ensure a thorough study of the development of the Åsgard project, the Investment Committee was set up. Thus, cost developments in the Åsgard chain have been subject to a very close follow-up by the department. In the light of the significant exceedances, it is natural that a more thorough assessment of cost developments takes into account the whole project. I also note that this has been endorsed in the majority's comment, with the interpretation we received from the representative Blattmann. It also provides an assessment of the decision-making basis available at the 1996 review.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1095	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1098	I have understood that the cooperating parties in the Government cannot participate in the majority opinion of the Right, Labour Party, Advance Party and SV. Now I understood the representative Rise so that he could possibly imagine going into this comment anyway. It is possible that I have misunderstood him, but I do not understand why not the representative Rise and the cooperating parties in the Government can join the majority comment here: ‘The majority therefore consider that there are still aspects to the Åsgard case which should be assessed in greater detail, including the decision-making process, the information process, the follow-up of the project by the Ministry and the other parties.’ It was supposed to be completely harmless, and it's full opportunity for the government parties to join this. It'll be a little bit more credible if they do it rather than stand on the side line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1108	I get to take this challenge on a tight arm and just say that the representative Johnsen is also welcome to review the comments of the government parties. I just want to say a little bit about the background because we didn't join these majority remarks. In this respect, the majority considers that ‘there are still aspects of the Åsgard case that should be further assessed’. We found it necessary to express our desire to have an assessment of the entire project. I also think there is reason to point out that when you write ‘including the decision-making process’, it can also be interpreted as meaning the decision-making process that is ongoing in the decision-making group. That is why I asked the representative Blattmann about how to interpret this. I was then given a good answer, which is that the majority interprets the decision-making process as both the preparation of the decision-making basis prior to the submission of the plans by the department, and that the Stortinge took the decision and approved the project. That's how I understood the representative Blattmann. Then my counter-question must be: why can't the majority join the remark from the government parties, where we clarify exactly what we mean by a full review of the project? There are differences in Norwegian language usage and understanding that the majority believe that it is the ‘pages of the Åsgard case that should be considered’ and that the ‘full review of the project’ will be carried out from the beginning to the end.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1117	Now the majority have actually made this comment, and it was natural, if one agreed with what it said, that the government parties had joined the majority comment, because then this would have been much stronger. Otherwise, I would like to comment on the comments of the government parties, reminding Stortinget that it is Statoil's representative in the steering committee who is to take care of the interests of the state in the management of the projects. Does this mean that you are somehow blaming Statoil or exempting the Department and the Council of State from their responsibility to obtain the necessary information?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1124	We don't blame Statoil, but it was actually necessary to make some clarifications after the majority in a note makes a large number of how bad the follow-up has been from the department. You write: ‘For example, the Ministry did not attend more than half of the Steering Committee meetings, despite the fact that the Ministry itself considered that participation in all these meetings was part of the close follow-up.’ It is therefore important to clarify that the representative of the Department of this Committee has not had the right to speak or to vote. It is only an actual fact that we state that it is Statoil's representative in the Steering Committee who has had the right to speak and to vote on behalf of the State. That doesn't mean you blame Statoil. But it seems that the majority have misunderstood how the state has followed up its interests through the Steering Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1135	I think the center party would've been kind of excited not to add a defense speech to their own comment, as they actually do. I don't think the Council of States initially needs the defensive speech they have in that note. I think they're trying to cover the problem somehow. I think in this case, I'm just going to do what the multiple here points out, get a thorough review at all levels. Then you'll find out that there's not only a center property here. It's about a story that goes way back. Then I thought this comment from the center party would be a little weird, not least that of Statoil as a representative of the board. I'd like to add a comment to that. The second is related to the tempo problem in general, which I have been in several times already, and which I believe is important to understand the bill that the Norwegian people now receive, in relation to the excesses of 18 billion kroner – not least when one knows how many good purposes it is to spend those money on, for example. within the school. When the Christian People's Party was not in government, they had a reasonable critical hold at an uplifted pace in the North Sea. My question is, will a new system of management of the projects be changed in time, so that there is no risk of getting such bills as we are discussing here today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1144	The representative Langeland asked if we had not been served with a common remark. I can actually agree with that. I think it would have been okay if we could have got together on a common note. Now it was put up for confrontation on the part of the majority – at least from individual parties that participate in the formation of the majority. I noticed, among other things. that the representative, Stoltenberg, moved out into the media both the day before and the same day and offered up for confrontation. When we heard what interpretations were given in the majority comment, it appeared necessary to respond by providing some factual information. We have tried not to be polemic in any way, but to provide some actual information and have been told that we support a full review of the project. But it is not quite clear that this is what you want in the majority's remarks. But we have confirmed that here today, and I think it has been useful that we now find that we agree that we want a full review of the project. Then the representative of Langeland is at the investment level. It is clear that one cannot ignore the fact that the high level of investment has been part of the explanation of the large exceedance. That it includes, inter alia: Maybe it's been hard to find all the skills you need to develop 70 billion DKK in one year, says yourself, and it might be more expensive when you're going to have a lot of big expansions at the same time. With the fall in investment we've now had, it's probably not the most urgent need we have now, if I can be allowed to remind the representative of Langeland of that. Now the problem is that we could have wanted more activity at some yards.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1153	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1156	The intention of the Investment Committee was to find reasons for the large cost excesses on the base and to find proposals that could help to avoid large cost exceedances in the future. Whether the analysis of the sample is correct and whether the proposals put forward are sufficient will only show the future. The right concern is that this report also does not focus on the main problem, namely the basic assumptions for excess costs. In the setting, the Right has pointed to a number of elements of the framework conditions that may help to reduce cost focus on the socket. Let me just make a cross-reference: the tax system, the significant state ownership of the socket, the fragmented ownership of the licenses and the concentration of the operator on the socket. To give an example of how the framework conditions reduce the cost focus: if an operator has only 10 pst. in the current licence and in the full tax position, the company will increase its efficiency by 100 million. I only have 2 million kroner left. kr of the gain. It should be clear that such framework conditions do not stimulate too little efficiency on the base. The right assumes that the Government will return to these issues in connection with the notified petroleum message. When the majority of the Grand Duchy directs the attention of the National Audit Board and the Grand Duchy's Control Committee to the Åsgard case, it underlines the seriousness of the case. The majority of the population does not feel confident that all aspects of this matter have been highlighted. The Committee has sent a number of letters to the Council of State. The Council's answers have raised as many questions as they have given us an answer. Enlightening the decision-making process, the information process and the follow-up to the project better than we have so far is important in order to bring this matter to an end, but also in order to avoid similar issues in the future. And let me stress: this case is about far more than who has participated in what meetings. The issue is that the majority does not feel confident that all aspects of the Åsgard case have been highlighted. We want to see the quality assurance of the information provided by the department and the consequences of the information received in the department. The Council of State, such as the General Assembly of Statoil, had a consequence, and it is perhaps the ultimate consequence that can be drawn, namely that responsibility was assumed with the government of Statoil. But the question is, what did you do before you took the ultimate consequence that can be drawn, namely, that you assume responsibility? On several occasions, the right has raised concerns about the large cost exceedances in the Åsgard chain. In particular, the large exceedances are worrying because the State is so heavily exposed through the significant share of the EEAS. This means that the state and taxpayers will be left with much of the bill for the large exceedances. This case again illustrates the risks that the State and the taxpayers are exposed to through significant State ownership. However, this is a general problem, which we will be able to come back to during this spring's debate on the partial privatisation of Statoil and a new organisation of the EEAS.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1173	In the 1990s, SV has been very critical to the high rate of oil extraction. We have constantly criticised the most extensive parties – the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Workers' Party – to keep a pace too fast. This has been done on the basis of both environmental policy and security policy objections. We have therefore proposed a tempo selection several times, in order to have a stronger control of the activity in the North Sea, among others. based on economic arguments. In Swedish we believe that if this had been carried out, and if the Storting had taken the time to discuss the high pace we have had until now, and which has sometimes led to excesses and sometimes actually also to accidents, then I don't think we would have stood here with the heavy bill that we send to the Norwegian people per. today. Nor do I believe that we had had such a strong crisis that we have seen trends within the supplier and yard industries. Unfortunately, there is a post-war clock today, but we cannot avoid mentioning it. We have had an investment selection such as: has gone through the Åsgard project, and one sees that one has used people who have been at the centre, among other things. in Statoil. For coming selections, we think it must be an advantage for the Council of States to look closely at and try to create a selection that people can trust most. SV has joined a number of committees that come up with criticism of the Government, but also come up with general criticism of project development in the North Sea, which requires a proper review of the Riksaudition and of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to ensure a restructuring, to look at the processes we have, to look at the governance models we have, so that a guard against similar cases in the future. It is true that there will be more possibilities due to fewer projects, but it is still important to have a review. SV is very often shut up because we spend a lot of money on school, and that is, of course, quite unfair. Rather, we might say that those who should have been shut up are those who have our proponents that we have lost a net of NOK 11 billion per person. Today, which could have just been used for some of what SV has been criticized for, simply to bet on the school. We can only think of the teacher’s wages that we complain about. One could increase the payment for each of the 94 000 annual works we have, by NOK 11,000 every year for 10 years, if we had at our disposal these 11 billion dollars. This is after-taste, but it's important to bring it forward in view of the pace that has been in the North Sea, and that has been governed mainly by the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1186	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1189	SV gets a lot shut up," says Hallgeir H. Langeland. I'll say it like this: SV needs a lot of shut up! The easy way of dealing with jobs that SV performs from this pulpit seems to me to be a disclaimer of responsibility. It's okay enough that they haven't gone in order to get people unemployed in the yard and in connection with the oil industry, but right now there are thousands of workers who are unemployed in this industry. It would have been better for the representative of Langeland to talk about these, rather than the teachers and their salaries. We're all concerned about them, but we're talking about the oil industry right now. I am asking for the commitment SV should have had for the jobs that are gradually empty on the yards and within the oil industry. Had we had the ongoing Hallgeir H. Langeland that we usually have with regard to the unemployed, we would have heard something quite different here than what we hear today. This is a crazy situation we now have in the oil sector, in the yard industry – a crazy situation, among other things. SV has been on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1196	The representative Johnsen has a habit of listening when I'm making articles. This time he's failed a little bit. The main point to talk about, among other things. Tempo and tempo selection, were just to illustrate that it is the representative Jan Johnsen and Right and the other drivers at a high pace, and thus a large volume in the shipbuilding and supplier industries, who are responsible for one today having a high unemployment rate within that industry. For this reason, SV has provided action packages for this industry in its budget. Had a slower pace in the 1990s, one had not had the great need to do anything in the yard and supplier industries. The responsibility is the Right that must be taken, along with the other two most elaborate parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1203	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1206	The rapporteur, Mr Blattmann, explained the views of the Labour Party on the report of the Committee on Investment and the development of the Åsgard project. I will just add some reflections and comments in addition to what Mr Blattmann has already said on behalf of the Workers' Party. First, I would like to stress that the Åsgard project was and is a milestone in Norwegian petroleum activity. It brought the gas operations to full force in the Norwegian Sea, resulting in the development of extensive transport systems linked to the Norwegian Sea to the North Sea, and this was an important and historic project in relation to moving the centre of gravity of Norwegian petroleum activities northwards. Therefore, there was also broad political support for the project when it was discussed in spring 1996. There was hardly any attention to the cost estimates and the uncertainty surrounding it. What we discussed mainly was the CO2 emissions, whether there was more or less CO2 emissions in the world in total by expanding the Åsgard project. At the same time, it was clear that the project was technologically advanced, that it was technologically new work, and it was therefore also concerned with uncertainty, both technologically and economically. It has been found in retrospect that the uncertainty was so absolute and that there have been some significant overruns. It is quite correct, as many have pointed out, and as is also stated in the statement, that the excess costs are due to many different circumstances and are linked to many different factors. On the one hand, they are linked to the fact that we are talking about a larger and more comprehensive project, and on the other hand, it is quite wrong to use the word ‘exceeds’ – it is an extension of the project. On the one hand, it is in the classical sense that investments, businesses, measures and projects have become more expensive than originally foreseen, and it is through many stages and over a long period that this has happened. Therefore, it is not the opinion of the majority of the committee – and at least not the opinion of the Labour Party – that we today have certainty that everything was excellent and that everything was fine as long as the Labour Party was in the government offices, and that the excess costs and problems started the day after the government change. Here, it is obvious that there may have been problems over a long period of time, also related to the decision-making basis. It is not the task of the Committee on Energy and the Environment to examine in detail how the Riksrevision should view this project. Nor is it strictly the task of the Energy Committee to assign the tasks of the National Audit Office. The National Auditor defines what it wants to do on its own. It is in this case that, if anyone is going to think anything about it, the control committee is going to do it. The majority of the committee's position today is not to describe a specific mandate for the Riksrevision, but only to assume that the Supervisory Boards of the Grand Duchy will now examine this matter further, because we believe that there is no longer an ordinary committee case in a normal committee. It is about a much more detailed review of the details of the project, which we simply believe this committee is not suitable to do. This is a matter for the Energy and Environment Committee, and then the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or the National Audit Office, will follow up the matter. When I say it this way, it's because this correspondence and discussion about whether it's been a close follow-up, etc., in a way illustrates that the committee, with the apparatus and resources at our disposal, is not fit to carry out the review that the Riksrevision is likely to make of the project. For example, this is a case in point. about: What is a close follow-up? Well, we don't have a very precise view of that in the committee, we've just noticed that the media are still producing new information, like that. the Ministry has expressed that part of the close follow-up — it was actually the main point of the note describing this that the media have come up with — was participation in the steering committee. Then it also appeared in today's business that one had participated in something like half the meetings. So they say it's not essential. We don't have any strong opinions about that. The main point is at least that as we have seen that the close follow-up has been described, it has not been followed up. But to follow this in all the details, whether participation in meetings and who has dealt with what information at what time, there is a matter that belongs more to the Control Committee or the National Audit Board than to the Energy Committee. And that's what's the main message in the setting today, when we finish the case from our committee. Finally, I just want to say that this is a serious matter. That's also what the government has marked by delegating the government to Statoil, and that's why we also assume that the authorities of the Storting will follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1221	In recent years we have experienced a significant and worrying increase in the cost of development projects in the oil sector. That is why I chose to set up the so-called Investment Committee in August 1998 to look at the reason for these increases. The increase in investment is due both to the increase in the size of projects, some of which have been involved, and – what has been particularly worrying – to the fact that there have been over-expenses. The responsibility for these conditions lies with those building up the fields, but either building up the facilities alone or building them up with state resources, is the State which has to bear a large part of the costs of overruns. The investment committee pointed out many reasons for the cost increases, and they are not exactly the same for all fields. But a clear conclusion is that developers need to spend more time in the early stages of each project to get a better basis for their decisions. If the builders spend more time before decisions are taken, it will also make plans for development and operation, PUD, and thus the management of the projects by the authorities better considered. If the cost increases for some fields have been very serious, we should not be so that the most important factor for the authorities is to avoid any change in the cost picture. The most important thing is that the fields are being developed economically, and that we create a climate that allows us to also try out new technologies and new solutions. The Ministry was given the development plans for the Åsgardk Chain projects on 15 December 1995 and these were approved by Stortinget in the summer of 1996. The development costs of the projects in the Åsgard chain were estimated in the development plans at approx. $48 billion. In the last cost estimate received by the Ministry of the Interior of Statoil in the autumn, as explained in St.prp. paragraph 1 for 1999-2000, the cost is estimated at NOK 67.1 billion. With regard to the status of the projects per year today, the oil production ship Åsgard A has been in operation since 19 May of this year, and gas exports through Europipe 2 started on 1 October of this year. The planned completion of the other projects is 1 October next year. According to Statoil, drilling in the field is now progressing well. The last forecast of the works is within the previously reported time and cost framework and Åsgard B will be completed with the start of gas deliveries within the cost framework specified in St. perp. No 18 for 1999-2000. It is clear that the projects in the Åsgard chain have had a cost development that the ministry is seriously looking at. Unfortunately, this is not unique. Substantial cost overruns have also occurred in several expansion projects in recent years. For example, the Balder and Visund projects have experienced more percentage cost exceedances than the Åsgard projects. And as I said, a major cause of recent cost gaps has been too poor quality in planning. In general, all extensions are initiated by the rightholders once the development plans have been examined by the authorities. The operator of the group of rightholders maintains the development itself, while the rightholders otherwise follow up the work through different committees. The Ministry will normally be informed of the projects through regular cost development and progress estimates. It will be our main source of information on the development of development projects in the oil and gas sector in general. For the Åsgard Chain projects, the Ministry has also implemented some additional follow-up measures. First, by the end of 1997, in the light of the operator’s reports on significant increases in costs at Kårstø, the Ministry will meet representatives from Statoil’s management when cost updates are available and reviewed. In addition, the management of Statoil shall inform the Ministry if new information is available other than the regular cost updates. The Ministry has also, in addition to this, instructed the Oil Directorate to follow up the Åsgard project in particular. The Directorate has therefore carried out several reviews of the project and, on the basis of this, has produced three reports which have been forwarded to the Ministry during the year. In addition to the specific follow-up to the Åsgard project and the ordinary follow-up, the Ministry and the Directorate of Oil will also have the opportunity to meet as observers in the licensing committees in all development projects on the base. The Licensing Committee is the place where the partners meet to discuss project development, and for a number of years it has been an established practice for the department to meet, but then as an observer without the right to vote and to speak. I would like to make it clear that the department's participation as an observer at these meetings has never been seen as a central source of information for investment grants. The cost developments in Åsgard, as mentioned above, have had a course that is worthy of serious consideration. It cannot be attributed to a few individual events and there have been cost increases in most sub-projects. I share that view that it will be useful with a full review of the entire project. The basis for the project was laid before the company's PUD was submitted to the Ministry, and when the project is reviewed, it would be reasonable to review both the decision-making basis and the different phases of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1253	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1256	The Ministry's participation as an observer at the meetings of the Steering Committee is not and has never been a central source of information for quality assurance investment grants, says the Council of State in a letter to the Committee, and she has just explained that here in the Stortinget. In fact, it is stated by the Council of State that the purpose of the Ministry's participation in the meetings of the Steering Committee is to train case handlers in the Ministry. But while the ministry assessed possible attendance from the meeting agenda and chose to attend 7 out of 13 meetings, the costs of this project were running smoothly. It is not for the Storting to interfere in what information channels and systems the Department has. It's the department's responsibility. But it is also the department's responsibility to obtain the information that is necessary for the Council of State to do its job towards Stortinget. And my question to the Council of State is, does the Council of State feel that the follow-up to the Åsgard project has been tight enough?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1263	Let me say it this way: in the case of the Åsgard project, which was so new and unbridled in the Norwegian context when it was adopted in 1995, I think it might be possible in the light of the postwar era to admit that a whole way might have had a closer follow-up. But then I also want to add, like the representative Stoltenberg, that then one comes up with an even more important question: what is a close follow-up to this type of project, which is a project with commercial developers? As I said, the Ministry does not participate in licensing committees specifically related to Statoil’s projects or in particular to Åsgard, but we have an opportunity to meet as observers in relation to all types of development projects on the base. It is a practice established over a number of years and used by the Ministry as an opportunity for the Ministry’s employees to gain better knowledge of the projects to be dealt with or otherwise undertaken later. I see that it can be called into question, but I believe that that practice has been established many years ago and has been used that way. As a result, there has also been a variable encounter with Åsgard. I can see that is unfortunate, and that is why, after what happened in the spring of 1999, the department has also found reason to turn all the stones and review the procedures we have for following up Åsgard. It is then that the department believes that one has to decide: either you meet or you don't meet in these committees. We made a decision that it was most correct that the department met in the future. But these committees are not going to be the main source of the ministry's information, because it is the system established specifically between the ministry and Statoil.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1270	Let me first say that I think it is interesting recognition that comes in the debate on the part of the Council of State. We have been given the impression, through the letters we have received and also through the press debate, that the Council of State believes that quality control and follow-up have been good enough by the department, while the Council of State in this debate says that there may be reason to look into the Åsgard case. In the last line it was also said that in the light of the after-noon time, questions can be asked about whether the follow-up has been good enough. It is an important recognition that I feel has come to this debate. My question will then be whether it means that the Council of State will initiate new follow-up procedures, for it is now recognised that there may be reason to look at the Åsgard case. It has been said that the follow-up may not have been good enough. And then my question is, what will you do now to make sure that the follow-up and quality control will be better for the future? That is why the majority of the Committee places the search light on this matter. It's not just because you want to hunt for scapegoats, but it's because you want to avoid this happening again. There are huge sums we are talking about, and it is the taxpayers who pay the bill at last.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1277	Let me say that the ministry is of the opinion that we have established a follow-up that was close enough, but as the representative of Stoltenberg said in his statement, it is clear that what is a close follow-up to that type of project can be discussed. When you look at the whole process of Åsgard, from the beginning of 1995 to the present day, you can see that it has been a very inconvenient process and a large and difficult project. I want us to go into the studies that will be done around that project, with an open mind – also from my side. Some of the things we might want to problem, which I think is important, is how the authorities, after the PUD has been approved, have the opportunity to help avoid overshooting the type of projects run by commercial developers, without adding even more delays or increased costs to the developers. The division between business and management is also an important issue here. We have few handles to hold after the PUD has been treated. We have an opportunity under the Petroleum Act § 4-2 to ask for a new treatment of PUD, but it is clear that such an operation has never been used by former oil ministers, and it would have created strong reactions in the industry because it could lead to costs, delays and increased difficulties in realising the projects. I think the distinction between business and management is part of the issues that governments should be concerned with. The same applies to the relationship to how final a PUD treatment is actually for the benefit of the Stortinges and the Government. I think we should have the opportunity to do so, among other things. through the follow-up to the case to which it is now added.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1288	I thought as far as it was clarifying both what the council said here, and what Stoltenberg said in his post, simply that this case has a story. This case is not about the central government's policy in this area, so it's about a policy that goes over many years. I am aware that the Center Party, as they did not put in place, supports the policy that SV had in this area when it broke up, among other things. Tempo problems and environmental problems. Then I have a challenge to the Council of State in relation to possible loss accounts in the future, which Sanner was also involved in. I see from the proposition that the Council of State wants to give a figure to the Storting once a year as a measure to increase the impact of the Storing. But I'd like an assessment when it comes to Statoil and ownership. This, of course, can also come back to that debate, but I think that the Council of State, with the exception of the removal of the Board of Directors, has been passive in relation to each one's desire for Statoil to go, and I fear that we are going to see bills that are quite large in relation to the foreign investment we have been involved in. So the challenge is, how will one more strongly participate in governance where one is actually a general meeting, and how does the distribution that one wants to have once a year in the future become?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1299	First of all, let me say that I do not want to impose other conditions on Statoil in terms of expansions than other actors on the base experience. Also, the state will have to separate its role as authority and owner from Statoil, in that we as authority have to deal with Statoil in the same way as with other companies. As the owner, we have to give Statoil the opportunities that other companies have. I have to clarify it, as I have done to the representative of Langeland a number of times earlier in other matters concerning Statoil. So I'm concerned about the problem: what action can we take to enable the authorities to follow up on these types of projects better? I see that it is difficult to reverse or change decisions when the PUD is adopted, when the contracts have been concluded, and when one gets a cost problem related to it. That's why I think the Investment Committee is quite right that you need to spend more time and go more thoroughly through the decision-making base before government and big business deals with the PUD. It will provide a better basis for decision making, because after PUD treatment it becomes more difficult. For my part, I have assessed the paragraph of the Petroleum Act that is calling the PUD for a new treatment, but I also see the difficulties associated with it. Besides that it will create resistance in the industry, I think it can also create resistance here in the hall among some of the parties. I do not necessarily share the view of the Right and Advance Party on taxes or state ownership, because the exceedances have also been linked to completely private fields, such as. The Balder field, which has no state expandr attached to it. But I share the view of the Right and the Advance Party on one point, and we will come back to that in the oil message. This concerns the proportion in a field with which an operator is in possession and that the incentive to do things better can be stronger if one also has a greater share than is the case today for the operators.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1310	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the word on this matter. [[See page 1554]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1326	The Council of State, Marit Arnstad, has asked for an explanation of this matter before the debate starts. That is why the Council of State will now have the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1329	On the basis of a letter I have sent today to Stortinget, I ask to be allowed to inform Stortinget about the following related to the handling of this case: The Government has proposed to Stortinget that the allocation be made under the heading. 5608 item 81 Interest, Government SF increased by 125 million. NOK 218 to SEK 343 million. kr. It's a change that is entirely linked to interest on the liable loan that Statkraft has. In the proposal, the Government stressed that the estimate is uncertain because it has been linked to the 1999 performance of Statkraft. State power announced on 15 December 1999, i.e. yesterday, that it did not pay interest on the subordinated loan at maturity on the same day. It has its background in the fact that the government of Statkraft is now making a profit forecast of 650 million. 1999 against a previous forecast of approximately 850 million. kr. The downgrading of the profit forecast is mainly related to a notified legislative change related to the accounting treatment of investments in subsidiaries. The provision is proposed to be amended with effect for 1999 and it is clear in the last few weeks that the use of the equity method or general valuation rules for the current year will be voluntary. The statutory auditor has therefore assessed the effects on Statkraft, and the Statkraft Board has decided on 14 December to downgrade the forecast for the annual accounts in line with the auditor’s assessment. In the light of the above decision of the Governing Board, Government will not be in a position to pay interest on the subordinated loan in 1999. It also relates to the terms of the loan. Therefore, there is no basis for increasing the interest rate estimate under cap. 5608 with 125 million. kr, as proposed in Innst. S. No Sixty-six. Appropriations of 218 million. However, DKK for 1999 may be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1342	I'll be very short. First of all, a brief comment on the new information provided by the Council of State – they are new compared to the committee when we gave the vote. And it seems quite obvious that if the surplus in State power is now different, or at least set up differently, than what was originally taken into account, and it affects the interest payment, it is only for the Storting to accept it and change the budgeting of interest for 1999 in line with the statement the Government gave to the Storing a moment ago. As far as the case is concerned, there are adjustments to the 1999 budget, and there is some disagreement and debate about it. The decisive point has been the question of converting State-owned loans into equity. It was also managed in the context of the budgetary position itself. There is a majority who convert the entire loan, and that is crucial for the majority of the committee. It has also been noted that there have beenchanges in the allocation of funding during 1999. But it is also a matter that the Committee has discussed in the context of the budgetary procedure, so I have no comments on the position that is now in place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1355	I have drawn myself first and foremost to present the proposal that the Progress Party and the Right have in the vote, but I would also like to give a brief explanation. In the motion for a resolution, the Government proposes, and it endorses a majority in the Grand Duchy, to increase the financial autonomy of the State. The Progress Party and the Right would like to stress that the company also needs increased commercial freedom of action, and we would like to stress that it is possible to give Statkraft greater commercial and financial freedom of action in other ways than to increase the company's loan and guarantee framework. For this reason, we have put forward a proposal asking the Government to investigate how Statkraft can increase financial and commercial freedom of action, so that the company is better equipped to face increasing competition in the Nordic and Northern European markets. I have to say, I am somewhat surprised that this proposal does not reach a majority. There have been clear signals from several parties in the debate in recent months, including – and perhaps the most perceptive – the Central Party, that it is believed that when State power is increasingly competing in markets other than Norwegian, there may be a need to sub-privatise the company. Now we are not taking up the sub-privatisation debate in this proposal – it does not say a word about sub-privatisation. We have cautiously suggested that different models of how State power can expand its commercial and financial freedom of action should be explored. I must say that I am surprised that the proposal does not have a majority. But we'll take note of that in this round, and then we'll get back to this discussion when the Storting is going to discuss the energy message. With this, I address the proposal by the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1366	Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1369	I'll take up the suggestion from SV. SV supports the proposal to give Statkraft greater financial freedom of action. But we think it is important that the Storting establish a delimitation of this free trade, that one should not be able to invest in nuclear power stations or in companies that will increase greenhouse gas emissions. In the SV's view, it is entirely in line with the Government's policy in this area, not least with what is stated in the Adult Declaration, where a recent intention is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In other words, the owner is in a position to defend investment in nuclear power, to defend investment in coal power, and thus to counter its own climate policy and policies in this area. It seemed to me more like double standards than offensive environmental and energy policies. I don't understand why the center parts don't join this constraint that SV here suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1376	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1379	I should have put forward a proposal when I spoke at the beginning of the debate, because the new information on the surplus of Statkraft implies that the Committee's position should be changed under Roman I. There's a cap. 5608 item 81 Interest, Statkraft SF listed at 125 million. kr. If I understand the council right, it's going to say zero, the post is going to cancel, and I'm suggesting a change according to that, because at least it can't stand as it says now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1384	Jens Stoltenberg has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to, that the item be set to zero. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1555]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1401	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1557]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1415	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e1423	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e2126	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 – 3, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 4, from Inger Stolt-Nielsen on behalf of Right Proposal No. 4, from the Right, taken up to the vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present to the Stortinget its own case concerning the outsourcing of the tasks of State Building as regards the planning, organisation and project management of state building projects, and the organisation of State Building as a share company.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e2150	Proposals Nos. 1, 2, and 3 from the Progress Party, are taken up for voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to organise State Buildings according to the following principles in addition to State Building AS: A company, the State Purpose Building AS, is set up to manage the building stock that is not included under the State Rental Building AS. A company is established, State Building Project AS, where areas of activity such as management, operation, maintenance, advice, plan and investigation are included.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to note Staten’s rental building AS on Oslo Stock Exchange and then to sell the shares gradually, and to sell Statenbygg project AS to a maximum bidder.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to find one or more external partners that can be included in the State Objective Building AS.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e2203	During the debate, Mr Bredvold has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The President noted that the presentation of the proposal on page 14 of the vote was incomplete. The proposal in its form is to be found on page 12, second column, of the option. The proposal of the Progress Party is addressed to voting: ‘The Government is asking the Government to authorise Norkring to launch a commercial testing scheme of a ground-based network in relation to digital broadcasts.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e2231	During the debate, Mr Bredvold has tabled two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. The suggestions are formulated on page 2 of the setting. The one proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to renegotiate the rules on self-advertising for broadcasters, cf. Article 19A of the Directive.’;» The second proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to renegotiate the Directive’s rules on the maximum duration of advertising broadcasts per year. Date, cf. Article 18 of the Directive. ‘... Alternatively, votes are taken between the chairperson and the proposals of the Progress Party. The Committee had ceased: The size consents to the approval of Decision No 4 of the EEA Joint Committee. 82/99 of 25 June 1999 amending Protocol 37 to the EEA Agreement and Annex X to the EEA Agreement on audiovisual services St. pp. [[1998 - 1999]] No 96
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e2274	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and in particular Amendment No 1 by Mr Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 2, from Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposals from the 5608 is lost. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that State power cannot use its financial autonomy to invest in nuclear power stations or in undertakings that increase greenhouse gas emissions.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e2298	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate how Statkraft can increase financial and commercial autonomy so that the company is better equipped to face increasing competition in the Nordic and North European markets.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e2312	The proposal for a decision shall then be put to the vote. Before we do so, the President will refer to the statement made by the Minister for Oil and Energy at the beginning of the debate on this matter. As a result of the circumstances set out by the Council of State, the proposed revenue budget falls short of what has been proposed under the heading. 5608. In line with this, the Chairman of the Committee has proposed that action be taken. 5608 is lost.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e2442	The President has understood that the Advance Party and the Right want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e2638	Here, too, the President has understood that the Progress Party and the Right intend to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e2827	In line with the circumstances set out by the Council of State at the beginning of the debate, the Chairman of the Committee has proposed that action be taken. 5608 is lost. – The proposal has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16.ana.ud1317e3218	There is no record.
