ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e26	We start with a line chord shift after Thore Aksel Nistad's posts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e29	We are amazed that the main speaker of the Progress Party did not mention the Post in one word. The strongest lines of postal policy go between the Progress Party and the Right and the others. In its comments, the Progress Party proposes to remove the post-monopoly. They suggest halving the government's purchases of unprofitable services. At the same time, the Progress Party has very strong demands on the quality that the Post will deliver. Is there the constant fear of the use of state money and the belief that the private market will also be settled in the Post, which is behind the proposals? Or does the Progress Party actually believe that we are getting a better and more profitable postal service across the country without the government taking responsibility for unprofitable services?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e34	I said clearly that I would take my way, and that others would take care of other parts of the Progress Party program – but that's okay. We want to cancel the post-monopoly, and we've also gone in to reduce subsidies, or buy services, as others want to call it. We're saying subsidies. Instead of maintaining all the post offices, we can imagine that several of these services are added to the local store, or you can add them to the gas station. In many places on the outskirts, there is a great danger that the Post will disappear, the local store will disappear and the gas station will disappear. We do not want everything to disappear, so we believe that much of this can be collected in one place, so that it can strengthen the local store or strengthen the gas station. In this way, you would not only have a 2- to 5-hour opening time; you would have said almost 24 hours – I can't say that, but at least a considerably longer opening time for postal services than what you have today in the districts. That's why we've gone in to simplify this. I guess we're a little bit special about government services, I'm going to admit that. As long as it says "state" in front, I get a little hurt in my stomach, I'll go as far as admitting it. But I believe in every respect that it is best for the private to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e43	It is true that the Progress Party has considerable resources in the road sector in its draft budget. So maybe you could ask them how realistic it is, with the cuts that they've done around, and how much real money there is. But now leave it. There is no doubt that they are interested in strengthening the road sector. The party of progress has been in this room a party that has repeatedly pointed out that the most important thing is to spend the money on the projects that have the highest cost-benefit ratio. It's been implemented, it's been an argument. And precisely in view of that, there is a dramatic change that has taken place in the Progress Party during this year, which is also one of the reasons for the famous decision on the location of opera in Bjørvika, which some warned against, because it would immediately trigger a road project in the billions of years – a road project that has a minus utility in which I believe, NOK 1.1 billion. It's actually one of Norway's worst road projects. It is then amazing to see that the Progress Party here is together with the Workers' Party and SV to realise this project – SV, which has actually cut the road budget! The truth is that neither the Workers' Party nor SV has money for this project. It is possible that the Progress Party has it, but it is monopolistic money. It would be very interesting to know why the Progress Party has now changed its previous position, which to those degrees has been linked to the cost-benefit principle of road projects.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e52	The progressing party has never escaped the benefit-cost factor. Nor have we done so with regard to the Bjørvika project. It is true, as the representative Oddvard Nilsen said, that if you see Bjørvika in relation to the road sector alone, the cost-benefit factor is negative. But in Bjørvika there are a large number of public properties, including: NSB properties, which are 100 pst. public. Only the increase in the value of the properties in Bjørvika corresponds to more than the expansion of the Bjørvika project. It is not included in the cost-benefit analysis. It's public properties, it's ports, it's NSB properties, it's municipal properties. I believe this suggests that the Bjørvika project can be a good project. But in addition, I also believe that the Bjørvika project will be good for anyone who runs through Oslo. The cost-benefit is also formidable. So I think the utility cost calculations are not right for that project. I don't want to welcome the Opera, but I would like to welcome the Bjørvika Tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e57	In connection with the last speech made by the representative Nistad, the question of the realization of Bjørvika could be linked to the fact that everything should be covered by land sales. For the Christian People's Party and for the Centre, it is important to strike a balance between the appropriations within the various transport areas and to try to achieve maximum efficiency, high safety and less pollution, and not least to strike a balance between private car transport and public transport. Although the representative Nistad has stressed that he has taken the road, it is true when reading the budget of the Progress Party, that it is a road up and down – and especially tribal roads in central struts. An example is E6 Oslo-Trondheim. But what about the E6 northwards, which is half Norway? Quick route should be reduced, the Post should be cut, the NSB BA and the Railway Agency should be cut radically, priority should be given to collective actions – in fact, it says that collective fields and other road sections should be limited. Then my question becomes to the representative Nistad: Can the roads solve all the traffic challenges that we face, or is it such that the Progress Party controls transport chaos?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e64	In fact, when it comes to controlling transport chaos, which was the last of the representatives of Sahl, I think the Progress Party is almost the only one that doesn't control transport chaos. I think the representative of Sahl has completely forgotten that the railway network consists of 4,000 km. That's 400 miles. The public road network is 91,000 km – that's when I brought the municipal road network. That in numbers should clearly say what we think is the best. Then the representative of Sahl comes up with whether the Bjørvika project is to be covered by land sales. No, we're asking what to do with these properties. We have not said that we should sell immediately to cover Bjørvika. We have enough money in our budget to cover the Bjørvika project and many other projects. We've also added E6 to the north. The representative of Sahl knows that, because it is also covered in our budget. I did not mention that, because I could not mention all the ways when I stood and kept my post. So it's true that we've said no to the fast way. We have done that because we believe option 1 that the fast route has on its scenario is the best, and then they get completely free ropes to choose for themselves how they want to use the fast route, what sailing patterns they have, and which ports they want to go to. We think that's the best option for the fast way, and we'd rather spend the money on the way. It's better social. In the case of the Railway Agency – now I see that the lamp lights up, so the next representative of the Advance Party will get a little into it. But we've made a priority. We believe the largest traffic is on the way. Then we have to make the choice and take money from the fast route, a little bit from the NSB, a little bit from the railway station in order to give priority to the road.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e77	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e80	The Christian People's Party is concerned with good and safe communications in all parts of the country. Transport policy has a major impact on people's daily lives and on businesses in our country. The Christian People’s Party is therefore pleased that the Stortinget now adopts a transport budget with a good rural profile, a budget that prioritizes maintenance on roads in the districts, road safety, incline trains between the big cities, better marking of fairways along the coast, better regional air services and good postal services across the country. Every year more than 300 lives are lost in traffic on Norwegian roads. More than 6,000 people are seriously injured. 600 of these once again become unfit for life. This cannot be accepted. This is why the Government has introduced a long-term but radical objective of road safety, inspired by similar work in Sweden, with a vision of zero fatalities or serious road damage. The zero vision is not unattainable. The zero vision points out a course that means priorities with consequences for our entire transport policy, priorities and choices that will both save human life and save us from great human suffering in the years to come. A national road safety plan is being developed that will address these challenges. The size has just dealt with and adopted a legal basis in the Road Traffic Act to prohibit the use of electronic equipment in cars that could interfere with the driver. This will in concrete terms mean a ban on the use of hand-held mobile phones while driving. This summer, an E18 campaign has been launched in Westfold, with reduced speed limits, increased information activities and more controls. This seems to have produced good results. Both this and the ban on disruptive cell use in the car are good examples of behavioural measures that can help reduce the number of people killed and injured on our roads. When we talk about road safety, we often focus on drivers, and partly on school students. Cyclists are, however, a group responsible for an increasing proportion of traffic accidents. They are often seen as a threat to drivers and pedestrians as well as to themselves. The construction of multiple walking and cycling roads is therefore essential. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government is proposing a significant increase in the appropriations for the construction of walking and cycling roads to next year. The Minister for Transport has also drawn the Committee's attention to the fact that many large investment projects will be completed on the national roads in 2000, which will allow for greater scope for smaller investment projects, such as: walking and cycling roads, in 2001. We need to strengthen knowledge of the traffic rules that apply in the encounter between drivers and cyclists. In this work, we believe, like the Department, that the Cyclalist National Association can play an important role. The Christian People's Party therefore supports, together with a majority in the Committee, the proposal to grant NOK 300000 to the Cyclalist National Association. The association shall contribute to strengthening society’s environmental, road safety and transport competences, focusing on the bicycle as a means of transport. The budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party has granted 100 million. SEK extra for investments in our roads, divided by 25 million. DKK to the county roads and 75 million. kr to the national roads. These 75 million. kr is allocated to selected projects which are currently stopped or which have a rational drive due to low appropriations. This is how we ensure a reasonable and profitable use of these funds. Twenty-five million. extra for county road purposes be disposed of for the strengthening programme to correct important county road routes. In the opinion of the majority of the Committee, Nordland, Hedmark, Oppland and Süd-Trøndelag are the most kilometres of county roads characterised by long distances and poor standards. In recent years, large parts of the drugs have been tied up in adopted major projects, which must be implemented once they have been started. This has been done at the expense of smaller investment projects and maintenance. It is a matter the Ministry of Transport on several occasions has made Stortinget aware. Many major projects will now be completed during this period, i.e. during 2001. It gives us more blank papers in front of the work of the National Transport Plan 2002-2011 and opportunities for more rational and comprehensive use of the roads for the whole country. It is therefore strange that a large majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party, assume that the Ministry will follow up the Bjørvika project linked to a previously submitted financing arrangement. It is worth noting that the majority will not discuss such a large project as Bjørvika in an overall context, but assumes that it will be implemented without knowing the framework in future budgets and without waiting for Oslo or Akershus states to assess and prioritize the project in the hearing that has not yet been completed. The Bjørvika Tunnel is a large and expensive low-cost project, which will also bind state resources in Oslo, at the expense of the rest of the country, and I am particularly excited if the Socialist Left is really willing to stand for this. I will also allow myself to quote from the given setting, page 17, where the Workers' Party says the following: «Weighing investments must go a long way to upgrading and maintaining already existing ones.» And on the other hand that ‘It is particularly important to complete and ensure rational progress in road projects already under way. In the interests of nutrition and housing, it is important to improve the roadside standard.’ How much resources will there be left to improve the county road standard when projects like the Bjørvika are to be trodden through? I would also like to mention here a major issue on which the whole committee is concerned, and which – at least for me – seems to be a lot more important than Bjørvika, namely Oslopakket 2. An overall plan for collective development in Oslo and Akershus also has effects for areas far beyond these two counties. The Christian People's Party assumes that its own proposition on Oslopackak 2 is presented at the latest at the same time as the national transport plan and so that the financial framework is clarified in the national transport plan. The Christian People's Party is concerned with the cost management of the investments that are being made, not least in the light of all the very large cost excesses that we have seen in recent years. I would particularly like to refer to the 2000 Yellow Book, where the government's work to improve the management of state investment funds is mentioned. For the transport sector, a significant element has been put in place, namely that the uncertainty margin should not be greater than the plus-minus10 pst. for the priority projects. Otherwise, it's nice to have projects that finally get their solution. A good example this year is the Stokkajuvet in Hordaland. The government will return to Stortinget with a plan for development during the spring, with a view to this being completed at the same time as the Triangle Connection. Another good example is the road to the Todalen in More and Romesdal, which has been a recurring theme. Now the work goes on there as well. The government’s priority of facilitating the start of tilting trains is important in order to continue the good development of rail transport. For the year 2000, it's set at 500 million. kr for this purpose. This initiative makes it possible to insert NSB's new tilt train, Signature, on Bergensbanen and Dovrebanen as well as on the route further from Kristiansand to Stavanger in the next year. In addition to reducing travel time between major cities, the frequency of these routes is increasing. The result is a significant improvement in both capacity and the provision of freight and passenger traffic between the largest cities in South Norway. This will also have a significant impact on the economy and future operations of NSA BA. With regard to the debate on the organisation and form of association of the Aviation Agency, the Christian People's Party, together with the Centre Party and the Left, sees some important elements that should be considered: adaptability and rapid migration in the event of changes in demand for business-driven governance, which is very important The Christian People’s Party asks the Government to assess whether the Swedish Aviation Agency can meet these requirements in the current form of organisation or whether other appropriate forms of organisation should be considered. And then finally, I'd like to take to heart an area where there are rich traditions, which are trajectory on the track along the coast. One who knew the rent and the people of the coast well was Petter Dass. He expresses himself this way about the journey to Lofoten in the Northlands Trumpet: «Put the snail from the land, turn the rod west, see the bones above the sea, it pays to stand sail while the wind will add.A mile or four we watered in the sea, then I saw the hull, the fishy island, which rose up right in front of our eye.There we anchored, then we got ashore, where the heels were built by the shore and huts where the fishermen live.» Petter Dass had a burning heart for the coastal population and the sea as traffickers, and he is still often drawn out as an example and inspirational source today. It is still the case that the main gravity of population and business respectively live and are located near the coast, and maritime transport is very important in this context. Maritime transport has a dominant role in foreign and freight transport and is responsible for 75 pst. of all exports from Norway. Domestic maritime transport including oil and gas accounts for 53 pst. of the total domestic transport work. The Christian People's Party is therefore very concerned with ensuring safety and accessibility in Norwegian waters and ports. Well-functioning ports and good maritime transport infrastructure are essential for the efficiency of the transport system. In the context of the examination of the national transport plan, the Christian People's Party will be particularly concerned with strengthening maritime transport and creating a good interface between maritime transport and other modes of transport. It is gratifying that the centre parties and the Labour Party in the agreement have negotiated 40 million. kr in addition to the submitted budget for ports, lighthouses and marques. Developments in the direction of major vessels, both in the case of fishing vessels and in the case of passenger and freight vessels, have led to a gradual lack of depth and breadth. Coastal disposal plans suggest that in 2000 a total of 13 plants will be in operation, and it is gratifying to record that, among other things: has been submitted for completion of the Rice Islands in the Nordic region. The accident with the speedboat Sleipner has reminded us again of the importance of securing the rent along the coast. The Christian People's Party has noticed that the review of the quality of the fireworks service requested by the Stortinget in the previous budgetary position has been carried out. The conclusion is that the maintenance situation of the floating marks seems good, while there is still a high maintenance need for the fixed installations. In addition, we know that there is a need to set up new brands and radar reflectors. Then the equation could add another 15 million. kr to the fire and tag service, be a signal that the Storting will follow up with appropriations, in order to achieve the principal objectives of the fire service: ‘There shall be no accident or accident that can be traced back to failed service or to defective navigational alerts.’;» It is not often an experienced person to get answers before a prayer, especially in the political arena. But the happier it is now when it has happened to the fast route. At the end of 2001, the existing agreement with the fast-track operators expires. The fast route has entered the hearts of the coastal population and today has a unique position in both tourist, passenger and freight transport. The conversion carried out for the high-speed train must be considered to be very successful and the process must now be continued by replacing the two old vessels. And here we are at the answer that came before someone expected it. It is very gratifying that the central government here has demonstrated its capacity for action and obtained a new agreement ashore on the purchase of transport services from the high-speed bus companies for a period of a new five years from 2002. Today’s sailing patterns shall be maintained and new high-speed craft shall be contracted. The population of the coast may rest and the action committees may rest. Five years is not a long time perspective. The Christian People's Party is therefore prepared to look at the 'fast route response' as being very happy, and then to work towards a more long-term development of the fast route in connection with the national transport plan. Finally, let Petter Dass have the last word. He expressed himself this way, still in the Nordic Trumpet: ‘Well! Then let the ship slip out of its harbour, and we will lift the sail in the name of the Saviour and let it run on the waves.And before tonight we will see the stars, and I hope the rocks lie in smiles.In that I believe we can safely little."
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e206	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e210	There is an almost touching consensus between the government parties and the Workers' Party in this budget, and in fact it was very touching also when Sahl quoted Petter Dass. But it really took a lot of time, so now I'm going to let Sahl go into what I know he's burning for. It's about district policy – I understood it this way on a line earlier. So the representative Sahl sits as a member of the Committee on Transport, and the Minister for Transport comes from the same party as he does. The parties in the centre like to characterize themselves as the mouthpiece of districts and local democracy, but when it comes to concrete actions, districts are not so important anyway. For what does the representative of the Christian People's Party really think that the invitation to tender at 26 airports has taken place without the opportunity of the relevant county councils being heard, and that some areas of the route have been offered worse, with reduced standards, except for aeroplanes, without pressurised cabins, etc.? What has the representative done in this matter to process the Council of State, so that there could be a better offer for people in the districts? Has the representative Sahl tried to influence his own council to give people an even better offer?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e215	I can say that I agree with the representative Eirin Fallet that there is reason to rejoice at the agreement that has now been established between the centre and the Workers' Party. I also understand that both the Centre and the Workers' Party have an intention to facilitate the development of transport in the districts as well, and that we agree that it is important to focus on collective solutions in central areas, and to facilitate road construction in District Norway. Then it is quite right that the representative Eirin Fallet also points out that air traffic is very important for District Norway. And I am quite sure that the representative Eirin Faldet is also aware that the offer that was subsequently made was not found either in the department offices or on the table of the Minister for Transport. The entire structure was in close contact with the individual counties. I also assume that the representative, Eirin Faldet, is aware that there is a significantly greater amount of funding today than ever at regional airports. With regard to the fact that the counties were not allowed to join the last bit, I assume that the representative Eirin Faldet understands that not everyone can be allowed to look in the cards when you are going to submit a tender document where several tenderers are to submit. It's just an impossibility. Essentially, the signals we get from District Norway are that they are satisfied with the offer they receive today in regional aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e224	The representative Jan Sahl took up the zero vision, and that the mobile phone ban was the way to go. He might not be able to imagine that there are other things than cell phone that also represent a danger on the road, among other things. there may be quarrelling kids in the car or other things that interfere. It is the meeting accidents that are really the problem. Can't the representative Sahl imagine that separating four-field roads physically with middle parts will improve the safety of our roads? Because when we read almost daily about meeting accidents on the roads with a fatal outcome, I think separating traffic is the best thing. The budget of the Christian People's Party and the cooperating parties does not bear the mark of improving road safety. To that, too little funds have been put in. And there will also be no zero vision of a mobile phone ban. Sahl was concerned with improving the county road standard, and mentioned in that connection Bjørvika and the road conversion there. But if you're concerned with improving the county road standard, you can only go to the budget, you can see what the budget of the cooperating parties is going to increase that item. It's $25 million. kr, while the Advance Party had 150 million. kr to improve the county road standard.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e233	I note that the Progress Party and the Centre share a common desire to increase road safety. I also understand that there may be other things than the mobile phone that may seem disturbing when one is out driving a car. I don't have that much experience with quarrelling wives, but with kids who can make a little life in the backseat, I have so much experience with and can understand. Now it's not that easy to do something about it in the law, so we might have to look at other solutions first. I can agree, to the extent that I agree with the representative Stensaker on this with the middle parts on the four-field road. Making that happen is a question of economics. But that is an important measure in road safety work, we can agree on. We can also agree that meeting accidents are a major problem and that, among other things, road markings and sound-producing mid-strips are also shown to work well. Otherwise, the government is working on a road safety plan to be included in the national transport plan, where we look at the overall picture in relation to what can increase road safety. Then, too, such things as speed limit and point improvement are effective means of improving road safety. I am pleased that the Progress Party is also concerned about this. This means that, together, we can find ways to increase road safety in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e242	The representative Sahl spoke warmly about the coast, security and fairways, that this was a priority and an area for which the Christian People's Party has great care. They state in their comments that they are ‘occupied with ensuring safety and accessibility in Norwegian waters and ports’, but in the name of truth this must be said to have been poorly followed up in practice. An overall committee notes that there is a clear lag in actual appropriations compared to what was adopted in spring 1997. In fact, the fixed installations are very poor, and this threatens the safety of those who travel on the sea. Now the government is pressured from all sides to increase the appropriations for this important purpose, and the Right is very happy that the Workers' Party has helped to increase this somewhat. But what surprises us is that you choose to pick up money to secure the fairways from the Rescue Company. What kind of priorities are these? Cooperation with the Workers' Party has the strangest consequences. Together with the Workers' Party, a boat register has been established that has so far cost 55 million. NOK 13,5 million. kr a year to run, and then you will get money from the Rescue Company to secure the fairways. Is it more important to watch out for boats than to watch out for people who travel on the sea? That's my question. Why don't you get the money from there? Can you imagine putting down that boat register and re-prioritising that money to safety at sea? I'm going to promise that it's going to get Right's support.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e249	I am pleased that there is a cross-political consensus in the Committee on Transport on working to increase safety along the coast. I am also pleased that the Minister of Justice has seized on this matter and wants to see how to achieve stronger cooperation between the various bodies that can help to strengthen safety along the coast, and that can also be involved in a rapid response when the accident has occurred. The Committee has stressed several times that the funds allocated to brands and beacons want to be used primarily for maintenance. With regard to the last funds now available in the budget, we also want to use some of them to continue the observation in waters where there are no marks, in order to avoid coastal accidents. Here I think we must be able to say that there is a cross-political consensus that the roofs that it is now necessary to take, among other things. in order to bring the map up-to-date and to provide a closer look at the location of the dangerous points along the coast and to establish the marking, there is a strong desire in a joint committee to seize and provide funds. I also have a strong understanding that the Minister for Fisheries is concerned about the same problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e256	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e259	Communication is, as many before me today have been, a very important factor in the development of business. Good communications are also at the bottom of successful district development and building across the country. That is why we are debating a very important budget area. The 2000 budget for trade is a tight budget. We can read that out of the government's budget proposal, which has also pointed to the many challenges and tasks that remain unresolved in the transport sector. Also in the 2000 budget, the transport sector has taken a large part of the cost of creating a government budget that should not have a negative impact on interest rates, employment, etc. In the road sector, there are major commitments due to earlier projects. This has been the situation for the last few years and will continue for a few years. This means that the main effort in the construction industry will be to complete the start-up phase. I am pleased that the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party resulted in a slightly greater commitment to society. The majority of investment funds for national roads have been allocated to installations that are being run poorly rationally or have stopped due to a lack of permissions. In my opinion, this is the most reasonable way to use these extra funds. The objective must be to operate the facilities rationally and efficiently. Urational operations lead to the exploitation of the projects, and it is only to establish that in 2000 there will be more projects that are still being driven in a more rational way. The budget for 2000 is the third budget for this four-year period. The overviews of the distribution of rickshaws between different counties and also the distribution of funds between different tribal routes clearly show that there will be a disaggregation relative to the percentage distribution that was the intention of the Roadmap period. A number of the Committee pointed out the importance of following up the intentions of Norwegian road and road traffic plans, and therefore called for a smoothing of the funding uplift as far as this was possible without leading to an increase in the level of rational plant operation. The budget proposal states: ‘In recent years it has not been possible to maintain the capital of the road with the maintenance appropriations made available.’ This is a description of reality. Poor maintenance creates difficulties for business, leads to great wear and tear on running clothes and often poses a direct risk to life and health. I thought it was bad that this should be the situation. In the rail sector, 1998 figures show an increase in passenger traffic by rail, while in the freight sector there was a decrease. For the railway, analyses show that there is a need for substantial commitment to maintenance in order to maintain a satisfactory transport standard on existing networks. I share the Government's view that operations and maintenance must be given priority in 2000. This is one of the things. an important commitment to the full impact of the roll-out-related investment measures on the Sørlands-, Bergens- and Dovrebanen. On the railway side, it is a pleasure to note that the tilting train bet has received a good reception, and the same can also be said about the traffic speech for the Gardermoban. In some budget chapters of the Ministry of Fisheries there were also additions to the budget agreement with the Labour Party. The addition opens up for increased effort on the premises ports and the lighthouse and tag service. A number of local, municipal and county plans have been developed on the port side. Many of the port development plans are very important for fisheries and industrial development. The extra funds are therefore very good use. Electronic maps, cargo services, lighthouses and beacons are an important means of ensuring safe conditions for coastal maritime traffic. Even if the budget agreement allows for increased effort, the trust for more means on both the maintenance page and the extension page for fire and brand is still large. These are areas that should be of high priority. It's like every time we experience an accident at sea, we're reminded of the value of having a well-marked lease. In the budget setting last year, the Committee asked the Ministry to arrange for a review of the quality of the service. I have noticed that this review has been carried out, and I expect this to be presented to the Stortinget in its own form.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e292	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e295	There was one area that the representative Ringstad was not concerned with, and it was about racial protection. In August this year, the Government presented a separate action plan on racial protection. There, the Council of State wrote that initially, strict frameworks have been established in the years to come. He further writes that if we are to invest specifically in one area, it will have to be at the expense of other important road policy considerations. The conclusion that this can be subtracted is that there will be no extra effort on the road in the years to come. Then it's added that 2 billion kroner are to be invested in racial protection. If you sum up the projects that have been submitted, it turns out that there is not 2 billion kroner in addition to what is in the framework of the Roadmap. In addition, a separate heading for racial protection has now been established. The majority of concerns are that this leads to states failing to give priority to racial protection in the context of remedial projects pending their centralisation. In other words, you can create false expectations and actually rational plant operations. When the centre parties drive this forward with racial protection as an important tool, I sit back with the question: Is not the representative Ringstad afraid that what they think is an important tool, just becomes the enemy of the good?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e304	The representative Røtweg said that there was one area that I had not been in, i.e. racial protection. That's right. I didn't get time to come in on everything in a five-minute post. I was also not in the post, telecommunications, aviation, just to name a few other areas. I would like to have a longer speaking time, both to go into the individual topics more thoroughly and to bring everything with me. The representative Red Road states that it is not really the big sum that is the amount of racial protection that one at first sight can get the impression. It is true that in the concrete sums in the item for racial protection, there is an increase, but it is not as big as I think both the representative Ola Røtweg and I myself would like to. But it's a certain increment. It is also stated in the established racial protection plan that, in addition to the funds in the special item for racial protection, it must be used by the ordinary means. If we travel around and look at the racial protection project, we see that there's a lot of means of racial protection there, but there's also a lot of other things that come into the same projects, so it's natural that there's a balance between what we have from the means of racial protection, and that one has to take off the ordinary resources. The idea behind what has been presented is that there should be an interaction between what goes into concrete racial protection and what is needed to carry out a project, and as one must take off the ordinary resources.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e312	We are constantly hearing about districts and good roads, and the general comments to the Centre Party in this setting say once again that there will be good and safe roads in the districts. I'm sure that even though I'm going to sit on the Stortinget for 30 years, I still want to hear the same thing. In the past, the Centre Party pledged a massive increase in its efforts in terms of road investment. It was the famous road package that was worth a total of 5 billion kroner. How much has it come up with? So far, it's not a single district that's seen a single crown of the huge increase they promised. The medicine of the Progress Party for developing the country is to increase significantly road investment and maintenance. If we're going to get people to bet on the edge and they prefer to stay there, the Progress Party believes that the petrol should cost $7 a gallon. We should have more reasonable cars, and we should definitely have good roads, so that both timber, fish and milk, of which the centre party is very busy, come out to the markets at a reasonable price. Is the Centre party of the opinion that the transport policy outlined here by the Progress Party is so terribly bad for the districts, as the Centre Party now embraces the Workers' Party so violently?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e323	The representative of the Progress Party has observed quite correctly when he says that the Center Party is one of the parties on the Stortinget that are occupied by districts. And my impression is that there is a plurality on the Stortinget that is busy with district development, because in the districts, very much of the value creation is happening in the country. So if we are to take care of the value creation that is, we have to take care of the districts, but we also have to take care of the more central and big cities. There is no contradiction here. If you want value development to be kept, you can't ignore what's happening in your district. Then the Progress Party shows its willingness to increase road investment significantly. Now, for two years, the central government has cooperated on the budget, among others. The party of progress. In the alternative budgets presented by the Progress Party, there have been large sums of money – that is quite right – but when the Progress Party was to give priority to all its wishes, there were no roadways at last. So the two years of central government have cooperated with, among other things. Progress party, there has been no extra means of transportation. This is why I also said in my post that I am happy that the cooperation agreement with the Workers' Party provided extra means of transport. But we didn't achieve that the previous two years when the Progress Party was one of the partners.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e330	I notice that the representative Sahl did not answer the representative, Stolt-Nielen,’s question about strengthening the safety on the coast by cutting the loops of the Rescue Company, and I wonder if the representative, Ringstad, is calling for an answer to this. The representative, Ringstad, also said in his contribution that she was very concerned that the intentions of the Roadmap, when it was due to the distribution of funds, had to be followed up. And then I thought there was a reason to ask if it might not be interesting to follow up on the intentions when it applies to the overall frame of the Roadmap. When the Road and Road Road Road Plan was adopted just before this period began, the Centre Party, together with the Right, entered for a sharp increase. Jorunn Ringstad himself has previously stated that she is not happy with what has happened. In the nation on 15 June she calls it a “breakup” and says, among other things,\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The majority of Stortinget will invest more in transport. It is not useful when the government is not involved.’ She also says: ‘There is a great deal of unrest in the party. Not many years will pass before there will be an uprising.» Two days later, the same representative receives a reply from the parliamentary leaders of the central parties, which: ‘I promise Ringstad better times next year’ — which we are now entering — ‘if interest continues to fall and the economic outlook remains good’. The same paper says that Johan J. Jakobsen ‘emphasises that 1999 is an exceptional year’. Then there are two questions I would like an answer to: Is the representative Ringstad still firm about his criticism? It's the one. The second is whether it is possible to get a closer timing of when the road uprising that the representative of Ringstad has previously notified will come.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e356	First to the first question, about the cut off in the promises of the Rescue Company. I would like to admit that I am not happy that the promises of the Rescue Company were cut. It is one of the areas that also listened within what goes on safety at sea, and I hope that the Government on the next crossroads will consider it supported by the Rescue Company. I only want to make a few quotes directly from the proposition when it comes to road purposes. It says on page 69: ‘In recent years it has not been possible to maintain the capital of the road with the maintenance appropriations made available.’ It goes on to read on page 71: ‘However, in recent years the appropriations for road purposes have actually fallen.’It goes on to say on page 79:‘Calculations show that today’s maintenance slowed down by a total of 8 billion. kr. It has to be set at about 700 million. kr more per. years of maintenance beyond the current level in order not to increase any further.’» The budget proposal for the current year, which we discussed a year ago, said that there were no 800 million. kr in order to operate installations efficiently. I feel like the government and I are in line. The government's proposition has pointed to the challenges that lie there. They've used words like this, they've used words that it's missing, and that it hasn't been enough means to fulfill what should have been done in the road sector. I want to say in my words that it's too little money. I don't feel that the government and I are on a collision course. The government has also said that they have given priority to a number of other areas. And prioritizing is letting something go lead something else. I hope that the government will look closely at the next crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e379	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e382	Then it has happened, what I warned against from this pulpit on June 3rd this year – the mobile bit of the new merged telecommunications company, an area Telenor has been very strong on and that has been in a massive expansion in business, probably ends in Sweden. It was not a matter of concern to the majority of the population and to the Council of State when we dealt with the merger. Some crocodile tears may cry in the light of the after-clock. Whether the budget is the following: pointless. I was so little inspired that I assessed whether I could do as a priest, turn the pile and take the last year's sermon – last year's budget line, but I have tried to renew it. The environmental perspective is still just talking. The district policy that was raised in the Adult Declaration is still locked down in the department drawers. The Honorary Orders are rhetoric, and the reconciliation with the Workers' Party changes a little. There is still no railway bet, no matter how many pretty words and how much money the centre parties had when we dealt with the railway plan 2 1⁄2 years ago. At that time they described the railway's roadway as the first generation railway, built out from completely different requirements than today to trajectory, speed and carrying capacity, and criticized the Workers' Party for lack of bet. It was then. Every time this central government presents a budget, it's the same misery as under the Workers' Party. That the Workers' Party is also negotiating a cut of 30 million. kr to the railway, do not make matters better. The fact that the Workers' Party has already forgotten that last year they were with us about criticising the centre government for the lack of railway operations makes this even worse. I only have one word to say about it: Fy! In addition, the Government cheats. When they're going to put numbers on the table on how they meet the railway plan of the Jagland government – notice, the Jagland government, not their own – they'll take the addition of 600 million. kr to the bank took into the frames provided by the Jagland administration. It is a form of history that should be reported to the Value Commission. In SV's primary budget proposal, we give the railway a real boost with an increase of 700 million. kr. in investment in the road. This will be used to support the development of double tracks in Eastfold and Westfold, as well as the organisation of increased rail freight. by gauge extension of tunnels, which are particularly relevant on the Nordlandsbanen and Bergensbanen, and that we propose to remove the road charge for goods. It will strengthen the NSB competitively in relation to road transport. I cannot understand why the Government and the Workers' Party do not see the point of strengthening the competitiveness of the railway on the freight side and constantly postponing the decision on the road tax, VAT, etc. When I talk about the road tax, I have to remind Right that what was my main question to the representative Oddvard Nilsen this morning in a reply, which I did not get any answer to, was: Why is the Right now going in to increase the road tax, while they were with us two and a half years ago about removing it for combined transport? Why have they turned around? That the Progress Party cuts on the railroad with 700 million. kr to the Railway Station, do not surprise. What surprises them is that they are involved in the comments of the Committee on the continuation of work on the Eastfold and Westfold lines, they are involved in supporting new projects such as the Eidanger Tunnel, tilting train operations on the Kongsvinger Railway, etc. How do they achieve this when they are going to cut so dramatically on investment funds and on maintenance funds of the Railway Agency? It's a mystery. But the entire budget of the Progress Party is made up of riddles. For example, they are involved in criticising the level of service provided by postal services, while cutting public purchases of mail services at 300 million. kr. Yes, then the service will be better! When I say this now, it's a challenge for those who are going to have lines for me. They can use the first half of their line – since I have so hard access to lines on them – to answer the issues I have raised about their budgets, and then they can ask me in the last half. But I'm going to move from track to road. North Norway is again the loser on the road budget. I said last year this was the year of my country. But they managed to beat the record this year: 11.5 pst. by the means of roads to North Norway. It's only been ten years since North Norway got 25 pst. and it began to go down. Now the department is also trying to trick a little with the figures, and so would like to include this compensation for an increased employer's fee when they are going to make the overview. According to the municipal minister, this is a pure compensation for increased expenditure, and it is highly doubtful to include this. But sail if you do that, it becomes small numbers, a very modest addition, and it doesn't correct the statistics. The speech of the figures is unique, and they are gloomy to the northern part of the country. This is part of centralisation policy. I heard the representative from Right, Oddvard Nilsen, today talking about roads in District Norway, talking about business, etc., and then the main speaker of the Labour Party, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, comes up – and when he talks about roads, he only talks about roads in Oslo, one project after another. Then I came to think that in the financial debate we had, he almost said that we had solved so many road problems in North Norway. And then I started thinking about this with winter roads, I started thinking about this with a wagon train that is overturned along the E6 because there is no carrying capacity on that road, they come near the edge, and the road breaks down. I started thinking about all of that, and then I asked myself, "Why doesn't the Workers' Party talk about it too, not just about roads in the capital?" The other thing that surprises me is that there's still talk about a new highway to Asker. Then I would like to remind you that a double railway track has a transport capacity of over 30,000 people per hour in each direction. A four-field road does not come close to such a transport capacity, it takes a much larger area, and it is a much worse environmental investment. It should be the Workers' Party now thinking again, I think. There's one road project that I want to give a special mention, Europe Road 6 through Melhus. In the past, the Committee on Transport has asked for a change in the choice of lines to save the intervention in relation to the sheltered Gaula watercourse. Unfortunately, this review has excluded the option that passes through the Vass Mountain. Only alternatives have been considered that have made very significant contributions to the agricultural area, to industrial activities and to residential areas, and that do not, in fact, save Gaula well enough. The local government in Melhus has now asked that the Vassfjellet option be considered. My challenge goes to all the other parties and to the minister: let's not have to choose between more bad alternatives when there is one that is almost uncontroversial. So I'll take off-- the airway. The ministry did a terrible job when they put out the regional grid for tenders. They were so concerned about finding competitors at the counterøe’s that they did not take account of the users. It has given a majority in the committee a harsh criticism of it. The Ministry has opened up a lower standard by inviting for the use of small non-pressurised aeroplanes. I thought that time was over. The Ministry has broken down into small route areas, causing internal communication to crumble. Internal communication in Finnmark is becoming difficult, time-consuming and expensive, as is the case in Helgeland. For example, in the industrial community, Rana, some people work in the oil industry, based in Brønnøysund. Today we have three departures each way on weekdays. When the new tender enters into force, there will be zero take-offs. Then you have to go to Bodø or Trondheim before you can go to Brønnøysund, and vice versa if you go to the hospital in Rana from Brønnøysund. In other words, poor internal communication. When the representative Sahl tells me he's got such good signals from the outside, people are so happy, he's got signals from a different reality than the one I know. That Værøy has received a worse offer than before on his helicopter route when the state actually has to pay more, is also not a good craftsmanship. Good craftsmanship does not seem to me to have been done in fast - paced cases. In June, during the examination of the revised national budget, negotiations were refused. It would come next year under the transport plan. Only we in SV said that we did not have time to wait for it, because if the companies are to contract new boats, they have to have an agreement they can relate to when it comes to purchasing services. The Ministry changed its mind, and a five-year agreement has been negotiated. It does not provide long-termity, neither for the coastal communities nor for the companies. It would have given a future to negotiate an agreement with a 20-year perspective, as the companies invite in the growth model. It would have given a future. Finally, I would like to say something positive – before the end of the day: there has been a small upturn in investments in fishing ports, as well as investment and maintenance of lighthouses, lights and brands. In this area a good deal can be done for modest means. Then I have to end by including the suggestions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e435	Inge Myrvoll has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e440	SV often advocates a greater regional effort in the transport sector and a social action that has a better environment as a major objective. That's exactly what the representative Myrvoll has confirmed here from the pulpit. The population of Senja in Troms and Troms County has for a number of years struggled to build an internal road in the municipalities of Berg and Torsken. This route will have a very important impact on the active business community and on the settlement in this area, because it will reduce road distances between the towns by many miles. In other words, it is a very good district measure and an excellent environmental measure, because it significantly reduces driving time. Norwegian road and road traffic plans for 1998–2007 set up for the launch of this project during the first four-year period. In the setting up of the Transport Committee, the Workers' Party is taking part in the launch of this project in 2001. Then my question is: why could SV not support the Workers' Party in this? This is a project in North Norway, it is a district project and, in my view, also an environmental project, which Myrvoll spoke so much about, and which he has as a clue through his work in the Committee on Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e449	When we made this setting, I was a little unsure about whether to include and mention the projects I thought should start in 2001. I let it be, both when it was Senja, when it was Korgberg and some other projects that might have been started before 2001 – but then it's getting money for it. I think it is important that the representative of the Workers' Party works a little harder in-house in his own party, so that there is at all some money to weigh in in the part of the country from which he and I come. With the promises that lie there for the Central East, I think we can have trouble making the promise that concerns Senja, but I'm not going to oppose it. I think it's a good project. It's going to be a priority for me, as long as it's in the priority place from Troms, and it does. When we manage to get money for Troms, like Finnmark and Nordland, we will probably get that road started and more. It's a bit of a job to do, but that job I don't think is the hardest when it comes to me. I think it's more difficult in your own big group. So I want him to be happy to get money for North Norway at the Workers' Party. It began to go down under Opseth, and it has only gone down under ever-new state councils from the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. We're going to be able to reverse that trend, right?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e461	The representative Inge Myrvoll spoke about various questions to me and the Progress Party, among others. This with the railway and why we lowered the subsidy to it. We believe that competition should be on the track, and that the railway works will be in charge of the E6. So to this with the post offer today. It's very different from before, for example. several electronic services. You're less dependent on the old post office. The Progress Party is more concerned with the availability of postal services, including: using premises that are open in the evening. SV likes to call himself district friendly, but the representative Inge Myrvoll, who is from Northern Ireland, should know that what is needed most, is better roads, and not railway, on which SV pays. Has the representative Myrvoll forgotten our districts? From the budgetary position, SV has more than DKK 1.7 billion in reduction of Chapter 1320 of the State Road Service in relation to the proposals of the Progress Party. That's $300 million. kr less for the operation and maintenance of our national roads, and over SEK 1.3 billion less for national road investments and SEK 125 million. kr smaller for road use. Does the representative Inge Myrvoll think this is a good district effort?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e471	To make a little comment on the first on the Progress Party and the railway. What I tried to point out is that the Progress Party has some dramatic cuts at the Railway Agency, both in investment and maintenance. I did not mention this with competition and the purchase of services. That's what I left to mention. And what surprises me is that the Progress Party is involved in a lot of comments that are quite precious. However, they will continue the Westfold and Eastfold tracks, they will be for the Eidanger Tunnel and for tilting on the Kongsvinger Railway, etc. That was when I wondered how to make this happen. And we got no answer to that. In the case of SV and whether there is a good district policy we have: Yes, it is! Now it was very clever to compare SV's budget with that of the Progress Party and not with that of the Government or the majority. And it seemed like there was a big gap – and that's what it is on the road side – between us and the Progress Party. We can't operate the way the Progress Party does, just cut wildly at things that would have dramatic consequences. And in addition, most of their road money spends in central strokes. We have more money on the road, for example. to my part of the country that the Progress Party has, within a much more responsible framework than they have. They're the knights of the highway, it's primarily these four-field highways that are going to swallow their investment funds. That's where the big, insatiable swallow is at the Progress Party. So in terms of the regional policy profile, we're getting a lot better, but it's clear that for those who want motorways, the solutions of the Progress Party must be clearly the best. But you'll see the cost when they cut the Post, on the railway and in all other areas. But they've learned one thing since last year, and I'd like to praise them for that. It is the first year in a long time that they have not cut off the purchase of services on the high-speed route and from the regional short-distance network. They have finally realised that these are the contracts that the State has entered into, and the State would have lost any legal case if this had gone through.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e480	I must admit that I was genuinely concerned about the representative, Inge Myrvoll, who in the beginning expressed a lack of motivation for the budgetary work and for the debate. I can reassure the assembly by saying that the representative Inge Myrvoll did not lack motivation in the autumn, as he did not see himself too small to ask the entire Nordic bench to move south because of a lack of district bet. So there was money for District Norway, the so-called ESA money, and there was a gravel road package with a relatively large amount for the representative of Myrvoll's homeland. And what did the representative Myrvoll do? Well, then he spoke to the press and called it -- I'm sorry about the expression, President -- a lot of money. It seems to me that it is a very bad way to explain that this government was willing to bet on District Norway and try to solve the problem that lay in gravel roads that have not been covered. When everything is expressed incorrectly and black, I have to say that in many ways it is very difficult to attach trust to what is being said. Now the representative Inge Myrvoll is to be commended for having produced a good distribution of bias between the centre and the district. But then it is that I read with despair that the representative Inge Myrvoll is joining forces with the Labour Party and the Advance Party on a solid commitment, and the representative Myrvoll avoided mentioning here, namely the Bjørvika project. I have to ask the representative, Inge Myrvoll, is this money dirty or not?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e489	The president has some doubts about what this expression really means, but she assumes that since it's Nordic language, a wise liberalism needs to accept it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e492	I don't think I'm going to try to explain, because then the president might have to club anyway. To put it like that, the representative Sahl doesn't have to feel worried about me. So I'm a little bit inspired by a debate on a budget that's out of perspective. Then he starts to say, "Yes, but think about everything we've got!" We've got a gravel road package. Yeah, really, here you get less on the regular budgets, and then you move it over to a gravel road package. The same money you would have had for other projects is given in a gravel road package that is ear-marked. Is there going to be something more out of it? The sum is going to be equal to the sum, or to say it's going to be even smaller than it was. There's never been so little money for that part of the country, at least not after the war, when you think percent of the road budget. The numbers before the war I haven't seen, but I doubt that there was anything worse than now. Then there was the ESA money, which, according to the municipal minister, is pure compensation for the additional costs of increasing the employer’s fees and which should be as targeted as possible in relation to the companies involved. You have to do that in a big way to prove that it's something. My point is that it has never been as low as 11.5 pst. And sail if one comes up to 12 pst. If you take the ESA money, it's the middle of the year, along with last year. The numbers' speech is ready. So there's a question about Bjørvika: Is there a lot of money? No, it's a valuable project, it's one of the projects that I'm giving priority to down here. There's also a story, we actually put in town council, and then we lifted that project up as a larger urban development project. But there are many projects that I've said no to down here, that we spend a lot of money on, but that we shouldn't have spent money on. For example, it's the Oslofjord connection, the new four-field motorway in Vestfold, etc. –I could have rammed more. So I'm going to be critical, and I'm not going to support the Workers' Party in the vision of a new four-field or six-field highway, or whatever they're going to have, beyond Asker – at all. But if we spend some money on a new double track on the railway beyond there, I'm in – too full!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e505	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e508	A good supply in road, rail, air and sea transport has much to say for business and construction throughout the country. The development and maintenance of transport provision is therefore both an important regional policy instrument and a fundamental value of traffic management in key areas. In order to stimulate the development of nutrition and sophistication across the country, it also means a great deal that there is a nationwide and equivalent supply of basic postal and telecommunications services. The budget we have today to deal with is tight. The goal of high employment and a steady decline in interest rates means that a tight government budget is needed. Left is pleased that one within tight frames has priority: continue efforts to improve public transport infrastructure in the metropolitan area, with a focus on road safety measures, allowing for the increase in racial protection allowances for maintenance, both when it comes to road maintenance and maintenance of the network, increasing the commitment to research and developmentThe budget agreement between the Government Party and the Workers' Party increased the funds for investment in relation to national and county roads, port development and operation/maintenance of our ferries, or in my language: the maritime road. In addition to this agreement, no change has been made to the Government's draft budget. It is therefore with great wonder a record in the media that the Stortinget mentions this government's policy in very «surmaga» order. There are several newspaper queries with announcements from the Government's partners, the Workers' Party, that the Government must find itself in being embarrassed at several points. In the Left, we have the tradition of treating our partners with respect; we have noted the comments of the Labour Party's representatives. Reducing health and environmental damage for most people in Oslo and simultaneously creating better flow and better predictions, not least for business transport, are important measures that the Left attaches high priority to. The left is very pleased that the government is working on a toll proposition for Oslopackak 2, as well as the start of the T-banging and double-track Skøyen-Asker. In March, the Government will present its proposal to the National Transport Plan. Here, a holistic Oslopacket 2, clarifying the overall financial framework for the package, will be provided. The budgets for the national transport plan are now out of reach, and in March the Government will present its proposal. For the Left, transport policy is not a ‘building policy’, but a prioritisation to make the most of what we need. The left considers it necessary to take new steps to resolve the traffic disruption in the central area. There are on average 1,2 passengers per. car waiting in line along the E18. If passengers per car on average increased to 1.4, the actual queue would disappear approximately. There is a need for other means than to increase capacity on the road network. The left is very pleased that a large number of people, all parties outside the Advance Party, have signed up to the framework agreement with the fast-moving companies on the purchase of transport services. When discussing and dealing with the national transport plan, it is clear that we are discussing a more long-term development of fast-haul routes, both from a business perspective, from a tourist perspective, from a district perspective and from a transport perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e553	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e556	The representative Vihovde was in his article on Oslopackak 2 and the investment in public transport that needs to be made. It is positive that it should be invested in infrastructure and new material on the railway. It's also good that many of us want to drive collectively, but that doesn't mean you don't have to build the road network – even here in the Oslo pot. Now it's really like most people here travel by plane. It's been a good offer, but it's an economic disaster. I sometimes wonder who the majority in this room thinks the NSB is for, whether it is such that the NSB exists for the consumer. The NSB has been put in a unique monopoly situation by Stortinget, and we know that Stortinget buys NSB passenger transport services for almost NOK 1 billion. At the same time, ticket prices are increasing and increasing. What I wonder if the representative Vihovde has made some reflections about is: Are NSB's offers – based on the money they manage – compared to the services and services we receive? We know very little about it. The only thing we know is that the evaluation of tenders for regular services has led to the recognition that competitive outsourcing leads to a reduction in aid needs. We also know that in Sweden there is now competition on the track. It leads to multiple departures, multiple passengers and several stations, with the same grant from the State. As stated, the NSB has a monopoly on rail transport, but Ueland has opened up competition on the track – mainly on freight, but it will probably also affect passenger traffic. The Government also smells at this competitive environment. What I'm wondering about is whether the representative Vihovde and the left will now be an inciter to the government, so that competition can be on the road, even on passenger transport, for the consumer's benefit. And will the representative Vihodde help put the consumer's needs in focus, and not the NSB's?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e571	In the left we've always been busy putting people in the center, and that is, when it comes to the NSB, the passenger. Now the government has received a report, and it is alert that it will come back to Stortinget with any proposals for competition on the track. The representative Oddvard Nilsen was also in his main post that he looked forward to it – now there was a government that actually saw the need for competition. However, if there is to be competition on the track, it is also necessary to ensure the maintenance necessary, to ensure that the running line is there, that there are enough rails and enough tracks, so that these trains, which may compete with each other, have tracks to go on. It's job number. 1st@item: inlistbox So this case comes back to Stortinget, and it's probably opening up for competition on the track – it's going to work for Left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e580	Since the representative Vihovde obviously gave me a visit, it might be appropriate to give a little comment back. Let me first make it clear that I've never used the word humiliation to the newspaper, it'll be on the journalist's account. I'm glad we got a budget settlement. I am pleased that we have received a budget that both the Centre and the Workers' Party can stand behind. At the same time, however, it must be allowed to point out that the Committee has, in fact, both strongly criticised the Government at some points and has given very clear guidance on a policy different from that proposed by the Government in some areas. The offer of regional aviation is the most obvious example, which is the criticism strongly, the solution for Oslopackak 2, the T-banning, the situation of lighthouses and brands, where the review of the Stortinget has been requested by the Stortinget, the infrastructure plan for aviation, the procedure for road projects, the Stortinget's unanimous refusal to wind up the central system of retirement and child savings, another solution for the rapid transit had been sought, but concludes according to the circumstances of the proposal that lies there, the question of a systematic classification of ports – here is a set of measures, where some instructions have been given to the Government, and I am very pleased if the representative of Vihoved is to confirm that the Government and Government parties are taking this up and will follow up these obligations. I'll take that as a matter of course. But let us agree that it is not the case that the Government's policy has been endorsed on all points, even though the Government's budget has been endorsed by the changes made to the budget agreement. There are relatively strong leaders in many areas, and not least I think the government is wise to notice that there is also a significant criticism of some points.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e591	I am pleased that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen has not said that he wants to soften this government. But when you look at some of these newspaper headlines and some of the comments in this budget position, when you look at answers given both by representatives from the government parties and government councils on a number of questions – one can take the airline infrastructure plan, where the government party in its note says that it is quite clear that an airline infrastructure plan is and must be part of a national transport plan, nor has it been written in the budget that it will not be there – at least from the left's point of view that a person is trying to create some conflicts, delegations and indications against the government, and that a criticises the government's policy. This is the last budget we have before us to deal with the national transport plan, and that is the desire to provide some guidance for the document we are now receiving in March, which we also understand. But I want to say, when a member hears some statements, say for example. the incentive discount scheme: the government has never made proposals to abolish the discount scheme for the elderly, for the disabled and for children. One only suggested that the county should be allowed to decide this. But then it is also used as criticism of the government's policy. I wanted to point out in my post that we have noticed, and we in the left have not liked that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e597	The left is a party that should have not only the human being in the center, but at least once for some years was also concerned with the environment. Sometimes you can connect the two things and get a good result, and then I think it becomes a bit puzzled when you say about the railway: maintenance, maintenance. After all, we had a government council a couple of years ago that said sleepers and pucks, sleepers and pucks. And that's important. Overhead line is important. But an environmental party with the human being in the center must be a little more visionary – for example. say that it is clear that we need some strategic investment, for example. have a double-tracked, fast Westfold track and Eastfold track, where the driving speed doubles so that half the time can be spent in relation to now travelling. The railway is the only means of transport that is even environmentally friendly, which can do that, if you get a double track where you don't stand and wait for crossing trains, and which has the standard and the quality that makes us get up a little bit – a little more such visions from the Left, if you're going to be an environmental party. And think for the people, for a freedom it is to be allowed not to sit in the car, to sit on the train and read newspapers, sleep; you can even take a beer after you have left work and take the train or the T-Bahn – or whatever it should be – home. So the question of public transport, trains and so forth is also a question of freedom for man, freedom of choice. But then we have to have a good offer, so I think the Left should be a little more visionary, a little more offensive and say: we allow good maintenance, and then we need some investment to get these environmental options in place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e602	Now we in SV and left are in the situation that because of the size we don't get that long speaking time in this room, and we've well expressed from both sides that we could have wanted longer speaking time. Then I would have been very visionary and talk about more than sleepers and pucks, and I would also like to talk about what I wanted for the Norwegian railway. But I want to remind the representative Myrvoll of something. I am talking about ‘bauta policy’, and I believe that when we are going to discuss the national transport plan, it may well be that the representative Myrvoll and the representative Vihovde are very few on which projects should be prioritised. But in the left we're so realistic that we stick to a multiple. Within the framework of this transport budget, some major road projects have to be implemented, which have started up and which will be a major environmental disaster to stop. I want to remind the representative Myrvoll of an announcement from this pulpit, where SV had as a suggestion to stop the triangular connection and use them for other things. One might mean what one wants about the Triangle Connection, but when I looked at the pile of pucks that were in my municipality, and when I looked at what environmental disaster and environmental costs it would have been if one had stopped this project, I became a little bit in doubt about SV's environmental policy. But I think the SV and the Left have a common understanding, and then we'll see what we can find out in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e609	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e612	Several representatives have also spoken many beautiful words in today's debate about the importance of transport for our country's housing and business. That is so good, but then we have to look at what are the realities. In a free trade society, businesses will establish where the total costs, including transport costs, are expected to be lower in the long term. It's not like that, for example. a case or paper mill can determine its own prices to some extent. Prices are given in the market. This means that a company with high transport costs cannot compensate for this by taking higher prices. The iron law of the market says that if this is the case, the company must either produce much more efficiently than its competitors, or be eliminated in the long term. Because capital does not ask for an address, capital shall have its return. Many say that the years of transport are the 'blood years' of our society. Yeah, that's it. In the long term, however, transport costs determine whether an enterprise survives or is reduced. Without good roads and without rail that works where we have track, business disappears from the districts. Therefore, transport investment must become an even greater part of nutrition and district policy than is the case today. Until now, we have used, among other things, transport investment in countercyclical policies to increase employment. This easily leads to a jojo effect at the investment level, and we cannot live with that in the future. In relation to the needs around the country, we need to have a more stable level of investment. I also put a big question in this context about the employment effect by using transport investment in this way. Today, the machines do the job; the hack and the spade are gone. That is why we need to take the debate to ensure that transport investment is a key element of business and district policy. Rather, we should give priority to other instruments that we use today in the field of district policy. Although we have an increase in the investment framework for the road sector in next year's budget, it is very close to the identified need. Following the budgetary agreement, national road investment is increased by 75 million. So it's going to be $25 million. kr more for the highway reinforcement programme. As many have been involved, the majority suggest that funds should be used for projects that have stopped due to lack of funding or have a rational drive. The majority also assumes that the projects which are not completed in 2000 will continue to progress on a continuous basis. In other words, the municipalities concerned must also be involved and give priority to these projects in future budgets. The majority propose an increase in the grant to county roads, i.e. the reinforcement programme. The majority suggest that priority should be given to major county roads connecting to the national road network, major agglomerations and industrial establishments. The majority also assume that the states of Nordland, Hedmark, Oppland and South-Trøndelag are given priority in this context, among others. assuming that these counties have the most kilometres of roads characterised by long distances and poor standards. But I would like to stress most strongly that this is an extra effort, so that the states that receive these funds do not have to add up to a reduction in relation to what these states have already granted in their budgets for 2000. We are now approaching the end of this road map period. After three years of this 4-year period, the result shows large differences between the individual strain viruses and the counties on the rest of the national road network with regard to the allocation of investment funds. The majority of the Committee is deeply concerned about this development. I hope the Council of State has noticed this concern and also the majority's assumption that there needs to be a better blending for the different strain viruses and the states between them. It's the main roads, especially routes 2 and 3 on E6, which are the worst way out. This is an unfortunate development, especially because E6 is the backbone of our tribal network. E6 must therefore be given priority. In the case of other national roads, there are five counties that have so far come out poorly. Some of these counties also came out poorly in the previous road planning period. Of course, this is unfortunate, and it must be an objective to lift these states in the 2001 budget. Like the Government, the Committee is concerned with the level of operation and maintenance of our roads. It's worrying when we're missing 700 million next year. to add to the maintenance of the road capital which prevents further deterioration. And to the representative of Ringstad, I would like to say, here too, the sitting government must be involved in taking responsibility. The majority take the view that there is a different need for maintenance materials around the counties. E.g.: on this basis, the majority calls for the Council of State to come back with a somewhat more thorough analysis of the needs for means of operation and maintenance in the national transport plan. The majority are also not satisfied with the implementation of funds for smaller investment measures in relation to the objectives of the Roadmap and in particular with the construction of pedestrian and cyclist roads. That is why a unanimous committee is concerned about whether it is possible to build more walking and cycling roads if you add to a more flexible standard than is the case today. The Committee asks the State Councils to return to this in their national transport plan. The majority also ask the State Councils to include racial protection as part of the ordinary national roads in the national transport plan, i.e. not as own item in the budget. We are all concerned with racial protection, but I believe that the danger of a separate budget line is that the states do not give priority to racial protection by, among other things. a good part of the development project pending central funding from a separate item for racial protection. In this way – I think – false expectations are created, and you can also get an rational plant operation on a lot of projects. The representative Myrvoll had a strong concern for the bet in central strokes. We'll probably have to hand it to some people in the heart, and each one of us will have to take the recognition that the flow of goods is going through just central lines. That's why we're totally dependent on the traffic systems operating here, for E6 and E18. Because it is the way the fish from Fröya go through these areas in their journey down to Europe. The same applies to the skifer from Oppdal and the whitefish from Northernland. The representative Myrvoll was further inside the Melhus project. I think if you want to pick the Vassfjell option, you're going to get a much more expensive solution than what we have today. If we look at what we have in relation to the overall framework of E6, I would think it would be much harder to get started with the Korgfjell tunnel, which I know the representative Myrvoll is also concerned about. The second is that we do not solve any traffic problems in Melhu's centre, because the large traffic flow that will come from the west, from the Orkdals region and the Tjeldbergodden, will have to go through Melhu's centre and not drive the long roundabout of Trondheim. Ergo we might have to find two different solutions in Melhus, one that solves the traffic problem in the center, and another that's going to go in a long tunnel through the Korg Mountain. I want to finish with a project that has not been mentioned, and it is Drammenspakket. Of course, the majority assume that we are going to implement the Drama Package, but we are asking as fervently as we can, that the Council of State will ensure that we have a unified progress plan for that project, and with local agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e648	I am pleased to note that all the main features of the Government's policy on transport are fully endorsed by a majority in the UK. I recognise that the 2000 budget is tight, while giving opportunities to increase in key areas of transport policy. In particular, the rural profile of the budget is strengthened by earmarked bets in areas that will benefit the districts. I refer to the cross-sectional ‘Gross Road Package’, compensation for the increase in the employer’s fee, strong investment in the regional air route network and the increase in the purchase of non-socio-economic postal services. In the cities, the government wants a greater effort for improved collective services that reduces the accessibility problems of many of our cities today. Therefore, the collective package – Oslopackak 2 – is so important to be realised. I have recorded that the spokespersons from the Workers' Party have stated in the media that they have saved the transport budget. It must be mildly said to distort the truth. I am glad that in the agreement with the Workers' Party there was a total increase in the road budget of 100 million kroner. kr. However, it must be pointed out that in the negotiations with the Labour Party 40 million had to be cut. kr on other important parts of the transport budget, such as the rail and aviation sectors. So the net is an increase of 60 million. kr, which, if we're going to compare, is equivalent to what is needed to build a two-kilometre mountain tunnel. The overall aim of the government’s road policy is to ensure better accessibility for the population and business in all parts of the country, while minimising the negative consequences of road construction and road traffic. The challenge is to correct the road network in order to eliminate congestion and bottlenecks, to provide short routes and to ensure a minimum standard on the road network. Improved accessibility will require significant investment. Within the proposed framework, emphasis has been placed on ensuring the maximum degree of rational plant operation for start-up installations. Although it will not be possible to fully address rational progress, there will be an improvement in 2000 compared with 1999 and previous years. In addition, attention has been paid to protecting smaller investment measures that have a positive impact on road safety, as well as measures to comply with local air pollution and noise limit values. As a result of these priorities, only a few new plants were set up by the Ministry in 2000. At the same time, a high effort is needed on the operation and maintenance of the existing road and rail network. The draft budget provides for a certain strengthening of the operation and maintenance of the road network at the expense of launching new projects. I therefore note with satisfaction that a clear majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposals for operating and maintenance appropriations. The level of safety in road traffic is high compared to most other developed countries. However, the situation is not acceptable when more than 300 people die in traffic each year. Traffic safety is therefore a key challenge in road policy. In the operation of the road network, measures aimed at road safety are a priority. This includes, inter alia: prioritisation of winter operations, which is also necessary in order to achieve a higher rigidity and thereby improve the environment. The focus will be on changing attitudes and behaviours of road users. An example of this is that the Lagning will deal later today with a change in the law that will provide the basis for a ban on the use of handheld mobile phones while driving a car. The government will also focus on measures for safer school roads. In August 1999, the Ministry of Transport, according to Stortinget’s wishes, presented the Road Race Protection Action Plan 1999. The plan provides a comprehensive overview of the allocations and expected racial protection efforts in the 1998-2007 Roadmap period. The government is proposing to continue the extra effort on racial protection, which will help to make it safer to travel in areas where there are many razed roads, while at the same time saving both life and health. Racial security will be a special priority area of transport policy for the coming planning period. I regret the fact that the Committee has various comments on Oslopackakt 2. This is a high priority for the Government to reduce the damage to health and the environment in the Oslo region while creating better flow and predictability of business transport. Therefore, I wanted to promote a toll proposition for Oslopackak 2 in the autumn in order to start up local collection from the turn of the year, while the Government proposed funds for starting up the T-banning and double-track Skøyen-Asker and notified Stortinget about this. However, one did not wish locally to take the necessary decisions before final consideration in the Stortinget. I respect this. Therefore, a comprehensive Oslo package 2 now needs to be developed in parallel with the work of the national transport plan, in order to clarify the financial framework for the package. I also see that a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right and the SV are open so that the State can undertake to share the responsibility for any cost excesses for the T-banning. This will be a new pre-emptive principle, not least in relation to other urban municipalities with similar plans and in relation to county municipalities with over-expenses on the investment side. The Committee also gives strong leadership in the improvement of the Stokkajuvet at Rv 542 in Hordaland. Such a correction is estimated to cost 30 million. kr. Fifteen million. kr is covered by tolls from the Triangle Connection, and SEK 15 million. To be gunned locally. The matter will probably be sent to the department within a few weeks, and I expect to return to Stortinget with the matter during the spring session. I broadly agree with the Committee's 75 million allocation. kr for individual projects. This will improve the progress of existing installations. However, I have to point out that the proposal to start up Rv 120 Erpestad-Gardermoen again will provide a binding of nearly 100 million. kr for the years 2001 and 2002. Since this is a national road and is under a divided framework, it is necessary that Akershu County Council is in agreement with such a re-prioritisation in relation to projects that are already prioritized. I therefore have to make a small reservation on the county priorities before this plant can be put back into operation again, and that rational progress can be made without any new stoppages in the plant operation. The railway is now developing positively. In recent years it has seen a higher growth than the overall growth of traffic in passenger traffic. It is worth noting that passenger transport by train increased by nearly 40 pst. in the 1990s, while there was a drop of 11 p.m. in the previous decade. Where there are real choices between road and rail, the market share of the railway is significantly higher than that of the Progress Party in the Committee position. The opening of the Gardermoban and, inter alia, the opening of the Gardermoban heeled train investments mean a significant improvement in the train offer so that the railway can continue to increase its market shares, both in passenger and freight transport. In the next year’s budget, a tight budget line has found room to continue the high rate of roll-out-related investment measures on the rail track. The rate of rollover measures will be followed up in the last year of the current planning period. As of 1 April 2000, the Government strongly recommended the new bids in aviation for the regional air services in Norway. Compared to the current tendering period, capacity increase and quality improvement will take the form of an increase in the number of direct routes in all the countries concerned. The unanimous assent of the Committee on Transport to the proposal for a regulation under Chapter II. 1310 implies that all tenders will be carried out in line with the contracts awarded. In the case of Røst and Fenres, tenders with a deadline of 3 January 2000 have been invited. The majority of the Transport Committee, the Workers' Party, Right and SV indicate that significant changes to the route schedule have been made during the forthcoming tendering period. I would like to point out that the changes that are coming will essentially lead to improvements in the regional air services. These improvements have not least a background to the priorities of the county councils in their thorough discussions with the Ministry of Transport on tenders in 1998. In order to ensure that the tendering conditions are met, all contracts will be closely followed up by the Ministry of Transport. I would like to point out here that in all contracts concluded from 1 April 2000, there are conditions under which production needs to be increased by use of the seat above 70 pst. This shall ensure that the capacity of the flight offer, including for Feners and Værøy, is sufficient to meet the demand during the tendering period. In the telecommunications sector, I can inform you that during December, there will be a big message about access to the mobile network and third-generation mobile phones. In the postal sector, the changes are also significant, which will be presented in the new year. In the overall transport policy, we are faced with far greater tasks than what is possible within a responsible economic policy. In order to realise important projects earlier than otherwise possible, I am of the opinion that toll financing should continue to be used. At the same time, I would like to stress that, as long as a project is not fully financed through tolls, political funding and priority must be given to the State. I assume that in such an important area of society as good communications, public should have the primary responsibility and make the necessary political priorities. Therefore, when the Spring Summit is to deal with the national transport plan, this will have ample opportunity to give priority to transport measures for 10 years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e688	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e691	The size has previously joined a merger of Telenor and Telia. This is a combination of two equivalent companies, where there has been a constant balance between the two countries. There was agreement between the two owners that the board of directors of the new company should decide where the management of the different business areas should be located. At the same time, it was emphatically clarified that such cases should be dealt with in accordance with specific voting rules. In the submission to the Swedish Government of the merger of Telenor and Telia, the Government provides such information: ‘The decision is subject to the special voting rights rules established in the shareholder agreement, i.e. at least one shareholder-elected representative from each country must agree to the decision.’;» The size joined it. The Vice-Chairman of the new company’s board, Arnfinn Hofstad, has today stated that decisions on the location of business areas are not formally taken. Hofstad says: ‘– The Norwegian members of the Governing Board consider that the decision requires a majority of the Governing Board including one member nominated by the Swedish State and one member nominated by the Norwegian State.’ The Workers' Party assumes that the Government is determined by the information given to the Stortinget in St.prp. No 58 for 1998-99 on the merger of Telenor AS and Telia AB, which cannot mean other than that the State Council which owns does not approve the minutes of yesterday's Governing Council.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e710	As regards the approval of the Protocol itself, it may not normally be submitted to the Council of State. However, in this particular case, I have asked to have it presented in order to review what was recorded after yesterday's meeting. Let me say that the Government is considering, as Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen does, that the decision to locate business areas requires treatment under point 4.3(b) of the shareholder agreement, and then with reference to St.prp. No 58 for 1998-99. I have therefore asked the chairman of the company to put the matter back on the ordinary case list for the expected board meeting on 28-29 December this year and to deal with it after the shareholder agreement item 4.3(b). When it comes to the actual distribution of the twelve business lines, I don't want to go into any assessment of them today. This is up to the board to do. There may be different assessments set out in the decisions of the Management Board and there may be constant assessments relating to the requirement for a balanced and equivalent development in these areas between the two countries. Nevertheless, it is for the Governing Board to draw its conclusions on a commercial and commercial basis, so that the overall assessments will ultimately lie with the Governing Board as a body. Let me just conclude by saying that I therefore do not see it as natural that the matter is brought up to the owners at this stage, when, in accordance with the voting rules, the board is so clearly attached to the authority in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e724	Nearly all drivers in Norway are now forced to be lawbreakers because of our rules and bans, and especially the many new ones that are still emerging from the Council of State and the Government. Today, it's probably the much-discussed cover for high-end tyres that's in focus. We have previously had a mobile phone ban, several toll stations and charges in focus, and we are now up to a total of NOK 30 billion in fees. New ideas about road pricing, dot loading and even more trees and charges are at the level of the Council of State and the Government of Bondevik. Could the Council of State not imagine a simplification of laws, regulations and bureaucratic obstacles? Couldn't the Council of State imagine making the daily trip easier and more reasonable for people? Yesterday I got a phone call from an older lady of 70 years. She was very concerned about how she was going to get hold of the illustrious mischief. She was going for a trip from Hedmarken to Oslo, and she had seen in advertisements that she could get the badge at Post and at Esso stations. They had also said that in the municipality, but that was not true. You could also call and buy the banners from your phone, but this lady could not, because she had blocked 815 calls, as these are expensive phone calls. So there she was. The lady was obviously very law-abiding, and she would make up for herself before she arrived at Oslo's border. It is also stated in the law that it must be paid before you reach the city border. The elderly lady was convinced that she could not use her car on a trip to Oslo. This is just one example of how everyday life has become for the drivers. And then I have to ask again: does the Council of State not see that all these laws and regulations are acidifying the normal everyday life of the drivers?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e733	Often some may fall for the temptation to believe that the council is not the owner of a car, driving a car, using fuel, paying tolls etc., but I can at least confirm here and now that I am the owner of a car and the driver, using fuel and paying tolls etc. I am therefore also a member of the simplification of laws and regulations, and there is now an ongoing process in different departments related to the project ‘Simplifying Norway’. It also takes place in the Ministry of Transport and its underlying offices. We hope that we will have positive results in these areas in a reasonably short time. As far as road pricing is concerned, I must stress again and again that this is a traffic regulator that you can decide to introduce locally, in order to regulate the use of roads and the costs associated with it. This House then approves it, and that is why the representatives here have the last word. There is, of course, a bi-thing that pays for road pricing, and they are to be used for traffic purposes. I do not support any crimes in any way, and I will try to prevent anyone from falling into a trap and becoming a criminal without wanting to do so or going to do so. I have, at the request of Stortinget, agreed to obtain permission to allow cities to impose a high-deck charge or a high-deck charge. But I have repeatedly said that there is no ban on driving with heavy tyres in Norway. It is permissible for everyone, for all groups, but it is a principle that says: Contaminants must pay! And for health and environmental reasons, there is a fee for those who drive with high-lift tyres, in order to help bring down the heavy-duty use, but also for those who drive with heavy-duty tyres to pay for the costs they impose on the community.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e743	It could have been tempting to follow up the reply from the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen, but I will leave it. I see of today's business ajour, dated today, that Tormod Hermansen pronounces the following: ‘The company cannot live with a government that functions in the way it did yesterday.’ I think it's quite dramatic to hear something like that. But I expect that we will be informed in a straightforward way by the Council of State on how this matter develops, and I will therefore not take any new lines about it. What I thought I'd take a line for is to say that you can actually be disappointed in politics sometimes. It doesn't matter much, but it does. It's not that many years since we discussed and agreed on how to distribute tribal roads and highways in this hall. The main roads were to take care of the Stortinget both in terms of investment and progress, and the national roads were to give priority to the municipalities. In the budgetary agreement with the Right and Advance Party last year, it was urgent for me that the sum of money that was granted in addition was put on the Council of State table. This money was to be spent on projects where effective propulsion could be ensured. I still think that was right, and that made sense. That's why the disappointment became so great when I saw this year that you have returned to the old habit – if you ask me – and started to list projects with 8 million. DKK, 10 million. NOK 15 million. kr. My question to the Council of State is, does he really think it makes sense to return to the arrangement we all actually agreed that we should wind up?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e761	No, the Council of State doesn't think that makes sense. But I have registered – both while I was myself a representative in this house and also afterwards – that there is something you want as a magnification representative, so it is to show that you start projects, even with small amounts. Some of the challenges in the field of transport policy in recent years have been to do so in too many areas with far too small amounts. It has started with a symbolic amount and has not taken into account the need for rational operation in the years to come. And now we're in trouble. The budget we are now dealing with is the post-war budget that has the strongest ties ever. It's getting much better in 2001. It's related to four projects that take over $1 billion of the total $1.8 billion we have for tribal roads. And it would be very tempting if the supplement from the committee had not come into place, to have got a fairer distribution across the country in the last year of the planning period, started to pick from the four projects and said that it is not possible to implement them with the amounts that you are now making available for next year. But then the Committee has finally added: assuming that it creates rational progress. It's this balance that's hard, and it's going to be very difficult for next year. We need to see what projects we can actually pick from to meet the Biggest assumptions in these areas, if you come back and take this literally at the next budgetary procedure. It's in the dilemma we're now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e770	After drawing lots of interesting themes, I'm going to pick up the regional grid. It seems to me that the department has had the overriding aim of getting more companies to come in as tenderers. In Norway, there are not so many companies that can fly on that type of network, and in order to get this done, they have split it into very small pieces, almost a single route, and also some places opened up for a reduced standard, except for aircraft, without pressurisation, etc., in the hope that others could also compete with the dominant operator – on the contrary. I have a feeling that users' interests have been less focused. And we've got some results that are unfortunate. One of those things I mentioned in my post, that internal communication has become too bad. In some parts of the country, there are so many distances that you also use airplanes as internal communications. And then it can actually be difficult to travel in your own country – you have to take big turns – whether you live in Finnmark or in Helgeland. I am therefore wondering: in the tender that has now been accepted, give some opportunity to discuss with the actors – that is, essentially Onions – whether a girl can join the route so that it is possible to have an internal communication that works, for example. do not travel via cities that are quite far away, in order to change aircraft to travel internally in their own country? Or is this fixed throughout the tendering period, without any possibility of modification?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e779	The so-called FOT routes, the tendering routes, are locked to the company that has got the contract, but where there are no routes, cross-connections, etc., it is up to the airlines if they want to fly there anyway. When I say it this way, it's because many of the internal connections it refers to now have not been in contracts before, but have been flown anyway, and I think it can happen in the future as well. But we have a concrete problem, and that is that from the counties there has been an increasing demand for more and more direct routes and also for reduced prices. Direct routes versus internal connections are thus becoming a problem. That's why we want to light up a lot more direct routes this time than before. We have also split up some routes, simply because – to say it in this room – we were not going to get into the situation that we were complained about for ESA to tailor the arrangements that were only adapted to a single operator. In other words, we are in the situation that we have a large grid that is covered by a few large operators, who do a very good job, but in the case of those airports and routes that require less capacity than a 37-seat, one came in – possibly two – new companies. The others won the big company with large planes. Otherwise it has not been such that there has been a requirement for a pressure cabin in the calls earlier. Some of us have lived our whole lives with the Twin Otter, and the Twin Otter was part of everyday life. There was nothing in the way that the Twin Otter could continue to fly. In other words, it is a misunderstanding that we have changed the requirements in this area. It's only been this way through the renewal of the Ungoee fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e788	A lot could be said about calls for tender. Here I refer to the remarks in the vote, and the assumption that the ministry will return to it in the next year's budget. However, I find reason to refer to my previous line. I noticed that the Council of State confirmed that localisation decisions have to be made in accordance with the specific voting rights rules. As a consequence, the decision taken at yesterday's board meeting is not valid and there is no formal decision. It follows that the Protocol cannot therefore be approved. I assume that the board of directors will follow the Norwegian Government's order to re-approve the matter, in accordance with the rules set out in the shareholder agreement. The Labour Party assumes that the Government will follow this matter very closely. It is correct that the Management Board has been given responsibility for the localisation process in accordance with the rules laid down in the shareholder agreement. But, of course, it is the Norwegian government that is responsible for following the Storting assumptions and the government's own information to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e797	I have no difficulty in agreeing with the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen in both his interpretation and his argument and – not least – his appeal to the board regarding the process further. I am bound to draw the attention of the Stortinget to the fact that there is a slightly different view of these questions – at least this evening – at the hands of the Swedish and Norwegian owners, the Swedish Minister for Economic Affairs and the Norwegian Minister for Transport, as regards the interpretation of point 4.3(b). There is no doubt on my part about what the assumptions are, and what the requirement is, in this context, and therefore I have encouraged the board to carry out a formal examination and make the necessary decisions to comply with paragraph 4.3(b). Now I also have to say that the media projections over a long time have focused a lot on one of the twelve business areas. It is clear that for the two countries the other eleven business lines are also important. It is not that one country needs only one of the business areas, and the other country can get the eleven others. The assumption is that there should be equivalence, that, in sum, this can be said to be non-discrimination, and that, on the basis of business and economic considerations, it has been correctly concluded in governance. With regard to the individual business area that has been discussed in recent times, I will not go into it this evening for natural reasons, as I assume that the board of the new company is dealing with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e808	President! Can I correct an obvious misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e815	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen gets the floor for an obvious misunderstanding, which I assume it is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e818	I find reason to stress that I have not commented on the individual business lines in any of my articles. That's not my point either. My point is that the shareholder agreement should be followed and that the government's information [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e823	Schjött-Pedersen has been given the floor for a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e826	I'm about to finish it. Of course, the government's information to the Storing should be taken into account. That presupposes that I'm being done, and sees it as a confirmation from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e832	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e835	The development of societies and nations requires good communication between people and a transport policy that meets the need for transport. This is important for the settlement and establishment of jobs, especially in the districts. In our own country, major changes have occurred over the last 150 years — at sea, on land and in the air. This has led to major challenges as traffic has increased, in particular in the field of safety. Although there is much to be done before the arrival and safety are in line with the needs of the users, I think there are few who want to return to the so-called good old days. In particular, good communications are important for our industry and trade both within Norway and with the rest of the world. In addition to the traditional communications systems, the electronic networks have also evolved rapidly and changed their daily lives in the thousands of homes in which the data age has taken up. We've become dependent on our power and our keyboard, as the problems related to the shift to the year 2000 show, but at the same time technology has made life easier for most people. Machines and robots have taken over heavy and boring tasks, but at the same time have faced new challenges regarding work and leisure. Today's debate on transport is marked by good wishes, but it is not enough when we know that there is a great need for better progress and road maintenance, and that there is a lack of funds. This is particularly pronounced around our larger cities, but also in our districts there is a great need for better transport routes for our businesses and our businesses. Consultations in the context of the transport budget bear the hallmark of great frustration among users of the road network. There is also great frustration among the drivers, who do not understand that so little of what the state takes in the car and car use comes back in the form of better roads and accessibility. And I understand that very well. What can be done to improve the situation? The Progress Party believes that, in addition to increased efforts in the road sector, rationalisation, efficiency and gradual reduction of road administrations must also be initiated, and parts of the State Road Service covering operational and maintenance tasks must be transformed into a public limited liability company with a view to the subsequent sale of the shares. The machinery park of the State Road Service must be stepped down, while the use of open tenders for private contractors must be stepped up. In this context, the Progress Party considers it important that national public transport resources should only be used for road purposes, including road safety and environmental measures. The assumption must be that road projects have a satisfactory dietary benefit, while improving the promotion of job security and road safety for all users. The Progress Party regards the private car as the most important and necessary means of transport in Norway, especially in the districts. Without access to personal transport for work, school, leisure and social contacts, the living conditions of the Norwegians and the Norwegian population will deteriorate. The Progress Party will therefore continue to fight for lower car charges and stimulate consumers to afford an environmentally sound, safe and energy efficient car fleet. The Transport Budget is this time marked by the compromise reached between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. There is no room for many important road projects, which go beyond the districts and the entryways of our larger cities. I would also like to point out that there is an increased need for money for operation and maintenance. If this need is not met, road capital will be reduced and the cost to society will be high later. Here the Progress Party hopes that the other parties will soon understand that a take-off must be made, but unfortunately their budget does not bear the mark of it. The delays in the maintenance of our roads have now been estimated at approx. Eight billion. Over long distances, aeroplanes are superior to all other means of communication. It is therefore important that competition in Norwegian domestic aviation and routes from Norwegian airports to the rest of the world continues. The Progress Party will underline the need for a new tower at Trondheim airport Værnes, a new operating building at Tromsø airport Langnes, new expedition building and new terminal radar at Stavanger airport Sola, and the extension of the baggage hall at Bergen airport Flesland. These airports are hubs of Norwegian aviation and are also involved in the upkeep of other airports. The Progress Party also wants Norwegian maritime transport to be strengthened by making it attractive to private interests and for port facilities to be taken over and operated by private individuals in line with market needs. The Progress Party is also committed to increasing the investment in electronic navigation aids, with particular emphasis on electronic navigational charts and better labelling of our coastal fairways, in order to improve the safety of both people and goods. In this context, the Progress Party proposes that 20 million be allocated. kr over cap. 1064 item 33 for the start of the tunnel project through the State of the City. As far as the railway is concerned, this good quality in the case of heavy goods which are to be carried over long distances and which do not depend on time, but in the case of passenger services, only the intercity trains can, in my opinion, run economically. I would like to point out that the railway plays a de minimis role in the transport of people and goods in Norway. The costs of railway operations and investments, a total of SEK 4.9 billion, are very high taking into account that the railway only performs approx. 4.2 pst. of passenger transport in Norway and only approx. 9.2 pst. of the carriage of goods. The fact that the NSB has now separated the road from its own company, the Railway Agency, sees the Progress Party as positive, thereby creating competition in rail transport. I would like to point out that the high investment costs of the railway have a very marginal impact on accessibility, capacity and the environment. Such impacts are significantly increased by investments in more environmentally friendly roadside measures, both for bus and car use. The Progress Party is based on the fact that in the future, car and road traffic will also play a dominant role in Norwegian transport. The Progress Party has difficulty in seeing how the Government intends to redeploy by reducing car use and giving priority to public transport in this budget. In fact, the investment rate in the main road network has been reduced, but some alternative transport services are not proposed. The result will be a clean cut budget without any tools to solve the problems in Norwegian commerce.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e863	Several have indicated that the transport sector is very important for us to continue to have a solid business life, and I want to add good housing and contact with each other, no matter where we live in the country. For this reason, it is also important to ensure the most comprehensive regional air route network, with good communication also within the regions. It is the Ministry that is responsible for granting a concession when air routes are offered. The working party and SV consider it critical that, for some route areas, a reduced standard is opened unless non-pressurised aeroplanes on certain routes. The Minister for Transport should carefully consider who is being granted a concession. The Committee has its own comment on the air traffic controller situation in Norway. I would like to stress the department's responsibility for the lack of trained air traffic controllers. This must be taken seriously by the department. This concerns the safety of air passengers and the health situation of employees. I do not know whether the Minister of Transport and the Directorate of Road Transport are concerned with preventive youth work, but I believe in prevention, it is both good and cheap, and it is an investment for the future. This is most true when we talk about road safety work, not least in the case of young people. Attitude-building work is necessary. Safe Traffic is doing a great job. I would also like to pay tribute to the National Association of Car Importers, which has launched a campaign, “Bilist 2000”, which targets the drivers and makes all of us responsible for driving – behind the steering wheel. In addition, of course, the development of walking and cycling paths is necessary to protect vulnerable road users, not least our very least. Today, when we read in the Newspaper that children alone are most vulnerable to traffic accidents, and that drivers give way to sheep, this is cause for concern. The latest reports on tragic accidents in practice should prompt the Council of State to evaluate driving training as soon as possible. It is important to grab hold of future drivers. Some seem to live in the error that the car is a type of enemy. For us in District Norway, the car is a friend and should be treated with respect. It is a truth without modification that the car contributes with fees to the community. In this respect, it is necessary to give the car good accessibility with good road standard. Now the Council of State is not here, but I see that the Minister of Fisheries is here. I expect them to talk to each other in the government, so I will send a request that the Council of State assess the sections that are the most accident-related. And I would like to propose that the E6 through Hedmark be a test project to improve the road standard with separate lanes with slightly less road width than normal motorways. It is well worth launching a test project so that accidents involving cars in the opposite lane can be avoided. For the Workers' Party, it is important that everything is tried, because traffic accidents are primarily a tragedy for those affected, family and close friends, but it is also a major social problem. In this connection, I will strike a blow for more control along our roads. More visible police are absolutely necessary. The goal cannot be a general reduction in speed limits, but it is primarily a matter of checking that the drivers keep the speed limit we have. The UP needs to be strengthened. And the Council of State, together with the Minister of Justice, should sit down and assess whether it is not possible to transfer any of UP's work tasks, for example. allow roadside environmental controls to be transferred to traffic control. In this way, the UP can be released to what should be the main tasks of the UP. I noticed that the State Council felt it was a trifle that the government parties, together with the Workers' Party, have been added to funds for road projects, for highways and county roads. If this is perceived as a trifle, I actually think that the Council of State should have taken credit for it itself by adding to its own budget. We all know that it's hard to add to a budget that's tight enough already, but it's at least a step in the right direction, and it should actually have taken the Council of State in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e882	We are constantly confirming the importance of transport investment in a district policy perspective. But the budgetary agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre of course places the decisive limit on today's position. The agreement is 100 million. Of course, when the government budget was such a depressing starting point, spending on increased road investment is becoming far too daunting. Therefore, the road sector in the setting is characterized to a large extent by beautiful words rather than strong numbers. One of the honors is racial protection. The majority, except for the government, point out that the notified racial protection plan does not contain 2 billion for racial protection at all. On the other hand, it relates to the racial protection element to the projects that together account for the above 2 billion. It's going to be something completely different. For good reason, questions may be asked about the separation of racial protection as a separate item, precisely because, in the planning and development of road facilities, it is possible not to carry out racial protection measures precisely pending such means. This may, in effect, threaten safety and it may also impede rational plant operation. It is particularly comfortable to represent Right in Sogn and Fjordane in relation to veggies. Although the second party verbally has extra care for the roads in my county, there is no one else who in numbers shows our willingness to grant money to a district party like mine. This applies both in the principal proposals of the various parties and in the proposals for the framework position. Right comes in minority when we want to allocate 20 million. kr to E16 in Lærdal, so that it can be reached within a reasonable time after the world's longest tunnel opens in 2001. If you want to enjoy the tunnel, the road must be adapted to the need for prosperity, otherwise the tunnel money is partly for dead capital to count. Here it has to follow up. A special facility mentioned in the setting is the tunnel through the City. This is an intriguing facility with high attention in the population of the country. This, of course, also affects the behaviour of the politicians. During the last year’s treatment of the transport budget, it could easily become a majority in order to oblige the Council of State to use available resources for the project for the ship’s tunnel in the current year. The Progress Party was at last outside with its own proposal for private planning, there was no unambiguous majority, and little has happened. This year, we hear that the Progress Party will grant without a finished plan, the Centre will use the entire year 2000 for the project, while a majority sees the need to get the most ready to deal with the national transport plan. It is therefore necessary to clarify the implications of such a majority opinion and how the Council of State will deal with it. It should be possible to provide key information for the treatment of the national transport plan. After all, it is not just a 2 km tunnel that could revolutionise the fairway situation in the North West. In reality, the transport plan will be less valuable for the part of the country without the discussion of the City Ship Tunnel. Finally, the fact that the right now does not support the billion project in Bjørvika needs to be seen in the context of the reduced framework for road investment provided by the Centre and the Workers' Party. It is very worrying from a district point of view that urban development in Oslo should make such a contribution to the transport budget. It is alarming that district representatives such as Schjøtt-Pedersen and certainly also Kjell Opseth are in favour of this. It must also appear to be a certain problem for Inge Myrvoll, who has taken an active part in this debate earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e901	For us who live along the coast, the sea is an important trail, and a road that we want to travel safely. The coast is highway No. 1 for all coastal traffic. Every day – 365 days a year – thousands of people travel by speedboats and our coastal boats. For many, this is the only means of communication between the different districts. New times require faster and larger boats. But the lease where the boats are running has not been upgraded according to this. In these days, there are many who ask whether security is good enough, and too many people will answer their question no. In addition to the fact that the sea is the highway for coastal traffic, he is a recreational area for very many recreational boats, and the traffic is large and often dangerous both for boats and people traveling there. The government has defined a main target for the service. It is that there should be no accident or accident which could lead to a failure of the fire and tag service or a lack of navigational alert. This is a goal that all of us can naturally share. The Minister for Fisheries then writes in the budget proposal: ‘In the case of fixed marks, lamps and first-time markings, the Coastal Works has continued to lag behind the maintenance...’. The majority asked at the last budget management that a review of the quality of the lighthouse should be carried out. The work ended in May this year, and shows that there is still a high maintenance requirement for many of the fixed installations in the lighthouse. Storing has not been given any cause concerning this work. I point out that in the budget setting of last year, too, the following were mentioned: ‘Similarly, parts of the coastal marking system are in severe decline’.» This is very serious. Now there has to be an end to distribution. The situation is well known, and the repair work must be started immediately. After we had an accident with a speedboat in Sogn in l991, the Transport Committee said that the lease through Yellow in Sogn and Fjordane was a natural place to start when the Stortinge decided to put out special means of action to improve the safety of sailing in the speedboat. This work has been done. The distance is marked with the 'gate lights' which are adapted to the speedboats. We've had a new tragic accident, "Sleipner" that just went down outside of Bømlo. When the Stortinget tonight increases the bet on the lighthouse and the marking services, we led from the Workers' Party's side that the Council of State prioritizes to secure the lead where the speedboats are going. One can never be sure that there is no accident both at sea and at land. But from Stortinget's side, we can give priority to security. I have therefore argued that the Council of State is now taking this responsibility and will come back with proposals for the necessary measures to ensure the quality and security of the brand and service. This must happen soon. When it comes to roads, it is clear that there are many important priorities in this area. It's also clear that for Hordaland, who needs so much of a way for our business to have a cost that compares to other areas, there's a lot to pick up. But in a situation where we've prioritised things other than that, it's clear that it won't be the big sums of road or new activities this year. Therefore, I am pleased that this agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre Party led to something more for national roads, that there was something more for county roads, and I am glad that one completes, at least brings on, the projects that you have started – not taking on new, big projects, but implementing those that are already in progress. It means specifically for Hordaland that one gives more to the Folgefonntunnel, that one gets more done on the Triangle Connection, and also that one says that the State should contribute more when it applies to the public transport to Sandsli from Bergen, which is the route that is currently the most heavily charged.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e933	The objective is to facilitate the framework conditions for maritime transport in order to avoid damage to people, the environment, ships and cargo. There is a risk associated with all movement at sea, not only for individual ships and those on board themselves, but also for other maritime traffic in the area, and for the surrounding environment. The consequences of any marine casualty will depend on several factors, such as ship size, cargo, number of persons on board – and the vulnerability of the surrounding environment, as mentioned. In this context, I must also mention the accident with M/S «Sleipner». It is necessary to await the Commission's report before going into a discussion of what can and should be done to prevent this type of accident in the future. In the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party, 15 million were proposed. kr to strengthen the fireworks service, including 5 mill. kr. for initial investments, which may be used to set up new navigation lights in the quick-boot ladder. An additional priority for lighthouses and brands will be considered in the context of the revised national budget 2000 and the 2001 State budget. In recent years, when the Government has chosen to prioritise maintenance rather than initial investment, it has been based on maintaining the safety of operation and the quality of the approximately 4000 fireworks and the 13500 brands it has along the coast today. It is essential for shipping to be able to rely on the functioning of the already established lamps and marks as intended. As regards the level of safety of lighters and markers, I would also like to point out that there has been a review of the maintenance situation of the fireworks service, as requested by the Committee in its recommendation to St. pp. No 1 for this year. The review has shown that there is still a high maintenance need for the many fixed installations in the fireworks service. However, the maintenance situation of the liquid marks is considered to be good. An overall plan for the four transport sectors road, air, rail and sea will be presented in 2000. National transport plan will be important in order to see the four transport sectors more closely than in the past. Seaborne transport depends on good means of connection between modes of transport, as the end station for goods carried on the keel is rarely located in the port. Ports will therefore be included in the plan as important hubs requiring both maritime and land-based connectivity. The follow-up to the Coastal Commission report, NOU 1999:5 The new Coastal Agency, will be a priority task in the future. In this work, we will look at how the future organisation and form of association should be in order to carry out the tasks of the Coastal Agency in the best possible way. I will present the matter to Storting in an appropriate manner as soon as possible. The report of the Oslo Earth Committee is now being consulted, with a deadline for consultation on 17 December. In the light of the hearing opinions, the Ministry of Fisheries will assess the further dialogue with the municipalities concerned on a future port structure for the region. I am aware of the importance of clarifying these issues for the whole of transport planning, and therefore I am counting on this work to be carried out as soon as possible. However, it is doubtful whether the case can be finalised within the national transport plan. The government wanted to invest in fishing ports, and the draft budget increased port service appropriations by 10 million. kr in relation to the 1999 budget originally adopted. In the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party, the port service increased by another 5 million. kr, and in addition, an undertaking authorisation of 20 million has been proposed. kr. For the treatment of St. Announcement. No 46 for 1996-97, Ports and infrastructure for maritime transport, the majority joined a planning framework for port services for the period 1998-2001 of 854 million. kr. With a similar economic framework in 2001 as in 2000, the planning framework will be reached in 2001. As regards the evaluation of the projects to be carried out, the priorities of the county councils are emphasised. However, the date of implementation of the projects in question needs to be adapted to the rational use of the equipment of the Coastal Works. In addition, an enterprise price is used where it is rational. Coastal planning competence has been strengthened in recent years in order to maximise the planning, evaluation and implementation of the projects concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e954	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e957	The councils came in a little short time; he might have time to answer a few short questions that I intend to ask. The first is how the Council of State considers the possibility of prioritising the maintenance of 84 protective lighthouses and five mists – what it is now. The money to compete for, among others. used for markings, lights in the lamps, etc. – that is what we are all concerned with: safety at sea. The second question also concerns something within the Council of State, but I could have thought that he had said something more about it. As I said, the condition report that Stortinget called for about fire and marking is complete. Why hasn't the state council submitted the result to Stortinget, as Stortinget asked for?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e966	To the last one, it is probably not right to say that the state report is fully complete. What we have seen from the ministry as necessary in relation to the situation we have in the fireworks and branding service is that a message should be provided to the Stortinget, which addresses all the problems and challenges that lie within the area, not least what should be done with the entire building mass associated with the many principalities – 110 in total, 79 of which are automated. It's probably primarily within the building mass that you have the major maintenance cost challenges. So the question will be how important it is for the safety of navigation on the coast and the work to be carried out by the lighthouse, that the building mass is still intact. There may be a lot of applications here, for example: sales to non-profit institutions serving households and to municipalities, which have already started some work, and who should be responsible for the protective parts of the building mass. It's really a lot of work, but we're assuming that during the spring session next year we might be able to present a four-way message that addresses all of the challenges and tasks that lie in that work today. In the case of lack of maintenance, nothing has occurred within a short period of time. It's a aftermath over many years. Personally, as the Council of State, I first became aware of the situation in connection with the work on the budget for this year, when the Coastal Agency presented the situation to the Ministry. We found it right to give the announcement to the Stortinget that was included in the budget, so that the Stortinget became aware of it. It's a shame, but we haven't actually been able to prioritize so that we have been able to take a strong step in the follow-up to maintenance in all areas. But we believe that security is ensured by the maintenance work that is prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e973	State Council Angelsen is concerned with maritime safety and what can be done. There is a lot that can be done with simple means, for example. radar reflectors on blades near fairway. Boats with foamy, watertight bulkheads might also be an idea. The city has always been — and is — one of Norway’s most difficult areas at sea, such as: due to external bottom conditions. Plans have long been in place for a tunnel through Stadland, which will significantly improve safety for small-scale shipping. It has been investigated side up and down for many years, and the Progress Party believes that it is now time to act. The tunnel won't be that long. If I don't remember correctly, it's going to be 1.9 kilometers. We've wanted to start off by going over our budget 20 million. kr on cap. 1064 heading 33. The people on the coast aren't asking if it's going to be built, but when. Can the Councils answer that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e982	It's true that we have a coast for which it's very complicated to make safe navigation coverage, there's a lot of conditions that need to be taken care of – and that's been taken care of. We believe that we mainly have a coast that is very well noted for general shipping, but the challenges are, of course, completely different for the speedboats, which unfortunately we have experienced, with a tragic result. In the case of Stad Sjöstunnel, an investigation has been initiated in which the counties Sogn and Fjordane and Møre and Romsdal, together with the Coastal Authority, go through the previous investigation material to see whether it is satisfactory as a basis for creating a project for the construction of the tunnel. The group presented the recommendation for the department which concluded that the investigation that had been carried out was insufficient and suggested that a major investigation project be carried out. The Ministry has proposed that it can be launched and implemented in the next year. It is estimated that approx. Eight million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e990	On the right, a slightly greater effort is needed in the port sector than the budget to which it refers. During a five-year period, the Court’s proposal could give this sector approximately. One hundred million. kr extra, which will go to projects that wound waiting in a long queue. I see that the government parties and the Workers' Party have embarked on a somewhat lower ambition framework and are now also choosing to use a so-called commitment mandate instead of fresh money. My question to the Council of State is: Does the commitment authority mean that projects can be prioritised in addition to this mandate in the year 2000? Furthermore, I assume that the Council of State has taken note of the majority comments that the Right and Labour Party have together on Vadsø port. Will the Council of State ensure that dredging work in the port of Vadsø can start next year? And finally, why has Angelsen accepted a cut in the budget for the 6 million rescue company. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1004	Clearly, there is a significant need for investment in the port sector to update both the traffic and fishing ports in relation to the traffic involved. We have had an increase over the last two years in the port sector, which I believe has been satisfactory, and which has helped to overcome a number of problems related to the failure to make rapid improvements to bottlenecks in ports. If the country's appropriations are to be used in a rational and efficient way, it is necessary to have a proper plan behind the work to be done. The development of ports is very complicated in some cases. We have now focused on strengthening the planning capacity of the Coastal Works, so that we can get a better basis for making improvements and avoid both accidents and exceedances, which unfortunately have been very common in such developments. I think it is right to go the path that has been found in the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party, where a step-by-step increase in appropriations is being made. That, I think, will give the best result of the funds that are granted. In the case of Vadsø Hafen, I do not have an overview of how it is compared to the plans made by the Swedish Coast Guard Agency for investments for next year. We're going to take it up with the Coastal Works to see what opportunities there are. However, I would like to ask that the Coastal Administration at least admit that it must implement its plans in a longer time perspective, so that they can be integrated into the use of civil engineering equipment and personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1015	Let me first correct a manifest misunderstanding with the representative of Kristiansen. It is enough that the Labour Party, for its part, at least assumes that it will achieve the objectives set out in the port communication and, to the extent that it is possible to join it in the Stortinget, there will be significant increases. We've previously stated that we saw an increase of 50 million. kr to ports, fairways, lighthouses and marks in the 2000 budget and an additional 50 million. kr in the 2001 budget. It's going to be a slightly larger amount than the 100 million. kr as Kristiansen here pointed out over a five-year period. We've come a long way through an increase of 40 million. I think that a total increase is very well satisfied with that. So I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that, from the point of view of the majority of the Committee on Budgets, we require, in particular, reference to the situation with regard to lighthouses and landmarks, that the 2001 budget proposal promotes the necessary proposals to achieve the targets drawn up in the port communication in spring 1997, and we also ask the Government to consider a follow-up to the revised budget. One of the port issues is that it is a priority issue. For this reason, I would like to point out that, in today's vote, the Committee has underlined the importance of assessing all the projects concerned with State funding in relation to the overall County Plan for Ports of Fisheries and in relation to a county priority. I assume that the Ministry is using a more well-developed prioritized tool, so that the county councils get a greater impact on the priorities you do, and so that you don't get it -- let's call it -- randomness for priorities that we might have had on this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1024	The last thing the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen had in mind, with the priority, is probably the most important thing to achieve a rational development and a rational exploitation of the equipment and personnel of the Coastal Plant. I was there when the Stortinget dealt with this – I don't remember which year it was, but it's been a few years. The case was then submitted to the Stortinget from the Labour Party Government, and there were new priority systems to get to the important selections. It was then that the port projects were to be included in the county plans, and each revision of the county plan – each wish from the county to change the priorities it set up – was to be notified in such a timely manner that the Coastal Administration could then lay down its plans. Now it has not been implemented in such a way. The counties have not managed their plans to a large extent, and especially the Nordic states have not realised – as we discovered last year – that this was the case. So it's only now that Nordic states have begun to create their priority lists within the county plan. I agree that this needs to be properly implemented, so that the states take responsibility for the priority, that it should not just be on government and magnification, which perhaps both have some difficulty in being able to take the responsibility that the county should have insight into.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1029	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1032	Last week, the Stortinget debated a proposal from the Progress Party on more competition in the rail sector. In the debate, where the Progress Party appeared to be strong railway supporters, I challenged the Progress Party that in the budgetary position of the Committee on Transport they had the opportunity to show whether this was really a genuine commitment to the railways. When true, I guess not many of us had believed that the Progress Party had something special to do with the railway. Nevertheless, none of us could have believed that the Progress Party had set up such a sharp decline in the railways as the budgetary position now shows. Here the Progress Party goes in to cut about SEK 1.3 billion on the railway – 700 million. SEK on the budget of the Railway Agency and SEK 580 million. So I'm going to charge for the transfers to NSB BA, so I'm going to cut 580 out of 987 million. kr, close to 60 pst. There had not been much railway left with the railway policy of the Progress Party. Many times in the past, I have from this pulpit pointed out all the positive things that are now happening on the railways. The first proof of the ‘new NSB’ was received on 22 August when the flight train was put into normal operation. The second proof came a few months later, when the new incubator, NSB Signature, was put into operation on the Sørlandsbanen. In the new year, similar trains arrive at the Dovrebanen, and until the next autumn Bergensbanen will also have the same new train. In addition, the next year new trains will arrive at the Rørosbanen, Raumabanen and Nordlandsbanen, and new local trains will also be used. In addition, there will probably be several new intercity trains. So it's about modernizing the railway and getting more people to drive trains, if they want to. Next year, the State budget will provide for the operation and maintenance of the rail network, while the funds for new investments will decrease slightly. Still, there's found room for 500 million. kr for investments to facilitate the new incubation train. In addition, important sections of the new double tracks on the Vestfoldbahnen and Østfoldbanen will be completed next year. I mentioned the 500 million. kr to be used to facilitate tilting trains. With this amount, we'll totally pass well and we'll pay NOK 1 billion for banknote investments. There is reason to remember that there is still a large amount to get into the 1.6 billion kroner the size has promised in the past. The remaining amount must be granted for the year 2001. During the last year's budgetary procedure, Stortinget welcomed the work of modernising the link between Oslo and Stockholm. The Ministry was ordered to help put this in place. I am therefore pleased that the Stortinget now gives a clear signal that the NSB can advance 70 million. kr as a starting point for the upgrading required on the Kongswingerbahn. At the same time, I want to praise municipalities and county councils who have set up to put this in place. It is important that we do not stop the work that is now being started. Now we have to get the project in place, so that the plans for tilting trains between Oslo and Stockholm can be realized. Since the opening of Rome on 22 August, the usual NSB trains have also been running through Rome. At the same time, travellers received significantly more expensive tickets, because these trains should also be involved in paying off the debts to the NSB Gardermobanen AS. So far, everything can work well, especially since travellers on these trains were promised significantly shorter travel time. The problem is that many of them have not had a shorter travel time, so the ticket price has been increased. This is not sustainable, and many people now pay for an offer they do not receive. I am therefore pleased that the bulk of the population now decides that the system of more expensive tickets for those who have not received improved offers should be changed. This is a sweetheart gift package for many desperate commuters who now pay for a product they don't get. Equally important is that this is also used as a principle in the work of the Ministry of Transport now to take place before the Stortinget next year is to determine the final framework conditions for the NSB Gardermobanen AS. But we're not taking that debate tonight. We're waiting for that for a few months.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1051	Despite the fact that bystanders pay NOK 30 billion to the state treasury in this country, only NOK 10 billion goes for road use. This is a misunderstanding that seems to be the situation as long as the Progress Party does not have sole government responsibility. There is still a policy that has the criterion of adding investment to areas where there are the most trees possible, and not where people live and travel the most. But this is what needs to be called district policy in practice. The Progress Party follows up the promises made in its time in Norwegian Road and Road Road Plan 1998-2007. For Eastfold, but also for Norway, there are two important tribal viruses entering and leaving Europe, namely E6 from Svinesund to Oslo and E18 from Ørje to Oslo. It does not appear that the budget members of the Labour Party and the Centre parties have come to understand the importance of these two sections, for example, of the export industry, in particular, but also of the tourism industry, which is relevant to the whole country, including the districts. The bottlenecks through Østfold are a shame chapter, and if you have enough will to look over to the brothers, you quickly record an expansion of the tribal road system that can take the breath from a worn Norwegian taxpayer on a visit to Sweden. By self-esteem, those who have signed with great admiration have observed the zeal of the Swedes in the development of the last stretch from Uddevalla to the Swedish border on Svinesund to the four-field motorway with 110 km of speed limit, a distance from Copenhagen to the borders of Norway. The Swedish have understood the importance of the infrastructure on the road side, without paying extra taxes from their country's taxpayers. There are no bombings, nor toll financing by «sweet brother», which is probably because they are not an oil nation, or because they do not define themselves as one of the richest countries in the world. The solution in Norway appears to be becoming toll financing schemes, either in Eastfold or in other parts of central Europe. For the Progress Party, we are concerned about the lack of road safety on E6 through Østfold, where there are hopelessly exposed road sections with only two-field highways standard large sections of the main road. Parts of the road have got a little forward-looking solutions, like two plus one field. The Progress Party believes that E6 must be extended to the four-field road from Svinesund to Minnesund. The exception is the route from Winter Bridge, through Oslo to Hylm, which should have six horizontal fields. E6 in Eastfold has taken 47 lives of 11 years from 1988 to 1998. All 22 of the fatal accidents were due to front-end collisions. Traffic fatalities are primarily about human tragedies. The victims are often innocent, and the relatives are struck unexpectedly and brutally. The Transport Economic Institute is based on foreign studies on the cost of a fatal accident and a fatal accident costs 18.8 million. where it is assumed that all labour productivity, medical costs, material costs, insurance costs, police and other administrative activities will lapse. In addition, there will also be other factors, such as the loss of well-being and the loss of quality of life for the survivors. The whole thing has to be an expression of how much society is willing to pay by investing to avoid accidents. These are moments that are most often forgotten when discussing adequate improvements on our roads. And despite the fact that many parts of the Norwegian population need the most, the political majority discusses other solutions that the country needs less – as we also received a very good example from the Myrlis representative.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1064	I am pleased that the Workers' Party and the Government's parties were able to achieve a budgetary settlement such as, among other things, has resulted in a strengthening of the transport sector. Good transport solutions are a prerequisite for value creation and housing in the districts. I am particularly pleased that there was an increase in the road budget, and that some of this is earmarked for repairing the county roads. I am also pleased that in the budget agreement there is an increase in the pace of the renewal of the ferry. Many viable rural communities in our country have a high potential for increased value creation and jobs, but these developments are often hampered by inadequate transport services. In my own state, Troms, I have many examples of that being the case. Although much has happened in the road sector in recent years, much remains to be done. In particular, I would like to mention the county roads, which in several states are in a very poor constitution. Often the roads are narrow, the carrying capacity is poor, there is a lot of solid cover, and in parts of the year more of the roads are almost unproductive because they have gone completely in disintegration and look more like a potato field than on a road. When the county road standard is poor, there are major problems and increased costs for business. The dimensions of the transport equipment of the land host are currently so large and heavy that high standards of carrying capacity must be imposed on the roads where these vehicles are to be operated. Where the permitted axle load is too low on a part of the road network, this must result in transhipments. This, in turn, leads to increased costs and delays in goods entering the market. Transhipments and delays may also lead to a rapid deterioration in product quality. This is a well-known issue that I often encounter in conversations with business people and others in the districts. Even in the case of the ferry, the problems are great because the old ferries do not have a capacity that is related to the heavy traffic and traffic volume of the day. For example, I want to do this. mention the ferry dependent municipality of Bjarkøy in Troms, where two ferries have to be taken to reach the regional centre and where the ferry traffic is today such that one trailer is a maximum load. This means that if a trailer with a load is to be with the ferry, the rest of the cars must remain. Everyone understands that this cannot be the case in the future if these districts are to experience development. In such a situation, no one should wonder why it is not invested in business and why relocation takes place. The framework conditions for creating a positive development are short and well not in place when the situation is such. Ferry-dependent areas also often struggle with a route offer that is far too poor to meet today’s requirements, but due to the weak economy of county municipalities, this does not seem to be possible with the first for county relations. Personally, I believe that it is necessary to invest in the establishment of continental connections where, after an overall assessment, this is the most economically correct, and that material and route services in the other links need to be strengthened in the time to come. Ferra is part of the road too many and must therefore make acceptable offers. I hope that the extra bet that lies in this budget agreement is just the beginning of a movement effort that can give a significant boost to transport also in District Norway in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1087	It's amazing how some politicians behave in today's debate on transport. I have followed with great interest in how someone runs from previous promises to the voters, and they do so with the greatest rudeness and of course. So it's not so strange that the turnout is falling, and I'm afraid that there will be worse with today's many curvatures remaining. Is there absolutely no one in the Right Christian People's Party or the Center Party who thinks it is important to hold fast to previous promises regarding Bjørvika? I am happy that I myself belong to a party that is upright and takes responsibility and holds promises to the voters. I'm glad I'm a member of a party that doesn't conduct populism and rhetoric, but it's a practical policy and is concerned with good solutions. It's not a moment too early to bet most on the way in which it lives the most people. There are almost 100000 vehicles per. day in the Bjørvika area today. I am, on behalf of the most populated area in the country, very happy that there is a majority following up previous decisions on the Bjørvika Tunnel. It is an important project that has been on Oslo's list of important projects. I understand from today's debate that even in the Right, you don't even care that City Councillor Fritz Huitfeldt indicates that the plot values in Bjørvika will increase by around NOK 1 billion, and that this money can go into the funding base. The municipality of Oslo has already committed 150 million. kr on the table. Suspension of the Slottspark tunnel releases 400 million. kr, and toll financing is added. As I said in my contribution to the financial debate, the Bjørvika Tunnel is a transport project that was wanted long before the decision to build a new opera house in Bjørvika. Do these parties really mean that the opera is supposed to be in a traffic machine? It's not just stupidity. It's madness. The framework for parliamentary expression can sometimes become too narrow in characterising the truth. If we remember the debate on the opera, it was incredibly important to build it as soon as possible. Yes, many selected location exactly from the time perspective. But then you weren't satisfied with the decision that was made, and you don't want to be on the road anymore. It's pathetic behavior. It is a betrayal of trust in voters that only weakens the political reputation. That the same bourgeois alliance has gone against the Bjørvika Tunnel in Akershus County, I take as an invitation to a petty neighboring crane, especially when you see it in the light of decisions in the Municipality of Oslo. But fortunately, we in the Workers' Party are not participants in such a neighboring clan. It's not so strange that many people expect these parties to have to take a walk in the chamber if they're even going to see Oslo voters and opera lovers in their eyes. It would be fun to be flying on the wall when the committee leader is called in on the carpet of his party traps in the capital. The most important thing is that the last word has not yet been said, and in the Workers' Party we take it as a matter of course that the Council of State follows the majority of the population. The Capital Region is very well spent in this year's budget. Then I think in particular of the remarks about Oslopackak 1 and Oslopackak 2. The fact that we can finally see light at the end of the T-banning is also a very important matter for the people of Oslo. But, as I said, how some people have behaved here today is a struggle of political credibility and should have been sent in weekly re-prices on all channels until the next major elections – but this is not because the press lodge is on Christmas table.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1108	The President would point out that the representative is moving dangerously near the border of parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1112	If any of the representatives of Husøy expressed here, are representative of the social status of the Norwegian Workers' Party, I think more than me have reason to be alarmed and seriously concerned. Otherwise, I don't think it's just the framework for the use of unparliamentary expressions that might seem intrusive in this context. There are probably several other areas that there might be reason to point out. But you can't get from this pulpit to say what the representative Husøy is doing now, without having taken the trouble to look at the path the rate of development in the transport appropriations in Norway has gone. It goes down, and what happens – and it’s a dramatic pace too – is that you finance these projects that the representative Husøy is involved in, by collecting money from District Norway. I think it must be a very long time since this representative has been in contact with any area other than what must be the Oslo Centre and the asphalt area around Karl Johan. I think that if you present this to your co-representatives and members of the Norwegian Workers' Party who sit out in the country and who are concerned about these questions every day, you might get a slightly different answer. You'll get a more nuanced view, not only of how value creation takes place in this country, but also of the need for export from these areas, which are the most export-oriented we have in this country. The perception and understanding of where values are created in this country is indeed bad. There is no question that concerns people in District Norway more than the conditions that the representative Husøy unfortunately managed to turn so completely on his head in this context. If you take the trouble to travel around and talk about opera, about the need for subsidies, etc., you will get a slightly different answer than what you do to shout for here. Don't talk about credibility in these questions! It is almost unheard of to be allowed to listen to such posts from the Stockholm pulpit. I believe that the head of the Committee on Transport should be able to allow himself to go very upright, whether it is down Stortingsgate to the City Hall, or where it might be around in this country. If a little more support and attention had been given by the representative Husøy party, there could have been room for both the one and the other project that has been intrusive in this country – probably about it. I want to point to the Right's commitment to social policy. This is because it is an active enterprise policy. Most of the resources used in the field of industrial policy are used for transport, and this is what is required. I would also like to make two comments about our commitment to fishing ports. No matter what the representative Schjött-Pedersen may think about it, our proposals are slightly larger than what comes from the government parties and the Workers' Party. I assume – and will repeat what I said to the Minister for Fisheries – that the project will be launched in Vadsø port, because this is also a very good industrial policy and will provide the basis for much greater activity in a fisheries policy area than is the case today. Then I have to be allowed to say a couple of sentences about the quick way. I am very pleased with the agreement with the fast-track companies. But unfortunately, in my opinion and in my view, it has a little too short a time horizon. A five-year agreement is too short. I assume that this issue will be addressed and discussed in the national transport plan. In addition, I must be allowed to add that it is bad to register and quite amazing that the fast bus companies are not very good at coordinating and cooperating on their market actions. Here, companies need to tighten up and to cooperate and play more closely with the Norwegian Tourist Council in international activity. In the end, I just have to say that the representative Inge Myrvoll's lyrical outcome fell quite brutally to the ground as he also fell on Bjørvika.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1131	The President recalls that all speeches should be addressed to the President and not directly to individual representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1134	«The post is scheduled for Christmas, Mrs. Pigalopp», is a children's book I have read. Sense if not the huge social debate around the Post is going on now – not even in the Stortinget – it is nevertheless the task of the Stortingen to follow in the development of the Post. We receive from time to time some alarming signals that the post-transmission out in District Norway is significantly reduced. Examples tell us that people have got up to 7 km to pick up their mail. The last example I have received is from Nærøy, where the postal recipients should have been given the choice between three days' postal accommodation or to pick up the post office 7 km from the place of residence. From the Labour Party we ask ourselves whether this is a desirable development, and whether there is a sufficient offer for the population out in District Norway – this is seen in the light of the intentions of the Stortinget when the Post was transformed into BA. Also in the new concession terms of the Post there is a requirement for the Post to provide a comprehensive supply of postal services to households and businesses throughout the country. Services must be provided at good quality and reasonable prices. Postal consignments shall be delivered to the place of residence of the consignee. This requirement applies in the absence of exceptional circumstances or geographical circumstances. I expect the Council of State has noticed that a Joint Committee on Transport is concerned that this exemption clause in the concession will not be interpreted strictly enough, and has therefore found reason to mention this in particular in its budgetary observations. Over large parts of the country, subscribers receive their newspapers through the post office. There's no other distribution apparatus, and it's probably never going to be. That is why we in the Committee on Transport are united in the view that an additional portfolio increase will have a major economic impact on the small local authorities and on newspapers that are nationwide. The working party is of the opinion that the delivery of newspapers has great social value, and we believe that the cost of distributing newspapers in the districts must take this into account. It is a strength that the majority of the committee shares this view, and I believe that the Council of State has registered who is behind this majority comment in the vote. Someone would probably think that this is interfering with the Post Office's internal affairs. However, it is a fact that many newspapers are in the process of breaking their economy at postage tariffs. It is of social importance that we have a multiplicity of local press that reflects society also in the local environment. I don't think we're going to miss the reality that more post offices are being laid down. We are all consciously or unconsciously involved in creating this development by increasing the number of our visits to the post offices. The entry is only one of the stages that are being reorganised in the country. If permanent forms of cooperation are to be established in order to obtain public service offices, this must be done now before further reorganisation has taken place in the departments. And key guidelines for this should be developed. The Labour Party and I are pleased that the majority in this room share the view that such a solution can help the post offices expand their activities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1157	As an introduction, I need to say that I am satisfied with the additions to the Coastal Administration chapter of 60 million. kr following the budgetary agreement. There has been a much higher degree of intensification of the framework underpinning this four-year period. Nevertheless, I am concerned that things take so long. The decision-making process is often known as decision-making more often than the opposite: decision on the City of the Ship Tunnel, decision on the future organisation of the Coast Guard Agency and action on more than adjustments within the Losvesene – I could find many examples. We all have to be better at taking the political grips that are not always the same pop lessons, but still necessary. The Labour Party, in its comments, has been the proponent for decisions to be taken. There are many tasks before the Coastal Plant's area that should have been resolved before we are going to deal with the National Transport Plan. In the last year's budget proposal, the Government wrote about the severe decay of fires and markings. It was and is still serious. The working party is of the opinion that resources within the Coastal Agency must increase access to more planning. The lack of such clarification must be eliminated in order to rationally use budgeted funds. The working party believes that the resources that are before the Coastal Works must be used far more strongly than they are today. With all the unsolved tasks we have on dredging, marking and maintenance, it is absolutely reprehensible that ships are put in storage and added on idle time while planes are missing. Then future guides to the fast panel are a much brighter reading. The working party is included in the multi-annual comment on the take-off, operation and route patterns of the fast route even after the current agreement expires in 2001. The majority agree that a contract for the purchase of transport services for the route between Bergen and Kirkenes will be continued for the next five years. The momentum is limited to 170 million. kr. The majority authorises the Government to negotiate this. Nevertheless, I find reason to clarify what the Labour Party has meant and said before and also has as its primary wish in the matter, and which we have as a special comment, together with SV, in the budgetary position of the year: ‘1. The State buys services from Hurtigruten so that it can continue daily sailing throughout the year on the whole route Bergen-Kirkenes even after 2002. It is assumed that State authorities which today define and approve the model of the fast route of navigation and arrival. 2nd@item: inlistbox The purchase is agreed upon following negotiations between the State and the companies. The aim must be to secure the sailings referred to in paragraph 1 for a period of at least 20 years with the right and ability of the State to continue a limited right of purchase and management thereafter. It is assumed that spaces are provided for the replacement of the two oldest ships so that operations can be continued by at least 11 ships.» If it was not possible to reach a more long-term agreement, there should at least be no doubt: this is and will be part of the Workers' Party's security. The working party wants to give this guarantee to the people of the coast, but also to those who will be operating and making the investments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1181	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1184	Traffic is an important tool for the use of the whole country, both in terms of busses and, not least, in terms of economic development. In many areas, we have come a long way to develop the road network, to invest in rail and to facilitate public transport. What is probably the biggest major problem today is the poor road standard in many places — in other words, missing roads to improve the road surface. Just in this area, I can't help noticing my own state, Telemark, a state that the state council visited a month ago, where he could self-inspect the poor road standard. It can be shown that Telemark has come all the way to the rear. Full 42 pst. of the national road network in Telemark does not have the standard that Statens vägvesen itself has seen. Telemark has received far too little funding for both investment and maintenance of the road network over several years, and measurements made show that the standard on the road surface in Telemark – and especially in District Telemark – is now the worst in the whole country. There must be little imagination to understand that the transport industry wears under such conditions. In addition, there is a direct danger to traffic. In the 1970s, Telemark laid a lot of solid cover. But it went beyond the basics. Telemark is a national centre of gravity for industrial production, value creation and renewal, and accounts for a much larger proportion of the country's export income than the population. If the state and industry are to succeed in their ambitions to further develop and strengthen potential for innovation and innovation for the benefit of Norway as an industrial nation, it is wholly dependent on having a greater share of means of transport than today's distribution. In order for the Storting to manage the National Transport Plan next year, the Storting and the State Council must take care that Telemark is in a special position. When it comes to next year's budget, this is likely to be seen as a betrayal of the voters, based on what the government has previously said and promised to commit. In the fall bids deal, 75 million more roadheads came to the highways, and it's a step in the right direction. So far, I'm satisfied that ten of these millions came to E134, because no tribal road in Norway has as bad a standard as E134, the most important all-year connection between east and west. Politics is about prioritizing. It is good rural policy, good industrial policy and good health policy to focus more on improving road standards.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1199	The size should be able to require a better offer on behalf of consumers by the NSB, at the same amount as the State and consumers currently pay. But so far, we don't know much about what we can really demand. commuters have previously filed a complaint with the Consumer Council because they have not received the goods they have paid for. They have been informed of this with regard to the delays, which NSB has had to follow. However, what we know little about is how the offer and service are related to the amount of money NSB manages. We only have experience of this when competition on the track is introduced. Monopol institutions must also be evaluated. Tenders within regular services have resulted in less subsidy needs. The State which owns and the Storting as the granting authority must be able to demand more for the money on behalf of consumers. Let me do the east line on the east fold track as an example. There has been a significant increase in the number of passengers despite many delays, poor material and cancelled trains – without informing the travellers. The service is basically on the bottom. And what could be the reason for that? The reason is tolls, heavy-duty tyres, high parking charges, on-road queues and increased petrol prices. – The State giant needs competition; the service is at the bottom. It is with amazement that I have listened to the debate on the construction of the Bjørvika tunnel, especially with regard to Mr Husøy's posts. The Workers' Party, the Advance Party and SV require the Government to launch the Bjørvika Tunnel project without increasing the scope. The Labour Party and the Advance Party also clearly have very different ways of financing the project. The Progress Party has its monopoly money, while the Workers' Party does not provide any coverage at all. And in Schjøtt-Pedersen's posts, billions were staggered in heaps. We have Oslopackakt 1 and we have Oslopackakt 2, we have Bjørvika, we've been dragging on the road capital, and we've been dragging on big projects. In addition, there's something like the Drama Package. And everything is concentrated down here in the East. But in the NRK Østfold, Schjøtt-Pedersen promises money for Phase 1 Eastfold package. He was quite clear in his statements; there was no doubt, it would be granted. And then it sounds like Schjøtt-Pedersen has his own sarep truck to take off. But unfortunately, the sareptac does not exist in the case of means of transport. And that would indicate that some projects need to be put at risk unless the framework for road investment is significantly increased. But with the experience we have from the past, we know that the Workers' Party has not exactly been a spearhead in increasing the framework for road investment. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1212	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1215	I am pleased that in the budget agreement between the Government and the Workers' Party, 25 million have been allocated. extra kr for reinforcements of the highways. And of course, I'm glad that Uppland is one of the states that's intended some of these means. I can assure you that this will come along well! But first on the wish list in Oppland is an improvement of Rv 4. Businesses in the Gjøvik, Land and Toten regions have now mobilized and require better roads. The 23 largest enterprises in this region represent 5,900 employees and a total turnover of NOK 8 billion. All these enterprises are dependent on transporting raw materials into the region and finished goods out. For the largest of these holdings, which are largely export enterprises, rapid access to the continent is essential if they are to continue producing in this region, not to say in Norway. Customers require goods delivered with limited time margins, and not a number of ferries may result in fines for late delivery. New row 4 except for the Raufoss center has first priority in Uppland. A traffic measurement a few years ago showed a traffic density through the centre of Raufoss of 12000 passenger cars per. 24 hours, but the need for repair is great all the way to Oslo. That's why many people think Rv 4 should have tribal road status. I am afraid that the other projects in Oslopacket 1 have become so expensive that there is now little left for Rv 4, therefore this package must be completed before new projects are started. So a little bit about trains on the west side of Mjösa. A lot of commuters to work with the Gjøvik Railway. In total, over 1.3 million people commute to and from Oslo per person. years. From the year and from the north, the census shows 250,000 a year. There is a great need for improvement in several areas to reduce driving time and make it more comfortable and attractive to drive trains. Between Roa and Gjøvik, remote control is needed, new extended crossing tracks, rail running upgrade and overhead line upgrade are needed. There should be better cars, preferably with an office car, to make the trip more comfortable for commuters. In addition, with time and time, there should be a connection to the Dovreban. With such improvements, far more would prefer to use the train in front of the car.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1230	It has been a little amazing to hear the Council of State's touching enthusiasm for the cooperation with the Workers' Party, about how lucky they have been who have been given increased road appropriations. I find it necessary to point out that cooperation with the Right would actually give greater road appropriations. Cooperation with the Right could lead to this government actually fulfilling its electoral commitments, for it is the majority in the Storting – if the Government will. There is a great deal of understanding that a government with a narrow parliamentary basis cannot fulfill promises for which there is no majority, but no one in this country understands why it is not possible to fulfill a promise that it is a real majority to fulfill. What happens in the road sector is that the state is taking less and less part, is taking less and less responsibility for having a decent road network, and is constantly pushing more and more of the bill over to the bombs and the motorists. We who have Europe's highest taxed drivers! They're starting to wonder where the money's going. At least they do not fall back into road investment. The government could do anything about this if it wanted to. It's just the will it's on. I am amazed that the government does not have the will to fulfill something it has actually promised and has gone to elections on. I asked a question earlier today in a reply, in which I called for the willingness to re-prioritize from the boat register to security measures along the coast. So far, 55 million have been spent. kr on the boat register for which no one has requested and no one needs it, while we have a growing lag in relation to the coastal marking. Now it is to be retrieved by cutting the rescue service. You have to build up the marking, but cut down on the emergency response. We who now have thousands of pleasure boats sailing along the coast! We have drowning accidents, we have accidents on board, and this government prioritises keeping track of the boats! People get to sail their own seas, literally, end up in the sea and stay there. That's what the Rescue Service is supposed to help prevent. The rescue services, such as: has escort service all summer, is now cut by 6 million. to return to the marking that the Government has not fulfilled its obligations to implement. I'm asking, where is the value base for the priority of this valuation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1243	In this three-minute post, I will take the budgetary impact of some projects in Buskerud. I feel there is a need for some clarifications to be adopted in the Committee. When it's about Dramamenspak, it's going to be $10 million. kr in the next year's budget. The need for money in the years to come will be enormous. But the sum that's being cleared covers the start of work on the parcel under the railway at Krefting's gate. It is likely to be completed. Expenses and unfinished plan clearances do not allow to allow larger amounts of next year's budget. It is a call to the parties to work out an agreed plan clarification to keep progress. So there's a one-way way in the Court and the follow-up to a plural decision from 1992. A co-conspirator's committee is now going in to finish this. In the village the flags went to the top when the committee had made its comments. Malurta in the beggar was just that the distance that was left had got the wrong name. We had written in the setting that the distance was called Brattåker – Rud, while the existing concept was Hansehaug – Rud. I asked the councillor to take this with us, as we still stay within the frame. With this, the Storting will have cleared away an old decision, and the villagers will have a safer school road. The Oslo Earth crossing is also a very important project. However, the routes for the Oslo region will not be sufficient until the connecting roads are in place. The members of the Committee, all without the members of the Progress Party, are united in it. Governments should contribute to the progress of these discussions. Here we talk about a toll project. I am very sorry that it was only the Swedish Labour Party and the Labour Party that would help ensure that the regional train Vögne was secured until the bank train on Bergensbanen arrived. The measure is so important for the Hallingdal region that the county is still set up. But the premise for it has always been that when the bank train arrives in the summer of 2000, the NSB has to make public purchases, as for other regional trains, if it turns out to be necessary. The working party will return to this matter in the budgetary procedure next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1259	The scheduled time for the evening meeting is soon to come. The President will propose that the meeting be extended until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1262	Priorities in road appropriations are not always as easy to become wise. It has often seemed very strange to me to see large and expensive road projects being realised in parts of the country where the dietary benefit may seem very doubtful. It shouldn't be like that anymore. In Norway, priority should now be given to roads where they are most beneficial. In this context, I would like to point out that the part of E 18, which is route 7, from Oslo to Kristiansand, is among the country's most important transport corridors. The longest stretch of this part of E18 goes through East Agder, and only about 20 pst. by the line of roads at 11 miles through East Agder meets the requirements of the standard of the main road. The year-long lack of investment in E18 in East Agder is a real scandal, and both residents, businesses and politicians from the state have long been so upset by the government's lack of will to – or we shall say an understanding of – give priority to a completely necessary expansion of E18 through East Agder. The very poor standard of E18 in Agder today also has to be blamed for the fact that the very part of E18 that goes through East Agder has the deciduousest accident-related part of the E18 stretch. Can the Minister of Transport explain the people down there in South Africa why not the Government is willing to give greater priority to precisely that part of the E18 that is probably the road project that will have the greatest cost-benefit effect across the country in terms of investing road vehicles? Here we are talking about a road that has a volume of traffic that suggests that we should build a four-field highway, and then the road is there today as a winding, narrow, curved crooked path – it is like a monument of shame over the lack of Norwegian transport policy. I must say that I am absolutely amazed that the government does not yet seem to have realised that the E18 through East-Agder is among the most important road sections in the whole country to bet on. It is totally unsustainable that the government does not seem to propose more funds to that part of the E18 in the years ahead before even more lives are unnecessarily lost due to dangerous road conditions, and the whole region is going to be in the backyard because of the lack of a proper communication year for people and businesses in Agder and also for the whole of South Africa. A whole part of the country now suffers from a disastrously poor E18, and if what is in the national transport plan remains standing for E18 in East Agder, it is a regular mess, not just by E18 in Agder, but it is a mess of a whole part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1276	A modern society is totally dependent on communication, whether it's road, rail and air or speech, sound and image. Traffic may be more important the farther out of a center you come. In East Agder there is no regular airfield, but Kristiansand Airport Kjevik is our airport and works pretty well, but the necessary investments are postponed on time, which I regret. The railway is becoming important for travellers from East Agder to Oslo. The new tiltogens that are now installed on the Sørlandsbanen have reduced travel time and increased comfort. When the number of take-offs by the tilt train increases, the railway becomes an important competitor of the aircraft and the car. What seems to be a problem is that the path body is too curved; some travelers become “seasick”. This limits the speed. New and large investments must be made, connecting the Vestfoldbahnen/Sørlandsbanen, Eidangertunnelen etc. Then the railway is future for East Agder. What is too much of East-Agder is the big issue of travel, is E18. At a distance of 10 km from the E18, 85 pst live. by the inhabitants of East Agder. What makes it necessary to have standard E18 motorways is that then a sign is given to the motor vehicle from other traffic – local traffic, bicycles, kickers, tractors and pushchairs get their own roads. Trailers and transit traffic and those in a hurry may use the motorway. It will increase road safety, and many lives will be saved. E18 in East Agder is the most accident-affected road bill in the country after the population. East-Agder County, the municipalities and the Vegkontoret have realised the reality that with the small road allocations now given over the state budget, it will be 50-60 years before E18 through the county gets motorway standard. On this basis, it has now been decided to set up a toll company in East Agder. I have been thinking about being so close to roadblocks. There are bombs both in Telemark and in West Agder. Unfortunately, however, a practice has developed that the state is spending almost all its money on toll projects, so that the counties that do not have toll finance do not receive state funds either. That is why I would like to ask the Council of State, who has personally visited East-Agder, to bring the matter of toll financing before the Stortinget as soon as possible. A toll project is also being carried out at Setesdal on Rv 9. The application has not been sent here, but if the municipality and the business community want a toll station, I think it is within the framework that Stortinget has previously approved. But the principle of bombing on important highways comes up to treatment in Norwegian transport plan for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1293	At the end of a debate such as this one is probably the big lines, or we're going to say the big transport projects, defensively deepened. So I want to use my three minutes to say a little about a smaller project, but a project that still plays an invaluable role for its region. This applies to Sunnhordland Airport A/S. The airport was used in the 1980s, and was the result of a strong local commitment, not least from the business community, which also played a significant role in financing the aerodrome. The routes to and from Stord have been strongly involved in enabling the industry in the Sunnhord region to assert itself in the elite division. With the challenges that this region is currently facing, not least as a result of structural changes in the supplier industry, the airport and air routes have had an even more important role to play. Good and fast communications are crucial for future industrial and industrial development. This aerodrome is probably one of the few in its kind to show operational surplus. In 1998, the number of journeys took place. 50000 passengers over Sunnhordland Airport. I hope that within a short time there will be a final clearance so that the aerodrome will have short track status. The closest challenge now is a new terminal building. That it is absolutely necessary is a mild and careful formulation. Once again, the region has taken the matter into its own hands and managed to complete the terminal development with large borrowings, municipal involvement and equity. Nevertheless, there is a state responsibility here. The so-called AFIS services at the Airport are the responsibility of the State. At least we should support the government financing of that part of the construction of towers and equipment. This is a little over 8 million. kr. The right hand side and the right hand side have their own comment on this. The Progress Party has yet to propose that the Aviation Agency should have a total of 5.3 million. kr to the project. The problem is that the Progress Party is not going in to add more funds to the Aviation Agency either. The proposal is literally a little airy, so I find it too easy to support such a proposal. Good wishes without adding fresh funds will not help Sunnhordland Airport. But I would like to stress again that it is no more than reasonable, just and fair that the State v/Air Navigation Agency enters into a financing part which is at least equivalent to the AFIS services in the new terminal building. If not, this should be resolved in connection with the treatment of the next year’s budget. In time, this will coincide somewhat with the use of the new terminal building by Sunnhordland Airport A/S.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1306	It was the committee leader in a line change earlier today – I think it was with the Council of State – that made me take the floor again. The committee leader strongly criticized the use of the 75 million. kr extra for national road investment involving the budgetary agreement between the Centre and the Workers' Party. He produced it almost as if it had now been pushed through a list of new road projects with small allocations. I think it's going to be something real to go so high on the track and criticise this arrangement when we read the following in the committee setting: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right will refer to the proposal of the majority of the Committee on Increases in appropriations for six road projects totalling 75 million. krones. These members support this proposal.’ Now the Progress Party and the Right have not done the lesson altogether, because there are not six, but seven road projects – but we can leave that behind. But the Right Party and the Advance Party support the distribution. And the seven projects that are now getting badly needed funds are not new projects that the Storting is now deciding to start up. Projects are in progress but have a rational drive, or have stopped due to a lack of appropriations. So there are no new projects that Storting is now deciding to start up. On questions from the Committee, the Ministry of Transport has replied that there are three national road projects which have stopped due to lack of appropriations. There's Rv 120 on Rome, it's E134 Edland-Haukligrend, and it's the tunnel on E6 from Beisfjord-Ferernes and into the Narvik center. We need to complete the road projects we have started before we start new, large-scale projects. Prior to the decision by Gardermoen as the main aerodrome, Stortinget agreed that Rv 120 would act as the unloading route. It became quite early that the road would not be finished until the opening of the airport last year. Nevertheless, the project was started three years ago, but then it said stop because of lack of funding. Also in the national press we have seen several pictures of bridges and road systems without connection, which have simply been stopped because of lack of appropriations. For this reason, the budgetary agreement means that we are now resuming and are gradually completing national road projects, important ones, which have already begun but have not been completed. And we have to make sure that these projects now get continuous progress. I hope that in two years' time we will have opened the new Rv 120 to Gardermoen, and I will make sure that the committee leader is specially invited.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1328	We are aware that the Stortinget asked to develop an action plan on road race protection. This plan was submitted by the Ministry of Transport in August this year. In St. prp. No 1 for 1999-2000, item 31 Racial protection premiums are reported, among others. as follows: ‘The Ministry will give priority to racial protection in future road appropriations and will, through this extra effort, help to ensure that, in those areas of the country where there are many razed roads, both life and health can be saved. The action plan foresees the continuation of the specific focus on racial protection through item 31.» The Christian People's Party naturally and necessarily sees this action plan for racial protection as the basis for its work on the national transport plan. It is with great wonder that we note that a large majority in the Committee on Transport are so concerned about weaknesses by having racial protection as a single budget line that they are now asking the Government to consider incorporating racial protection as part of normal national media in the treatment of national transport plans. The Christian People's Party will strongly stress that the racial protection plan must become a document that is actively used by the agencies that prepare proposals for priorities and provide a framework for the promises to the national roads in our country. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to giving us, through the right assessments and the right priorities, a name in Norway where people can travel without fear of race, travel without danger to life and health because of raced distances. It is important that extra bets are made when it comes to racial protection, and it is very important that mention and progress of racial protection are included in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1346	It could be very much to comment on the debate, but in a 3-minute post you don't get to say so much, so I get to focus on the representative Husøy's posts. Let me first say that I think maybe there was something unprofessional. But now leave it. But she accused the Right of Lifting Breaks, and I don't think you should do that. The right has stood by the promises we made in 1997. At least in every budget, we've tried to meet what we put in. That there has not been a majority on the Storting to increase road allocation, we have also registered. And what do you do when there's no money for the projects you have? Yes, then I believe that it is right and reasonable to go in and take the projects that matter most, which are of the utmost importance for Norwegian transport. And that's in the perspective you have to see Right – we can say – preliminary reluctance to start in Bjørvika, simply with the background that we have a lot of road projects in this country. It was said here that when there are a significant number of road fatalities in East Agder and West Agder, it must be wrong to start building a road project that has the worst cost-benefit in Norway. There are no traffic problems in Bjørvika. It's not that, and then it's wrong to use society's resources on such a project while people are fighting on other roads. That's what's on the right-hand side of the equation. If it's the case that this house will be involved in giving more money to travel, yes, then we're also going to be in Bjørvika, but the will to prioritise we have, and we have to have it. That is what was my point to the representative Husøy: Yes, if Bjørvika can be financed outside the transport budget, in other ways, then the Right shall be included. But taking money from transportation, from other projects with much greater impact and far greater importance to people, that's wrong. I'm going to stand upright on that consideration wherever it might be, because that's right. Means of transport cannot be used in the manner provided for by the representative Husøy. Let me finish with the following: What happens after the representative Husøy has been up here and said she wanted to spend the money there? Yes, then the representative Oppebøen Hansen from Telemark comes up to the pulpit and tries to get money to Telemark. Then the representative Gravdahl from Uppland comes up and says she needs money for Uppland. Then the representative came from Buskerud and said that she also needed money for Buskerud. Then Gunnar Halvorsen comes and says he needs money for E18, and then Torbjørn Andersen comes from the Progress Party, who has been on the decision on Bjørvika, and complains about lack of money to East Agder.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1357	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1365	We then go to voting in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1372	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1 by Thore Aksel Nistad, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, by Oddvard Nilsen on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 3 and 13, by Inge Myrvoll, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposals Nos. 4-12, from Oddvard Nilsen on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right The President will first address minority proposals outside the framework area. The President takes first of all proposal No. 13, from the Socialist Left Party, which she understands has been turned into a transmission proposal. The proposal shall then read as follows: ‘It is recommended to the Government that the work on new E6 through Melhus be extended to look at new corridors, as the alternative through the Vass Mountain.’ The President proposes that this proposal be submitted to the Government without a vote of the facts – and considers it to be acceptable. The proposals are then put to the vote. 4-12, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 4 sounds: «States sell their shares in SAS Norway ASA.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to suspend the national road haulage operation.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to transform the Road Administration’s production department into a limited liability company.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to establish the right of establishment and to abolish the requirement of a concession for express buses.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to convert NSB BA into a limited liability company.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to amend the provisions requiring the counties to redeem the means of operation of the routes being tendered.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to bring an action for the submission of tenders in the form of subsidised regular services.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to transform the Post Norway BA into a limited liability company.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to abolish Posten Norway BA’s remaining monopoly.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e1454	We are now going to the proposals under the framework area 18. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e3482	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e5502	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e9552	It will then be voted on by B. Frame-independent proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e9567	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it. The roll-call boards showed that 81 votes were cast for the Committee's vote and 17 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 22.29.49]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e9576	There are two votes missing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e9579	I have not cast my vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e9586	I don't either.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e9593	Accordingly, the suspension of the Committee was adopted by 83 votes to 17.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-09-2.ana.ud2610e9621	Before we leave the Chamber, the President has been strongly encouraged to remind everyone that tomorrow the meeting of the Stortinges starts at 0 p.m. 9th@item: inlistbox I'll meet you in the morning.
