ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e31	The representatives Olav Aksensen and Torstein Rudihagen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Bjørg Bruset, has taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on sick leave for representatives Aud Blattmann and Sverre Myrli respectively – both from 23 February onwards and until further notice from the Socialist Left Party Group on sick leave for the representative Rolf Reikamm from 23 February onwards and until further notice from the representative Kristin Krohn Devold on welfare leave from 23 February until 25 February from the Progress Party Group on welfare leave for the representative Per Sandberg from 23 February onwards and until further notice from the Höres Storingsgruppe on health leave for the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli from 23 February until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Akershus County, Vedis Vik, is currently abroad and for that reason prevented from meeting in Stortinget. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For the West-Agder counties: Rolf Terje Klungland For Akershus County: Julie Christiansen, Øivind Skirve and Rikke Lind For Oslo: Anders C. Shaastad For the North Trondelag County: Robert Erikson – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Julie Christiansen is proposed to be elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Rolf Terje Klungland, Julie Christiansen, Øivind Skjerve, Anders C. Sjaastad and Robert Erikson are present and will take the seat. From the Office of the Prime Minister, dated 18 February 1999 there is the following letter: ‘To Stortinget.Statsrådet Dagfinn Høybråten takes over the board of the Ministry of Justice and Police in addition to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health from 19 February 1999 and as long as the Council of State Aud-Inger Aure has been registered.’ [[health matters]] The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e130	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e135	I suggest Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e140	Asmund Kristoffersen is proposed as president. Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen is unanimously elected president of today's meeting. Councillor Peter Angelsen exceeded 2 kg. propositions [[see Unit]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e147	The representative, Karin Andersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e150	I will be presented with proposals for the right to cover the necessary expenditure on aids, school supplies and expenditure directly linked to approved rehabilitation plans.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e155	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e167	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 20 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 50 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 20 minutes each, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes each, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers of each party group, after parliamentary leaders and after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e176	The store today handles St.meld. No 51 for 1997-98 perspectives on the development of the Norwegian fishing industry. There is reason to be grateful that Norway has been equipped with large natural resources and natural resources when it comes to sea and fish. It allows us to create livelihoods and prosperity along the whole coast and for the whole country. The fishing industry is now almost non-subsidized; last year’s fisheries agreement had a framework of 115 million. NOK and 25 of them were connected to the conditioning system. The fishing industry had an export value of DKK 27.9 billion in 1998, raising amounted to 9.2 million. kroner of these. In addition, the turnover here comes home at NOK 6-7 billion a year. The extent of the catch is now approximately Ninety million. World-wide annual tons. Two hundred and eighty-five million. tonnes constitute the Norwegian share. The volume of farmed salmon and aure is 624 000 tonnes per year on a world-wide basis and the Norwegian lute is 364 000 tonnes. In order to meet the world’s craving for seafood in the future, it is primarily breeding that has to stand for the increase. From a 50-year perspective, annual production is expected to reach 100 million. tonnes of farmed fish if the portion of seafood is not to descend into the world household. Trend researchers think the use of seafood will increase monthly, and this will lead to an increase in volume. It is worth noting that more fish meat is now being produced in Norwegian fish farms than the combined production of meat in Norwegian agriculture, and this is happening on an area which together represents the size of the runways at Gardermoen. There is a reason to look at the results of the Norwegian fishing industry that can now be shown. But the aim of the Norwegian fisheries policy must be to be the world's foremost fishing nation, where we are at the forefront of the development of resource management and where we are at the forefront of fishing technology, aquaculture and industrial development. In the process of developing perspectives on the development of Norwegian fisheries policy, it is crucial to strike a balance between preserving the best in the administrative regimes that have been the foundation of Norwegian fishing industry for decades and bringing about the necessary renewal of the framework conditions to enable industry to meet the challenges of today and future cities. The Committee agrees with the main objective of the message, that fisheries policy should facilitate the profitable development of the fishing industry and that sustainable and long-term resource management is a means of achieving this. The goal of securing good jobs and busses along the coast is firm. Market orientation and value creation are success factors that need to be present in order for us to achieve these objectives. As mentioned, fishing industries are profitable and almost free of separate State aid. No one should be surprised, with the natural regulations of Norway for fishing activities. The question we have to ask, is whether we get what we should have had out of the fishing industry, given the unique things we have. Norwegian fishing industry has a high potential for increased value creation and profitability. It requires an active first step in the industry itself, but it also requires the setting up of the framework conditions so that the value creation can increase. This is particularly important as we know that the oil and gas adventure will end. In practice, this resource is not renewable. In order to achieve long-term and good nutritional development, the importance of fish stocks is crucial. The management of resources will have everything to say in such a perspective. The fishing industry is becoming increasingly knowledge-based, from the identification of the responsible fish stocks to optimal recaping, the management of the entire raw material and the knowledge of the products that the different markets want and are willing to pay well. The marine industry is fully research-based, and it says a little about the development potential when DKK 9.7 billion of the export value is allocated to a species, namely salmon – and in the fair name a little aure. There's a reason to assume that we'll be closed in producing other species for commercial capture. New species such as halibut, cod, bitumen, cane, hops and porpoise show good results which can clearly justify development costs. There is also reason to stress that breeding of several species can be a part of ensuring smooth and secure supply from Norway to demanding markets. The fishing industry is facing major challenges, with a decisive impact on the market. More market knowledge and emphasis on market preferences must lead to more cooperation between the different parts of the fishing industry at home. Raw material availability will always change, as this is a living resource that is not of the same scale every year. It's a very clear goal to get more further processing in Norway. Today, Norway is fishing to a great extent for other countries. Our fish, especially the farmed salmon, are too much processed abroad. As a result, Norway misses the added value created by processing, and we miss out on jobs. This is bad because large amounts of money have been invested by the State through research efforts and investment grants and the breeding industry itself through large loans. It is a crossroads of thought that our raw materials should form the basis for the creation of value in countries such as France and Denmark, when the consequence is that our own districts are struggling to obtain attractive jobs. Priority must be given to maintaining the markets in which we live. A further development of the EEA Agreement must be high on the agenda. The EU is, without comparison, our most important market and is likely to be in the future for a long time. The United States is a market that is very interesting, and it must work actively to get rid of the penal customs duties of Norwegian salmon being met there. The time for it is now. Austen has seen a good development for Norwegian fish exports. However, there is no reason to relax in this area. Our outposts, with their ambassadors at the head, must be actively involved in this work. We find that Russia has the potential to become a good market for Norwegian fish exports, but with the challenges that our exporters have faced in the Russian market recently, there is reason to go through the GIEK scheme to see if it is proportionate to the challenges. The forthcoming WTO negotiations must give priority to getting fish on the agenda. This is a joint committee behind it. Fisheries policy must be designed to help reinvigorate rural areas. The fish is a national common resource to be managed and exploited for the benefit of coastal communities. In order to obtain all-year jobs in the land-based industry that appear attractive and challenging, cooperation between the fishing and farming sides and industry is also necessary. At present, the risk of spreading fish diseases remains to be increased when it comes to exploiting industrial production capacity based on both farmed fish and catch. This can be solved by putting the necessary hygiene regimes in place. Freezing capacity needs to be allocated to further processing operations so that they can access raw material for annual production. Horizontal cooperation is also needed on the export side to meet the challenges on the customer side. Norwegian fishing is divided into a coastal and a sea fishing fleet. The two fisheries complement each other and have different strengths. The fleet has a large action radius and ensures large catches of quality raw materials for the large reception facilities. The coastal fleet ensures the delivery of top-quality fresh raw material if it is prepared on the receiving side. There is a separation in the regulatory enclosure which runs at vessels above and below 28 metres. Today the situation is that boats under and over 28 metres fish side by side and with the same fishing method, but have quite different framework conditions. One has a fixed quota while the other fishes within a maximum quota. Today there is a build-up in the ship group close to 27,5 metres, and there is no limit to how wide such a boat can be. In this way, the load capacity may well exceed a vessel half a metre in length and thus sort under other rules. This is unbearable. A joint committee asks the Government to return to the Storting with objectives other than the length of the vessel when determining the distinction between sea and coastal fishing. The Committee expects this work to be prioritised. In addition, there are other important reasons why ship design needs to be freed. If the fishing profession is to appeal to new generations of fishermen, better conditions must be available on board, such as own cabins with baths, workplaces which are strictly safe, and last but not least to allow the entire raw material to be preserved and exploited. Today goes up to 30 pst. of raw material overboard. It is unacceptable in itself and means that the product that should be developed is not to be obtained. With the products that can be extracted from the by-product, there is reason to believe that the profitability of the entire industry will depend on several arrows. It is urgent to bring up a case of freer design, and it must be clarified that this should not lead to an increase in catching capacity for collective sets. The Committee is concerned that schemes must be developed to ensure the continuous operation of the smallest vessels throughout the year. This is important to meet the fishermen who run the combined industries. In this context, it is important to pay particular attention to coastal fishing in Sami areas. The covered fishing fleet now has an average age of 23.2 years and needs renewal. The Committee believes that the fishing industry is so regulated and has such a varied fishing base from year to year that it comes into a special position. The government is therefore asked to come back to the Storting with proposals for current tax and financing mechanisms that can stimulate an increase in fleet replacement rates in the various parts of the country. However, the Committee has clarified that this must be done within the framework of the 1992 tax settlement. A closer look at the scope of the contracting support should be made, and it should be increased in order to allow more vessels in several parts of the country to participate in it. Today, fishing capacity is too high in relation to the resource base. It seems that despite the fact that there has been a structuralization, we have not seen the end of it. In this context, it is important to review and establish the allocation of quotas between coastal and marine fisheries, so that a sustainable distribution can be achieved. If the structuralisation process should be closed, the framework conditions must form the basis for long-term planning within the industry. The raw fish promise is, in the view of the plurality, an appropriate travel cap for the regulation of the first-hand transfer of fish. There is reason to recall that the auction prices of fish have hardly been close to the minimum price for several years. This would indicate that the salsals have well adapted the pricing. The form of the auction is widespread as a mode of trading and gives rise to a fair market price. However, it must be expressly confirmed that the arrangement of long-term voluntary agreements between purchasers and sellers may be permitted. Extreme situations must exist in order for such agreements to be reversed. The Committee has found reasons to request that this scheme be assessed more closely in the light of the current market situation. A number in the committee believe that the law of participants’ general rule that the fishing vessel should be 51 pst. fishing grounds shall be relocated. It must be possible to derogate from the main rule for the sea fishing fleet where necessary to contribute to the viable fishing environment, to maintain the geographical distribution of fishing vessels and to increase the capacity for value creation in the fleet/industry interaction on land. In time, we have to consider a new and more stringent requirement for documentation of the status of our fish stocks. Our international obligations must also be mentioned in this context. Marine research must become a bet area in the time coming. Universities do not have resources relative to tasks to be solved. It may cost us dearly, not least for the prevention of fish diseases. Norway is a small country, and there is reason to believe that we do not want to be lit with a fragmentation of research resources on too many actors. It must therefore be built on the research environments we have, where the Marine Research Institute in Bergen is the starting point for resource research and fisheries research in Tromsø is the centre of gravity before processing. The level of political ambition must increase monthly in the coming years, when it comes to research efforts. The Committee has placed considerable emphasis on the research aspect in its position, and I would like to stress that the expectation that the Minister for Fisheries will return with an active follow-up is high. Competence and recruitment are key factors in the development of the Norwegian fishing industry. Flexibility and innovation are important for the development of competitiveness. The general level of competence must therefore be increased at all stages. The piece of knowledge will grow when the product that a solid market wants to buy is developed. It is very positive that distance learning is developed so that fishermen can obtain a letter of formal qualifications. This must be passed on and further developed. Recruitment must start early by providing children with information and contact with the industry and life along the coast. Those who take fishing training in secondary schools must secure apprenticeship places. Recruitment measures are also needed at university and university level to ensure the essential competence of the industry. It is important to focus on measures that make several women consider the industry attractive. Last but not least, it is crucial that the whole fishing industry applies those who have already acquired fishing professional competence. I'm worried that it might seem that the need for competence is most expressed in festivities, while the truth seems that it is difficult for many of those who have acquired such a challenge to get a job. At best, it's short-thinked by the industry and at worst a disaster for the industry. I propose that the resolution contained in the vote be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e235	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e238	The Working Party has been involved in this matter throughout the period covered by the Committee, in innovation and in maximising value creation. This does not appear to have been expressed by the Progress Party in the form of proposed measures; it is preferable to make a number of general comments. Should it not be possible to make any demands on the industry so that profitability can develop, for example: increased competition on the fleet side and on the land side? What has happened to positive things in this industry so far is more in spite of that than because of today's fisheries policy. If you shield all the actors, it won't be much innovation. Don't Rita Tveiten agree that you are now preserving a system where there are the few privileges that get granted concessions, and perhaps not always those that have the most thought-out concept?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e243	I would like to say that when it comes to the change in focus underlying this perspective message, where the demand for profitability in the industry has shifted from issues related to district policy, which was previously at the top, it is a rather dramatic move. But the time has come for such a change. It also shows the industry's income in the last few years. The legislation that we have and that regulates the fishing industry has seemed to have good ability to cope, and I do not think it has expired at all – I am thinking of both the law of participants and the law of raw fish. When it comes to the issue of concessions for the few and privileged, there is a question that we are allowed to come back to in connection with the processing of unit allowances. Today, the Participant Act ensures that those who have been active fishermen three out of the last ten years – until at least today – can seek acquisition rights and thus have the right to own a vessel and thus obtain a quota. So I thought to the extent that we have a system where there are still possibilities for new actors to enter the industry. Then it's decisive what kind of grip we're doing in the future, if it's going to continue. However, I would like to say that many parts of the fisheries policy cannot develop without the fact that we have the very great political governance with it, because there are systems for which the law says that we do not have a basis. There's also reason for us to see if we're so inconsiderate that we can't follow their needs, and whether we have to go further into it. I don't ignore that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e250	At the annual conference of the Norwegian fishing industry last week, the representative Kjell Opseth stated that he wanted to remove the access of the sales teams to set aside long-term agreements concluded between the seller and the buyer, i.e. to remove a rather significant point in the Raw Fish Act. My question is then: Why has the Workers' Party not followed up on this in the vote - has not the representative Opseth in this area been able to see through its launch at this conference? The other aspect that I want to address relates to the following comment in the setting: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, believe that it is also not possible to expect that an industry with such a small proportion of employees with higher education should take sole financial responsibility for upgrading the workforce in line with market-driven challenges.’ What is the meaning of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party with such a strong and discouraging mention of Norway's second largest export industry? No matter how you might look at this with higher education, we can at least establish that the industry is governed by a large number of people with relatively high education. There is no such thing and at the same time this industry can be referred to in such a successful way as the case-rapporteur does in his opening speech. What do you mean by this kind of statement?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e262	I'll start with the last one first. I just want to say that at all I have no need, wish, or feel it is right to have a dwindling hold on the fishing industry. I have not today, and I have never had that. One of the reasons why it's safe to go on the right side of the dialect. My mother was away from Austevoll, so it would be bad. However, it is clear that much of the knowledge available in the fishing industry today is knowledge of an informal nature. That doesn't mean that that competence isn't valuable, on the contrary. In recent years, a dissertation at the University of Tromsø has been presented which clearly shows that one of the strength factors of the Norwegian fishing industry is that the players are highly skilled, and I believe that it is also necessary in a reform of training and education to facilitate formalisation of informal competence, so that it forms an essential part of that concept. So it was that the representative, Opseth, has expressed a desire to put in place a system that, aside from the Raw Fish Act, is capable of reversing long-term agreements. We have asked the Government in the setting whether today's system is proportionate to the challenges facing the market today. Then there should be a clear message that this needs to be looked at more closely. But I want to remind you that the right to reverse agreements is only valid in situations where there is a larger amount of fish than what can be accepted. And it's for the sake of the smallest vessels, which have a smaller radius of action, that it may be necessary to reverse agreements, so that everyone has the ability to deliver. I didn't think it was such a bad principle. But now we're going to see what the minister's coming back with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e271	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e274	St. Report. No 51 for 1997-98, perspectives on the development of the Norwegian fishing industry, start by stating that the fisheries policy should facilitate the profitable development of the fishing industry and that sustainable and long-term resource management is one of the prerequisites for doing so. The Party therefore considers that the need for increased profitability requires a fundamental review of the fisheries policy instruments. Many regulations and instruments that were right a decade ago are not appropriate today. Public regulation, concession schemes, red tape and support schemes, the latter of which have stimulated overinvestment in the fishing fleet, are some of the reasons for low profitability. The capacity of the fishing fleet is therefore larger than the resources required. We believe that the instruments and framework conditions of the fishing industry must be designed to promote sound resource management, increased profitability and local economic development. It is nice to note that the export value almost doubled in a decade. The export value for 1998 is $27.9 billion. However, it is worth noting that the increase in export value is primarily due to an increase in volume due to the constant downward trend in prices for most products, except in 1998. As Norwegian fishing industry exports 90 pst., it is important that the government through the WTO is working towards the development of international driving rules that provide predictable conditions for trade and non-discriminatory market access. The main non-EU seafood market is currently Japan. For Norway, it is now very important to look at Asia, where the potential for increased fish exports is considered to be very high. The fish market has become a global arena where deliverability and quality are two important requirements. In a growing market, more and more of the fish should be processed in Norway. The fishing industry must become more and more a supplier of high-quality products that meet the needs of its customers. In order to achieve a high level of processing, the fishing fleet must take responsibility for ensuring stable access to raw materials to industry. Here, there is a need for a holistic approach with a focus on value creation. Active ownership of the fishing fleet has been eroded by political dispensations and administrative shipowners. The fishing industry must be entitled to own a majority share of the fishing fleet. The fishing laws must be able to authorise strategic alliances, in other words long-term agreements. The Raw Fish Act is old-fashioned, and the law is not adapted to today's circumstances. The Raw Fish Act can therefore be said to have a conflict relationship between the joints as a starting point. In the opinion of the Advance Party, the buyer and the seller must become equivalent parties. The unilateral right of salesmen to set prices and conditions must be abolished. Nor must unfair taxes be imposed on industry. The Progress Party believes that it is necessary to create an industry without distinction between the raw fish layer and the industry. The Party recognises that the industry must be regulated to a certain extent, including: because no one has natural ownership of marine resources. However, there is too much distance between sensible regulation based on ensuring freedom of industry competition and the current amount of regulation, regulation and regulation. That is why we believe that the participation law, the raw fish law and the fisheries agreement system can be abolished. Rather, the State should concentrate on facilitating conditions through efficient resource monitoring, resource allocation and control. The Progress Party will claim that in a system of tradable allowances, the industry itself will determine the number of jobs on which it is based. We'll get back to this in connection with Ot.prp. No 21, the unit quota scheme, which is to be finalised for spring. It will also remind you that even though the aquaculture industry has had a strong growth over the last 15 years, it is struggling with a complex and unbridled piece of legislation. We therefore believe that the authorities should focus on environmental and veterinary requirements and that legislation should be simplified in order to improve the competitiveness of the farming industry and market adaptation. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Right Party and the Advance Party, has concluded on the principle that the fishing fleet is to be fished. The same majority agree that the requirement to obtain acquisition rights should be strengthened to ensure that the applicant must have been active for three of the last five years, towards today three of the last ten years. The majority thus supports the continuation of the general rule of the Act on participation in fishing vessels of at least 51 pst. fishing gear. However, the same majority support the possibility of exemption for the fishing industry to own vessels. The Progress Party agrees that legislation needs to be drawn up which clarifies the conditions for exemption to a greater extent than at present. The Party considers that any R & D charge should only be imposed if there is broad support for it in the fisheries industry. It is a prerequisite that the industry itself administers the scheme and determines how the funds paid up are used. Finally, it is important for the Progress Party to stress that the criteria for the allocation of quotas between the coastal fleet and the sea fishing fleet are fixed. It reinforces predictability and is essential for the functioning of the unit quota system and an effective ongoing capacity adjustment. I would like to mention proposal No. 1 by the Right and Advance Party, and proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, which can be read in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e306	Terje Knudsen has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e312	It is not surprising to hear the Progress Party in this debate in relation to their views on the task of public authorities both in terms of regulation and in terms of fisheries arrangements. However, what I am very concerned about is what the majority of the Committee agrees must be done in terms of the ability of small enterprises to cooperate in relation to market developments. It surprises me that the Advance Party is opposed to the possibility of joining a common apparatus in this field. It has to be a strength and an opportunity for small enterprises along the coast to be able to do a work together. Does not the Progress Party believe that such work will help us to continue to have a population structure in Norway like ours, with a coastal population largely based on strong coastal communities? Each enterprise itself is too small to have this apparatus. Cooperation must be the right way to go, and therefore I will ask the Progress Party why such cooperation does not seem to make sense. The Raw Fish Act has been very important as a basic element of Norwegian fisheries. And I also think there is a lot of consensus today that we must always have a raw fish law that is adapted to the time we live in, and that is why we need to make adjustments. It's done all the way, and there's also a lot of agreement about it. But when the Progress Party takes the step of wanting to repeal the whole law, one really has to challenge them a little and ask: what do you want to do with the many aspects of the Raw Fish Act today, namely social tasks such as resource management and their control function? What's going to come instead? That's where I think the Advance Party is going to be very diffuse. I would also encourage them to say a little more about what they want in relation to the law of participants, which they also want to cancel.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e319	The representative, Rasmussen, was concerned about and thought that the Progress Party had nothing to do with the small businesses, and that we would oppose their cooperation. I assume that Rasmussen believes that this is the profitability of these companies you have to look at. And in the case of the small businesses that are located in North Norway, where most of them have gone bankrupt some time or other, and today they're clean, I have to tell the representative Rasmussen that what's important is that you look at the general instruments, that's the ones that need to be improved. But even though Rasmussen is trying to question the Progress Party in this matter, it is not quite possible to jump away from the fact that no concrete action has been taken in connection with this communication. Then it is possible to try an attack on those who have tried to think again. One must not get there because if turnover has doubled in the last year – because it does not have profitability – there is no need for new grips. The Progress Party believes that, in addition to a new fisheries policy, it is urgent to release new creative actors. But the Labour Party is on the bastant, and they will continue with yesterday's fisheries policy, with traditional rural policy instruments for fisheries. That's right what the representative Kristiansen was into when he referred to Opseth instead. So in the case of the Raw Fish Act, the Progress Party believes that it should be terminated, we do not hide that. We want to introduce voluntary arrangements and membership in the sales laws. We believe that the fishermen themselves can agree to prices directly with the buyers, so that the market works that way, and that unnecessary regulation is removed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e328	As expected, the point of raw fish loves was a central topic here today. We would have expected that, as the setting sounds. Raw fish laws have been very central to the Norwegian fisheries policy. The Christian People's Party has supported and continues to support the use of that law. And minimum prices have contributed to stability in the raw fish market. In our view, the regulatory framework provides sufficient opportunities for fleets and industry to find working and long-term solutions for first-turnover. I can't see that the raw fish promise generally prevents reasonable, long-term agreements between the fishing boat and the consignee. This law will abolish the Progress Party. So the question is, how does the Progress Party see that the first turnover should be regulated? Now the Knudsen said a little about it instead, but can he deepen it? Does the Progress Party not see the need for a law at the bottom of its sales?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e337	I can very well elaborate on questions from the representative, Mr Auchan, on what we think about the raw fish law. We believe that the 1951 Raw Fish Act, which grants the fish sales laws exclusive right to the marketing of fish in their area, is not of the good. Furthermore, the Law allows for minimum prices to be fixed, temporary prohibitions on catches and guide catches to specific purchasers. Such sales monopolies are prohibited for other businesses. We in the Progress Party understand that Aukhan and the Christian People's Party do not like the basic aspects of Norwegian fisheries that we do not agree with. The problem with the message is that it is chemically free of innovation. Everything should be at the old, as we in our party believe is misguided policy. However, more research needs to be done. There is a need to get rid of some of the greens, and cooperation solutions need to be found in a number of areas. But this is going to be nothing but a positive talk. It is a difficult and comprehensive document we are discussing today. However, it is not unlikely that a large part of the fishing environment will find the content of this communication frustrating.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e344	It is tempting to challenge the Progress Party more closely to some things concerning the Raw Fish Act, but I don't think I should do that. We get answers that are quite – I feel – unclear as to what one really wants. I also noticed that the representative Knudsen also did not say anything about what I briefly mentioned in relation to the participant law. But the main reason why I wanted to take a new line is that it concerns cooperation between small businesses on the market. I think the Knudsen just talked about that question in his answer. And that is why I have to ask again: does it not make sense for small businesses, who have neither the economy nor other means, to have the market apparatus needed to meet the challenges facing the Norwegian fishing industry? In cooperation between the farms, one could also achieve that each farm will be strengthened plus that we would achieve the overall impact we want for Norwegian fishing industry in relation to the market side. Where does the Progress Party actually want in this field? I am not in the Business Committee, but I see from what goes on again in relation to the discussion that the Progress Party has gone against such developments as a majority in the Committee wants.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e351	What Rasmussen is now talking about is that we should be against the companies getting in touch with each other. Businesses must be able to do it themselves without meddling the state into it. So I don't understand why Rasmussen makes any big points about it. Rasmussen was also a member of the law. In order to avoid any doubt as to what the Progress Party believes, we write that we note that the original objective of the participant law, namely that active fishermen should own fishing vessels, is no longer fulfilled for larger fishing vessels. In addition to this, all the exemptions come, and the Progress Party therefore believes that the participant law is so eroded today that the law can be repealed. When most fishing boat companies are run by people who are not themselves active fishermen, combined with all the exemptions that are granted, we are at that level. It is clear that Rasmussen does not know all the aspects of the matter. I would like to give some indication as to what we stand for: the Progress Party agrees that governments must exercise administrative control over marine resources and quotas must be determined through research. But the Progress Party is thinking new. We can imagine a base rate, i.e. the offer of quotas by the fishermen. This rent will benefit from the proper use of district Norway, instead of fishing for territorial criteria, as is the case today. But we're going to be more careful about this when we're going to deal with the unit quota system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e360	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e363	'... but there were fish playing down the cab, and that game, he wanted to see', it's called in the song that Norway knows all about. For Coast Norway, the fish, or the silver of the sea, have always been of great value. It shows our song treasure. We know that as a cage along the coast. Nevertheless, fishing and farming have never been given the status and attention that they, for example, have. has been given in Iceland. It should now be over. Fisheries and aquaculture are the second largest export industry in Norway. It is a renewable resource that can be and be if we manage it wisely. A total of NOK 27.9 billion was the export income in 1997. Markets per market Today is more uncertain, with crises both in Japan and the former Soviet Union, one must be able to assume that demand for clean sea products will increase rather than decrease in the years to come. The EU is still the main recipient of Norwegian fish, but other markets have had a larger increase. The setting today shows a broad political plurality of the fisheries policy proposed by the Government. The Ministry of Fisheries provides a value chain perspective for fisheries policy. Market challenges are the starting point for discussing value chain improvements, structural issues, resource allocation, control, research and development issues. Poor people were never as poor on the west as they were on the east. The lake was common, and poor food was taken as rich dinner – good, nutritious and healthy food. This quality food has also become known in the world, and the markets for our very good fish species are growing. Norway is a commodity exporting country. Too many fish go round and the frog goes to markets in other countries. The biggest challenge in the years to come is to be able to further process more at competitive prices. Access to resources and natural habitats for aquaculture are the basis of the industry. The access to resources in the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea seems to be good, while the situation is more worrying for the North Sea. Sea mammals – torment and sell – are havocing twice what we nordics are taking out. It makes it necessary to reduce the population of marine mammals strongly. There are limits to how much raw material we can capture. Norway must therefore seek to optimise the creation of wealth in the sea, and of course we are not. We are now exporting 2,000 different products to 150 countries. It's possible to do more of what we do too little of today. Fisheries and aquaculture employed directly 40,000 people. This ensures the bust and creates great ringing in Coast Norway. Research and development are important for increasing the number of bones of coastal populations, which depend on fisheries or aquaculture. Poultry, cod, locusts, bumblebees and farmed shells provide fresh opportunities for Norway's seafood. It is also important that the dumping duty imposed by the United States on Norwegian salmon be abolished. In particular, it is important because of the uncertain economic situation today, where the United States has the most stable economy in total. Coast Norway has a tradition that the fishing boat owner was a fisherman on board his own boat. The Christian People's Party is satisfied that this principle is furthered by the fact that the fishing fleet is to be fished and yet with the possibility of exemption. The Christian People's Party believes that raw fishlova secures the fisherman's market price for goods. This is a good system to keep track of. Nevertheless, one should be able to obtain a system of long-term contracts that secures the industry's raw materials, but then at market prices. When it comes to replacement possibilities for an too old fishing fleet, I left it to another representative from the Christian People's Party, Modulf Augen. Finally, I would like to say that research and development are crucial for future fisheries and aquaculture alike. The Committee has also been agreed that the Marine Research Institute in Bergen and Fisheries Research in Tromsø must build on the model that these environments have reached when it comes to division of tasks over the years to come. So that's what it has to be. It is necessary and proper to build up the marine research institute as one of the most important scientific environments in research and management, not only in Norway but in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e395	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e398	I am surprised that the representative Apelthun Seele, whose role in shaping the fisheries policy of the future, did not stress the role of women in this industry. Many coastal women with a diversity of experience and competence in this area do not see opportunities for a career in the fishing industry. Why don't they do that? Is it e.g. education for this sector which hinders it? The women's bet can't just be an alibi. It will lose industry and society in total. What concrete measures does the Christian People's Party consider important in order to make women's importance visible in coastal communities and thus in the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e405	In five minutes, you're going to have one hell of a lot of unsaid stuff. But the role of women in the coastal community is as important as the role of women in Norway. If a woman moves, if a woman has no job or can feed herself, she moves, and then there is no basis for the man to stay there. What the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have said about is that supplementary industries in aquaculture must be able to become women's domain. We already see that women have applied for the possibility of discontinuing, and I believe that there can be a forward-looking industry in which women can also have a greater share than they have traditionally had before fishing. That being said, I would say that there is no reason why women should not both fish and specifically control fishing, as there is an increasing trend towards, for example, fishing. in Austevoll, one of the strongest fishing communities in the country. The Christian People's Party is very concerned that bets on the women's side should be an important part of the fishing nation Norway. But there's not so much about it, either in the message or in the committee comments that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party are all about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e415	The Deltakers Act and the Raw Fish Act are, of course, the fisherman's constitution. The fisheries notification submitted is almost entirely free of new creative measures. Similarly, the law on participants is only slightly liberalised, rather containing intensifications. Does Apelthun not see the paradox in the fact that, when today's fisheries policy does not work, one has to think alternatively in order to achieve a credible fisheries policy? Today’s central government policy continues to be a symbol of yesterday’s policy, where politicians and bureaucrats control rather than leave more to market within specific resource allocation frameworks. Will the Christian People's Party go with its back into the future in terms of fisheries policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e420	I can assure the representative Terje Knudsen that we will not go with our backs into the future. And we don't. For today's fisheries policy works. It actually seems very good. Fisheries have developed into the second largest export industry in Norway. That means that the fisheries policy that we are pursuing has a positive effect. One expands continuously. What I, as a coastal woman, also know, is that those who are fishing are in good shape. That I think is positive, they should have it. Those who fish in the sea have particularly good conditions. What we need is to manage the resources that are renewable, but that for some species are at risk, with understanding. Then fishing can become Norway's second largest and perhaps the largest export industry in the hundred year that's ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e427	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e430	Norway is a port. Most of what we stand for here in the country is based on harvesting from or operating at sea, whether it's oil, shipping or fishing. Norway is a major power in this context and manages 2 million km2 seas. 50 pst. the population of Norway lives along the coast, and 80 pst. Norwegian exports of goods come from the coast. Right-wing wants greater investment in the fishing industry. First of all, profitability is the key to the success and success of the industry. We want a balanced and sustainable development of the industry, because it is also nature's contribution that is the most crucial factor in the development of fisheries. This means that we have to take care of all the raw materials, while at the same time making very strict demands for the harvesting of the stocks. In this context, there is reason to be alarmed when we are constantly seeing examples of unwitting harvesting of small fish – whether Norwegian or other. The last examples taken from the Barents Sea are simply frightening. But we have also seen the North in action in distant waters that have been engaged in fisheries that we should have been spared. Therefore, we need to keep track of developments in the control plant and in the coastguard. But also in the field of research and participation in international bodies, it is necessary to strengthen the management of the common stocks. The right has enormous faith in the fisheries and aquaculture industries. The marine industry needs to be more fully exempted from the detailed regulation to which it is subject, while the various departments and directorates have to become the counterparts of the aquaculture industry, rather than partial counterparts, which have been perceived by several. It might be within the aquaculture industry that we find the highest growth potential. Therefore, the Council of State must contribute to a better dialogue with this part of the fishing industry and ensure that, for example, deflagration should not be necessary economically in the future. On the right, it is positive that the department in the message allows the industry's value chain to be as wide as it does. We believe that the market, i.e. the customer's choice in the future, will determine the development of the industry. It will become even more the choice of the customer that ultimately determines how much the pay bag will remain with the fisherman in the first paragraph. But the Storting must allow the industry to develop – an industry that is very flexible and adaptable and historically used to changing times and challenges. The fishing industry, even with its problems, is one of the most successful industries in the country. Nationally, fish are today our second largest export industry, with more than one country in the past. 90 pst. the output is exported and the industry has a market and export know-how that no one else actually has. The industry has the potential to double its export value if the right handles are carried out. The world actually needs our fish. The fishing industry stands for 8.5 pst. of total Norwegian exports, and is the industry with the largest export growth at present. But at the same time, the industry has to tighten itself up. It needs to improve its profile. This cannot be particularly contributed by the Norwegian big business. The industry is characterised by overcapacity on both sea and land, and the fleet is obsolete. Permits and dismissals are well-known terms in industry, while seasonal fluctuations cause difficulties in obtaining labour. The industry must go on its own and discuss how a person communicates outwards. Too many people have the impression that the fishing industry is a well-subsidised district industry which is full of special schemes and which is overly argumentative. Too many actually compare the fishing industry and the agricultural industry. Although the impression is completely wrong and comparison with agriculture is completely unfair, the fisheries industry has several lessons to learn from the agricultural industry in terms of communication. It is the industry itself that must ensure that authorities and the population have the same respect for the fishing industry as for other industries that are highly dependent on people's awareness. When I underline this, it is because the industry has problems with recruitment, with renewal and with access to capital. Speaking of recruitment: the warning lamp should light up when research reports claim that the fishing industry will be the loser in the fight for the labour force of the future. Work on recruitment to the industry needs to be improved in particular. In the absence of economic recovery in the industry, young people will not apply to the fishing industry. Recruitment is a theme that has been given too little space in the message, and it is a theme that I also have with the impression that the typical fisheries communities are not taking seriously. In this context, it is enough to refer to the educational chapter, which is particularly neglected. When the Right wants to dissolve into obsolete legislation and simplify the industry's framework conditions, it's not to reduce the fishermen's power and rights, but it's based on a desire to continue to invest in the industry and look at what's going on to strengthen the industry into the 21st century. Right wants a flexible and differentiated fleet. Right wants a clear distinction between coastal and sea-going fleets, and we want both fleets to have as much stable and long-term framework conditions as possible. We also want to build up under the active ownership, which then until the degrees characterize the industry. Right wants and believes that the fishing industry will continue to be owned and driven from the coast in the future, because we know in the Right that active ownership, whether on board or on land, provides the best result and the best management. When the Right wants to solve the raw fish law, it's because we don't find that the law is adapted to the time and challenges the industry faces. We believe that long-term agreements, auctions and, more generally, mutual ownership of fleets and landing facilities will be a better system for maintaining first-hand turnover than the power and role reflected in the Raw Fish Act. There should be no doubt that onshore industrial workplaces need to be given attention when discussing raw fish law and Participant law. It is not just a matter of ensuring the industry's stable supply of raw materials, but equally a question of what future ambitions we should have in terms of the level of processing of the substance. Right wants to simplify and expand the unit quota system. That means we'll have investigated the issue of a 13 year expiration of the allowance disposal time limit. It also means that we will liquidate most of the restrictions on the transfer of allowances between ship groups. This will contribute to capacity-adjustment and, at the same time, enhance profitability and facilitate access to the capital of the industry. With regard to the law on participants, we look forward to treatment later today. Right here, too, wants to solve the law and not make the law more complicated and difficult, when the aim of most people is to improve access to capital and recruitment. Of course, the right would like to have the most active fishermen, and in the case of the coastal fleet, I would like to make it clear that we want to keep the participation law as it is today. However, with regard to the sea-going fleet, we believe that it must be opened up for the fishing industry on land to have a more legal opportunity to enter the owner's side. Not least, we think of the need of the land-based fish industry to ensure stable raw material access, but we also see a change in the participant law as a contribution to recruitment and increased capital to the industry. It is important for industry to ensure optimal and as stable market access as possible. This is probably also the main political challenge for the future. An industry that is then export oriented depends on minimum restrictions and customs barriers. We see that the salmon industry is particularly plagued. Furthermore, we see that our relationship with the EU, which is our main market, unfortunately leads to Norway being too much a supplier of raw materials. In this context, the Right wishes to renegotiate the fisheries section of the EEA Agreement. Right is very pleased that the veterinary agreement between Norway and the EU is in place, and we note that the Government ensures that the Schengen Agreement does not cause trade or cost disadvantages to the fishing industry. However, we are calling for the Government's approach and negotiating position in the forthcoming WTO negotiations, which are becoming very important for the fishing industry. We expect, not least, the Minister for Fisheries to appear as a driving force behind the Government in order to safeguard the interests of fishermen and fisheries in this very important matter of industry. These negotiations start as we know it at the end of the year, and I hope the Minister for Fisheries will address this issue in his contribution. Fish are important in today's society. I repeat that the danger of a long-term low oil price and weakened welfare arrangements will force us to invest in other and profitable industries, and, to the right, the fishing industry will appear to be one of the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e468	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e471	The recruitment of the fishing industry is undoubtedly a very central challenge, and I agree with Ivar Kristiansen that it is probably given too little attention in the notification. I also agree with Kristiansen that a profitable industry with a focus on increased value creation is of course very important for recruitment. For me, it's a cross of thought that many of those who move out of the coastal districts might think to do so because they don't perceive it as giving the fishing industry a sufficiently interesting, challenging and secure job. But if we're going to be able to develop the industry, and if we're going to be able to improve the recruitment of the industry in general, it's important that we increase the level of competence. It is therefore with amazement that I note that the Right does not participate in a note from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, which emphasises the expectation that the Government will pay particular attention to the problem of continuing training in the fishing industry, and where it says: ‘In addition to the economic aspects, the decentralised structure requires the development of training models adapted to the spread of localisation and seasonal fluctuations in operations, for example through the development of distance learning facilities.’ In my view, on the one hand, we need to pay greater attention to how we organise the provision of education, among other things. in secondary education and whether it appears attractive to young people. On the other hand, we need to focus more attention on how to increase the level of competence, not least the formal level of competence, of those who are already in the industry. It seems to me that continuing training offers are of particular importance in the fishing industry, and perhaps of even greater importance in this industry than in many others. That is why I am surprised that the Right does not also contribute to stressing the importance of this being organised, among other things. by means of distance learning offers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e484	It is a very important topic for the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen to address, and I agree with most of it. It is important that the profile and status of the fishing industry be increased jointly, and in particular through the industry itself, because there is no doubt that the fishing industry has a lower level of consciousness than it deserves. It should really be in line to have a clear status in people’s consciousness – a status which today means that the industry receives almost nothing in State aid. Compared to Western shipyards, Norwegian shipowners, etc., and not least agriculture, the Norwegian fishing industry is receiving the lommerous Norwegian industry, but in people's consciousness the image has actually turned to the opposite for some reason. The fishing industry has a significant competence. There can be no doubt about it. The reason we were not in the comment to which the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen refers, I mentioned earlier. I quote again from the note: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers’ Party and the Progress Party, believe that it is also not possible to expect that an industry with such a small proportion of higher education staff should take sole financial responsibility for upgrading the workforce’ – etc. We found that opinion and that comment so far disappointing to the industry that we chose to stand outside. This is a responsibility which must be borne by not least by the county councils. And it's a responsibility that municipalities have to take when it comes to facilitating increased education. It is desirable to see to what extent the counties and some municipalities take into account in order to facilitate export skills, give the apprenticeship system a place in the fishing industry, etc. In this area, I agree with the heart of the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e498	I wonder if Right will weaken the predatory promise. Is not the auctioning principle the best form of market pricing that we can get? Is a sudden move towards the market when it works in the fisherman's favor? I also wonder that the Right no longer has the sense of the free, independent feeding fish. Why is it not OK for the Right that fishermen should still have control of their own business, by owning 51 pst. by the boat?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e505	I think the representative Apelthun Seele must have misunderstood quite a bit in my post. We are not against the fact that we are going to have a fishing rage fleet, on the contrary, I underlined in my post the active ownership, which contributes both to profitability and not least to better management as such. I think we will do the fishing industry a bear service if we are to take care of death and life and continue today's legislation in a completely new situation for the fishing industry. Nor can it have passed the Christian People's Party house – the situation that the industry in the country is constantly facing, which is a main theme in terms of the issue of lack of capital, lack of recruitment and not least the lack of stable supplies of raw materials. That's the main problem. And it's in this area that the Right wants to change the Raw Fish Act. Of course, we have faith in auctions. After all, we've underlined that by allowing an auction system to get more space in the fish market. But with regard to the issue of the raw fish law, it is clear that it is over-mature to be reconsidered. We have to make sure that you can have stable, long-term agreements between the buyer and the seller that a sales team cannot get in and oversample. In this area, I believe that the representative Apelthun Seele will take a thorough review, and not least through contact with the industry on land, find out how they view the issue of raw fish law, and also the issue of participation law. It's about buying and selling, i.e. the fleet at sea and the industry on land, having to find each other more to meet the challenges of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e514	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e517	Norwegian fishing industry has experienced positive developments over several years. Exports are increasing year by year, profitability has improved in large parts of the fleet, market orientation in industry has increased and the resource situation for most populations has been relatively good in recent years. The aquaculture industry has doubled its production in ten years and appears to be an internationally competitive industry with great potential for development. In addition, industrial aid has been reduced over the last few years. The industry has therefore undergone a very positive development, and with an ever-increasing demand for almost all species of fish, the prospects for the future should be clear. Nevertheless, this industry is also struggling in some areas with its problems. It is overcapacity in most fleet groups as well as in industry. The average age of the fishing fleet is alarmingly high and there are significant recruitment problems in parts of the industry. The situation of resources indicates a partly alarming development. It underlines the need for research and international cooperation on the resource situation. In St.meld. No 51 for 1997-98, it is envisaged that the fisheries policy should facilitate a profitable development of the fishing industry. Sustainable resource management is a prerequisite for achieving this. Through market orientation and increased value creation, the industry will contribute to good jobs and coastal settlements. The fishing industry is highly export-dependent and, with the high availability of high-quality raw material, it facilitates increased value creation in the industry. The notification has therefore also focused heavily on the market situation and market opportunities. Our long-range coast provides a proximity to the fishing resources representing a competitive advantage, where coastal fleets, combined with small-scale industry and coastal decentralised reception facilities, must form the backbone of the industry. Of course, this doesn't mean either. Of course, we must also have a sea-going fleet such as shall ensure stability and ensure the management of the major maritime areas. The government continues the principle that we should have a fleet of fishing gear, with certain dispensations in relation to the needs of industry, in order to ensure stable deliveries by owning vessels. The majority of the Committee, unlike the minority, does not wish to allow general access for industry to own its own vessels and considers that this could in the long term lead to structural changes in the industry which are not profitable. I would like to emphasise the premise of the majority when it is stated in the vote that exceptions should be made to the general rule that active fishermen should own the fleet when necessary to contribute to the viable fishing environment, maintain the geographical distribution of fishing permits and increase the value creation of the interaction between the fleet and the industry on land. I would also like to express my satisfaction at the fact that a majority in the Committee now wants an evaluation of whether vertically integrated units have contributed to more stable jobs and increased profitability. Former State Council, Jan Henry T. Olsen, in cooperation with the SND, arranged to establish large vertically integrated units in which the industry would have full control from the bottom to the mouth, as it was hot. There is every reason to ask the question whether this has contributed otherwise than to a structural change with strong ownership concentration, which in my view is very unfortunate for the industry. When the fishing industry and the next round of fishing rights are owned by fewer and fewer, this creates an unfortunate concentration of power that does not serve either the community or the nation concerned. It would be enough to refer to the development we have had in the breeding industry, where we have received a very large concentration of ownership, to see that today the country's largest breeding group is sold to foreign stakeholders or merged with foreign companies. This is a way of flagging out good farming sites in the industry which are unfortunate and which should be combated, while at the same time using the available instruments to prevent similar developments in traditional fisheries. The average age of the fishing fleet is high, and despite increased profitability, specific measures are necessary to contribute to the renewal of the fleet. On this basis, the Committee has unanimously agreed that, within the framework of the 1992 tax reform, current tax and financial instruments should be developed which could stimulate an increase in fleet replacement rates. Close cooperation between industry and the shipbuilding industry will be necessary in this context, with a view to bringing forward the vessels of the future, emphasising the need to preserve and exploit the whole fish. It is also necessary to focus on safety, the working environment, the environment and good resource management in the design of ships.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e541	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e544	As you know, the fishing industry is the second largest export industry we have. It's the grievance that a large part of the products go unprocessed or little processed into the international market. There may be reason to ask the representative, Mr Enoxsen, what is most important in the time to come – there are many things that are important, but there is sometimes a need for priority. Is it to achieve a greater degree of further processing, so that more of the value creation is left in Norway than what we have today? Given that the answer to that is yes, the question is how to achieve it, whether it is by maintaining almost dense bulkheads between fish and industry, or by trying to get an approximation so that it becomes – as it really is – that fish and industry are in the same boat; it would be an advantage if they messed up the same road. The question to the representative Enoksen is then: Is the representative of Enoksen's interpretation of the setting that it broke the message on the question of long-term appointments? I do believe that the setting will allow for an exception that must be followed up – something that the message did not do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e551	On the question of what's most important in the future, I actually don't think there are any simple answers. Further processing is not necessarily a keyword here. Ensuring good jobs and ensuring profitability in industry are, as I said at the outset in my lecture, the main priority areas of the Government, and it must be. There is a need for resource management and research on the resource situation to be central. We see that, unlike in many other countries, we have a relatively good resource situation. We have to take care of this and develop it further, because it is the basis for the entire profitability and development opportunities in the industry. The working party and the centre parties are in charge of most of this, including the issue of cooperation between industry and fishermen. I don't think we're going anywhere without taking care of what has traditionally been the situation in the fishing industry, that you see that there is mutual dependence between the fleet side and the industry side where they live in a symbiosis that you can't break. The discussion of long-term agreements, or the principle of reduction, is and has to a very small extent been a problem that has hampered the positive development of this industry. I believe that, through the majority vote, the Committee has facilitated positive developments in this area too. So I'm interpreting the setting in the same way as Opseth: it's going to be possible to have long-term agreements. This shall be capable of creating long-term and safe industrial and fleet relations. I do not believe that it stands in contrast to what has been mentioned in St.meld. No 51 for 1997-98.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e560	Odd Roger Enoksen was a little in the market in his main post. It was so predictable. I just want to say that in this way, I am pleased that the Senter Party has a fisheries minister who seems to have understood the industry's need for maximum market access. In the case of the unit allowance scheme, I did not register that Enoch mentioned this scheme. In my opinion, the unit quota scheme is a good tool for increasing industry profitability and also for improving structural adjustment. I've understood that the Center Party is going in to expand the unit quota arrangements in the case of the marine fleet, but not in the case of the coastal fleet. So my question to Enoxen is: why does the Senterpartiet not want to give the coastal fleet as good growth and development conditions – while at the same time contributing to better structural adjustment in the coastal fleet – as the sea fishing fleet?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e567	Firstly, I noticed that the right does not want unit quota schemes. Right-hand wants strictly negotiable allowances. When the Right wishes to liquidate the 13-year rule, where the allowances are to fall back into the Community 13 years after entering a unit allowance scheme, there is no longer any need to maintain unit allowances. This is when we talk about strictly negotiable quotas, which will lead to major structural changes in the Norwegian fishing industry. I also noticed – if I did not hear errors – that the representative Ivar Kristiansen said in his post that they wanted to liquidate the restrictions on the possibility of transferring allowances between ship groups. If I heard right, this also means a dramatic different fisheries policy from that proposed by the majority of the committee. It is true that the Centre Party does not wish to extend the unit quota arrangements to the coastal fleet. We believe that we should have a fleet where there is diversity, a fishing gear fleet, and that we should use instruments other than the unit quota arrangements for adjustments within that fleet. The Minister for Fisheries has called for an extension of the unit quota arrangements to ship groups other than those previously covered. I think that's positive. However, we believe that the coastal fishing fleet should not be included. We're going to have a fleet where we're going to use, as I said, other instruments to adjust the capacity than to collect quotas on ever fewer hands.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e576	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e579	To put it that way with the National Committee for the words of North Norway: ‘The Regional Committee will stress that at times there may be a conflict between the objectives of the fisheries policy.’ They also refer to the regional policy objectives pursued by the Storting and say: ‘Acts that can strengthen employment in the districts and hence their settlement will therefore be important to focus’. In this field, the perspective message is pointless – unfortunately. It would have been more fruitful to take on board the objectives of the fisheries policy from the beginning of the 1980s: the main features of the housing pattern must be preserved; the resource base must be protected; people must be guaranteed safe and good jobs must be increased; the real profitability of the fishing industry must be increased; The perspective message and the settings we're dealing with become very general, not very precise and therefore diffuse, yes pointless. Therefore, it is essentially an overall committee position, except that the Right Party and the Advance Party show their keener admiration for capital intensive fishing. There is no achievement in agreeing on the importance of fisheries, that there is a national common resource to be managed in a profitable way for the benefit of coastal communities and that it should be done in a sustainable way. It is, of course, easy to agree that we need to have an allocation of allowances that stimulates long-term planning. What I miss is, what does that mean? How do we do that? It is not that the capital-intensive fleet, supported by SND, is the most profitable. It is also not the most resource- or environmentally friendly. It is also not the one that ensures the housing pattern. Why don't the Committee majority, or at least the minority from the centre, say something more precise about the role of the coastal fleet? Why do not the central parties, as they said in the Adult Declaration, say that it is the coastal fleet together with a flexible fishing industry of small and medium-sized plants that provides the highest value creation and employment in fisheries? Have they forgotten that wording? Where has it become of the objective ‘A central government will introduce free fishing for boats below 10 metres’? We have not heard of this since the Waxenå Declaration. This is also a question of general law. An exceptional state has become a normal state, without a fundamental debate. The right to fish has been undermined. The legal side of this is interesting. It will be interesting to see the Norwegian result now that we have seen the judgment in the Icelandic Supreme Court. I will confirm that last year I was a little optimistic, perhaps for no good reason. In the fishing permit page on 29 October there was an article entitled ‘Showing the Committee on the Coastal Way’. During a consultation session, the Economic and Social Committee had met with the father and son Wold of Andeans, who had given the Committee a lesson on the excellence of the coastal fleet, which was apparently so good that the conclusions of the first four days of the hearing had to be reviewed, according to the interview. Until then, the Committee had met the capital-intensive part, representatives of the large industry and the seagoing fleet. Father and son Wold had given the Committee a lesson on the coastal fleet such as the fleet group which has the least capital input, the greatest employment, the least energy consumption and the least overcapacity. It is the fleet that is best suited to deliver to the coveted fresh fish market, which is best suited for the exploitation of the by-products and which is best suited for the supply of live fish to aquaculture in the broadest sense. Unfortunately, it does not seem that the impression has been attached in the long term. It's been a long time between October and February. Or has the committee just not dared to attach it to the paper – that in the important areas of objective it is this fleet that in a way meets the objectives that are generally agreed upon? Because then it would well have been in the setting something more precise about what was the bet area, and what should be built down. Taking into account the objectives of coastal communities, of settlement, of sustainable resource extraction seriously, the majority of committees should say something more precisely, for example. that on-board production should be reduced. It is a form of fishing and production that does not have any of the intended objectives for coastal communities. It is a form of catch and production that undermines the coast. Then it should have been said that the beam jet fleet, which for every kilogram of fish they land, has thrown between 7 and 14 kilograms, and in addition destroys the seabed, should be bent as quickly as possible. Then it should have been said that we need a reduction in the seagoing fleet and a bet on the coastal fleet. The seagoing fleet has increased its share of fishing resources at the expense of the coastal fleet. They represent the lobby power. They represent the power of money. An increasing share of fishing resources is contributing to the cost of increased capital costs and other determined costs. It is not the case that the seagoing fleet now ensures land production, because very much of what they catch, leaves the country uncultivated. It is not enough to say that the allocation of allowances must be maintained over time, so that it really becomes a tool that stimulates structural adjustment and long-term planning. The Committee should also say what structural adjustment, because it takes the coastal communities, sustainable resource extraction and the environment seriously, does not matter what kind of structural adjustment is being made. In one area, the Committee is more precise, and it is that they will invest in the coastal fleet of between 15 and 34 metres. But everything suggests that it is not at the expense of the seagoing fleet, but at the expense of the smaller, coastal fleet. Why? Is it so that the coastal fleet of between 15 and 34 meters is the most profitable, which is the one with the best local anchoring? What is the reason why the smaller coastal fleet might be built up? Because I'm afraid that will be the result. Is it not that between 10 and 15 metres that actually has an affordable capital requirement and a good adaptability when resources are fluctuating – and, if possible, when between 15 and 34 metres, does it have to be at the expense of the seagoing fleet? Then it should have been. There's a lot of sides here that you might want to pick up, for example. tax patterns. You should have mentioned it by closing the field where there is a lot of young fish – been a little more offensive about such things – and sending boats over 28 meters outside the 12-mile limit. Perhaps one should also have gone through if not scurvy from technological development should have been regulated as trawls. When I see this with the dispensation rules regarding ownership, I feel that what should be a derogation, in other words an exception, is becoming normal in terms of ownership. What we are experiencing now is that the increased activity requirements will have retroactive effect, which means that the boats will lose their quota. Strengthening the activity requirement may be appropriate, but retroactive effects may be wrong. It's hard to fix what happened last year. And then who's going to get these subtracted quotas? It should be a clear policy that it went to recruitment quotas. In the form of proposals, SV has addressed some specific problems. The Committee points out that there is a problem with the island of Greenland. I agree. But we should not bypass the man-made problems either, for example. trawlers destroy coral reefs that are important breeding zones for fish stocks, or drafts as a problem where the beam trawls are stowed. I think you should have gone into such things more and said that we have to clean up our own backyard – or we should say our own waters. Not least when we're going to be critical of other countries' predatory fishing, it's important that we clean up the sea. I agree with the representative Ivar Kristiansen, who was here saying that the behaviour of Norwegian boats in distant waters is important to have a critical relationship with and intervene against. Then we have what everyone agrees on, namely, breeding, where you have very great opportunities to develop things, not least a broader range of species of fish, where we also have to make demands in terms of quality and the environment. And then we might also have to take a debate on the delusion that as far as possible is the best possible. I see that the time runs out for me, the red lamp comes on immediately. But it can also do for Coast Norway if we leave the market forces raw. For the anarchy of the market, natural laws are not adapted. Nor is it suited to the adaptation of coastal people to nature. That is why I think it is important in terms of fisheries policy, that we do not make it a matter of buying and selling, but that we regulate it so that we take care of the resources, take care of the coastal community that is so productive and that creates such great values. Let me finally address the proposals that have been distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e651	Inge Myrvoll has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e656	Myrvoll, in his speech, makes quite a number of comments that he does not seem to be particularly specific either in terms of programming or in terms of the Committee's position, and that the fisheries policy is becoming too diffuse. Now you have heard Myrvoll's articles, and also seen the suggestions that SV takes up. I do not think that the three proposals that SV is promoting in this matter would make the fisheries policy more specific and, in particular, more clear, if the Stortinge should join them. Myrvoll also makes a great point of the target debate that has been in relation to the notification and the target debate that the Committee has had in relation to the vote. There is no doubt that Myrvoll is entitled to focus more strongly on economic profitability in the new target formulations established by the suspension. But what Myrvoll says in a way is that with a stronger focus on economic profitability, this is in contrast to focusing on housing. And it seems that SV is also trying to follow up in their proposal. I believe that there is quite a broad consensus in this Chamber that it is an objective to have a non-subsidized industry at least. If you're going to be able to secure long-term housing, I'm going to think that the only way you can really secure housing is by ensuring an economically sustainable industry. Because if you do not have an economically sustainable industry, you will have a residence that depends on annual government subsidies. That, I think, is a very crazy development for such an important industry as the fishing industry. My question to Myrvoll must be: Does Myrvoll think that there is a contrast between focusing on economic profitability and focusing on housing?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e667	First of all, I agree with the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, that the proposals that have been put forward do not necessarily give the very big perspectives. I actually thought when I presented the proposals today, that I should present something that I then had the opportunity to be adopted, and not proposals that I expected would be voted down. That was actually a little bit of the idea behind the suggestions. Otherwise, I agree with Hanssen's statement that profitability and housing could actually work well. But what's startled me a little bit is that in a lot of ways you've squeezed a lot of money into what I think is the most unprofitable part of the industry, that's the seagoing part. I actually think that you've been prioritizing mistakes for years, and I'm afraid you're going to keep doing that. The objective of a non-subsidized industry is fully agreed, and a coastal fleet investment may be a good strategy to maintain a non-subsidised industry, to put it that way. A lot of public money has been spent building up overcapacity on the seagoing fleet, and it makes me skeptical. I'm afraid you're going to continue with it, when you're as unpresisive as you are, both in the message and in the comments. In principle, we agree on the objectives. We may agree on how to achieve the objectives and want to have a non-subsidized and profitable industry. But I'm afraid that the majority think differently than I do when it comes to what's the most profitable, what's the most sustainable, what's the most environmentally friendly, and what's the best care for the housing pattern. There I might be on a collision course with the majority. If I'm wrong, I'm very happy about that, but I have problems reading it out of the message, so I'm afraid that now you're just continuing a development that's been going on for a long time, and that's actually been a crazy development in relation to Coast Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e676	When leading party persons give a familiar general view of the fishing industry, some point of view invites further thought. We hear from time to time the emphasis on the possibilities of selling unprocessed fish to a large extent – both marketing and selling skin and bone, as it is a bit of a joke. Nevertheless, it will be that the processed fish product is and will be important for employment in District Norway. We know that customs duties are a monthly economic threshold for the marketing of processed fish products against Europe. We've understood it so that the government can think of renegotiating the EEA terms when it comes to fish. My question to SV must be whether this party has countermeasures to such an initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e684	First of all, I must say that I prefer the cod to the croquets, and I prefer the sage to the panettes. It is clear that unprocessed fish have the best quality, but at the same time there are also a number of good processed products. The most worrying thing is that what is being processed, what is not sold by the very best quality, which is unprocessed, is not processed in Norway, but sent elsewhere for processing. I want the best possible agreement for Norwegian fisheries, but I also need to look at the price you might have to pay in other areas and compare them. I think it is very easy to agree in general that good framework conditions for the export of Norwegian fish and fish products all want to have. If anyone can come up with a better deal than the one we have, without the price in other areas being too high, I have nothing against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e693	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e696	Today, we have to consider how to facilitate continued positive developments in Norway’s second largest export industry, an industry with a high potential for continued value creation. It is perhaps Norway’s most complex and, at the same time, the most permeable industry. There is an industry with overcapacity at the fishing and industrial stages, but despite a strong need for fleet and landside renewal. It is an industry that, like many other industries, needs to intensify recruitment and that depends on skills and skilled professionals. It is an industry that must be willing to invest even more in research in cooperation with the public. There is an industry which has, in part, strong internal tensions between different operators and ship groupings. And it's an industry that requires vigilance and being led was, so the biological basis is not destroyed. The list of such moments could have been further extended, but it is impossible for a party that has only five minutes, and that is very committed to the industry, to have all the areas illuminated. The fishing industry is a district industry. I want to add as an overall objective that it still has to be a district industry, because it is in the districts the competence is, and where the competence is, will also be the main foundation for profitability. Therefore, a profitable fishing industry with stable and predictable framework conditions will be the safest and most important guarantee of maintaining the scattered settlement we have along the coast. With stable framework conditions, of course adapted to the resource situation, fishermen themselves will also address capacity-reduction schemes, for example. unit quota schemes. It should be stressed that the Committee is unanimous in recommending that the allocation of quotas between groups, seas and coasts should be maintained over time. This is important in order to achieve the necessary structural adjustment and long-term planning. Otherwise, the Left is also pleased that the Committee agrees that the distinction between sea and coastal fishing on the length of a vessel is not a good parameter. Other parameters must be omitted. Often it is the case that boats over, for example, 28 metres and less than 28 metres of fish with the same gear and then a division after the length of a vessel becomes very artificial. The result is often that paragraph boats arise, and often have these unfortunate designs, not least in relation to resource use. Left wants a varied and fishing fleet. We want a varied fleet because one can then best exploit the potential of the industry and be optimal, both in close waters for the harvesting of local fish stocks and in remote waters for the exploitation of marine resources. The left will have a fishing gear fleet because this is a guarantee to maintain a varied and localid fishing fleet. For this reason, the Left is part of the majority who will have a continuation of the principle in the participant law, as opposed to the Right and the Advance Party. The left is also a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which believes that the Raw Fish Act is a very appropriate instrument for regulating the first-hand placing on the market of fish. The sale has a major societal task through control and reporting of fish. This is important at a time when the pressure on resource extraction is increasing. Otherwise, the auctioning principle is a transparent, fair and healthy commercial principle. This system allows the land industry to bid for raw materials in equal competition with others. This business-healthy principle I record that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not endorse it. It also means that different operators in the industry do the best they can: fishermen fish; the food industry. In the case of fleet renewal, this is a major task with an average age fleet of 23 years. This government, with the Minister for Fisheries, has already taken positive action, for example. the removal of the investment framework. There is also a strong willingness to improve the framework conditions through increased contractual support when the budgetary situation so requires. Otherwise, there are clear messages from the Committee that tax and financial instruments need to be reviewed and improved, and that is positive. Now I'm running out of time, but I also want to stress the importance of what is in the communication on research and development, and that there will be key factors in the future with a view to improving the value base and the potential of industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e715	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e718	I am glad that there is such a big deal in the setting of St.meld. No 51 on the prospects for future fisheries. The fact that the Right Party and the Progress Party have a more liberal view of how fisheries management should be is not so strange. I have a few questions for Leif Helge Kongshaug. We were at a meeting in More and Romesdal yesterday with the fishing industry, and it was claimed that the seagoing fleet of the West is being built, while the coastal fleet is still growing. Is this a problem that Leif and Leif Helge Kongshaug have raised? Similarly, I would like to mention that the contracting support, which is distributed via SND, is currently at a low level. As we know, the central government reduced this support by approx. Ten million. kr in the State budget for this year. The Committee, which is also a member of the Left Group, has pointed out that we have a very old fishing fleet that needs renewal – the oldest boats are 23 years old. Will Left and Leif Helge Kongshaug contribute to the increase in these government rights this year, and already in the revised national budget? The left was in his post with the paragraph boats. I am very afraid that the limitation that one has when it comes to the construction of boats between 15 and 30 meters can cause us to have a number of paragraph boats that in many ways can be a security risk in the fishing fleet. Would the Left be involved in this development and take it seriously, not least because of the safety of the fishing fleet?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e729	Seagoing fleets versus coastal fleets are a general problem. As I said in my post, I think Norway needs a varied fleet. We need ships in both groups. Not least because there may actually be new populations along the Norwegian coast that can be exploited better than today, we need the coastal fleet. We also need the seagoing fleet, as I said in my post. In order to pick up the resources that are far out, it is the type of boats that are needed. But that we have overcapacity in the seagoing fleet is a fact – that’s why we have unit quota arrangements, among other things. in the case of ring note. In the case of the coastal fleet, one should be aware that it should not become too large either, as the profitability will also fall in that fleet. So this is a problem that has to be weighed all the time. It is important that the fisheries organisations are on the track and state their views on the allocation of resources between the two groups of vessels. With regard to SND and the framework, it is well known that when industry has now been profitable, with a need for major renewal, there is also a greater demand for contracting subsidies — and the framework is too small. We recognize that. It is a problem for those who sit and will distribute the small frames among equal applicants. The specific question to me was whether I would be working to increase the appropriations for contracting aid already in the revised budget. Of course, I want to work on it – I am very concerned about that – but if I get a pass, it is a different matter. I wish I had.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e743	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e746	Norway's foremost advantage lies in our proximity to one of the world's most productive fishing areas plus that we have the cleanest coast in the world. The development of interesting, stable and well-paid jobs throughout the fishing industry will therefore be one of the main contributions in order to ensure housing and living conditions. Increasing knowledge of this industry will also contribute to increasing values. Increased knowledge and cooperation between industry, research and management will give rise to greater economic elimination. This is particularly important when uncertainty has been created about the size of populations today, such as the United Kingdom, Germany and the United Kingdom. cod and haze. Quotaut will be dramatic especially for North Norway, which is so unilaterally dependent on the fish. Technology has given us opportunities to absorb food resources in the sea, which can fish the sea empty. It can be dramatic for food production in the world, and Norway has a special responsibility here. A sustainable resource management must be a fundamental prerequisite for all fishing activities, but industry also depends on the allocation of resources in such a way as to provide good profitability. The development of international markets with enhanced power to trade chains and the development of global trade in fish and fishery products have led to a strong increase in market challenges. There is therefore a need for a significantly stronger market orientation in all parts of the industry. There is a particular challenge in increasing the recruitment of young people to the industry. After the new education reform, much of the recruitment has to take place through the higher education system. There is time to review the appropriateness of the current organisation of fisheries training at the basic level. It is appropriate to consider combining all fisheries-oriented training in a basic course. Decentralised services at higher education level may also be relevant for some areas of the country. A varied fishing fleet, mainly owned by active fishermen, is the best guarantee for maintaining the main features of today's settlement structure. A variety of fishing fleets, both in terms of vessel size and tooling, will make the most of our fishing resources, while at the same time the land-based fishing industry will have a relatively even supply of raw materials. The fact that, as a general principle, fishermen own the vessels is the best guarantee of maximum profitability at different stages of the industry and thus of the total fishing industry. The fishing industry has great potential for development and needs more bones to stand on – here, farming and shellfish can contribute to increased value creation. For example, shields are: an important product in the seafood industry and the Norwegian shellfish industry has undergone major changes in recent years. Significant competences have been developed in several environments both in terms of production and market experience. There needs to be better cooperation between the different actors in order to increase the level of competence. The disembarkation that takes place along large sections of the coast will be a challenge we need to tackle more strongly in order to achieve the development of the fishing industry that we need. It's where larger values can be created. In particular, this applies to women. Women take education and move. There is a clear need for women at all levels of the fishing industry. Women need motivation both from businesses and from us as authorities to become residents or come back to the coast to help develop new jobs. In order to stabilise the share of women on the coast, social conditions such as good childcare services, good child growth conditions, recreational and well-being measures in general, an acceptable extended service provision and a well-developed infrastructure in the local environment must also be present. Women are clearly needed at all levels of the fishing industry. Women have a diversity of skills and experience that will contribute to the development of the industry in a positive direction. Therefore, it is so important to provide women with professional opportunities at all stages of the industry, not only at the «philthene». Different and interesting jobs are also important for women. We all have a responsibility to make education and career opportunities visible also to women in the fishing industry. The result may be a growth for the industry on which society will benefit from the use of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e761	The entire Committee is concerned with the market situation of the farming industry and is united in a proposal asking the Government to develop strategies to improve market access for Norwegian farmed fish in the various markets. This is very positive. It's important to focus on this. It is also positive that an overall committee underlines the importance of being briefed by the Ministry on the competitiveness of the aquaculture industry and market challenges in the annual budget proposals. Of many measures to protect industry from foreign competition, anti-dumping is perhaps the most effective and sophisticated. In Norway, the farming industry in particular has made it feel this way on the body. The imposition by the United States of dumping duties on imports of Norwegian salmon in 1991 led to virtually annihilation from the U.S. market overnight. The EU has brought dumping proceedings against Norway three times in the last 10 years. However, instead of imposing a dumping charge on Norwegian salmon, the dumping threat has been used as a breaker bar to apply a battery of measures to the industry, both in the form of trade barriers and voluntary or self-imposed production regulations that are likely to be lacking in world trade. The overall impact of these measures has significantly weakened the competitiveness of the salmon industry, and it is estimated by some to be reduced by nearly 40 pst. While the dumping instrument can of course be used in a factual manner to protect against unfair competition, the calculation of dumping margins is often a mere hazard to give legitimacy to pure and unimpeded protectionism. You can ask yourself how Norwegian salmon has ended up in such a mess. Of course, much can be explained by the fact that Norway is a small country and that we are not in the EU. But that's one too simple and just a partial explanation. I think a lot of the explanation is that we haven't realized that market access in world trade is not something that comes of itself. It must be fought for, and can only be secured through a nine-time, long-term and proactive information and commercial policy work. This must not only take place sporadicly at political and authority level after the problems have arisen. It is too late to respond when a dumping case has been initiated. The industry must involve itself and work slowly directly against politicians, civil servants, the media, consumer organisations and other stakeholder organisations. Despite 10 years of protectionism on the part of the EU, the farming industry does not yet have a single representative in Brussels. Nor does there exist such a thing as a national strategy and action plan on how to bring the dumping regimes to life, as well as ensuring that no corresponding trade barriers are raised against Norwegian salmon in the new markets that are laboriously built in the Far East and Eastern Europe. As the Progress Party sees it, the Norwegian authorities must know their visitation time and play along with the industry. Norway must require the removal of anti-dumping measures during the WTO round of negotiations. That must be an absolute requirement. If there is a counterclaim in the negotiations that Norway should allow for greater imports of agricultural products, we in the Progress Party believe that this should be accepted. This should actually be a matter of course for a small country like Norway, which is dependent on an open economy where we have the advantage of selling competitive fish products and buying agricultural products, which improves households' finances.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e778	There have been many good words in this debate on the importance of fishing both in terms of employment and in terms of coastal settlement. That's all for this reason, because fortunately, fishing is something more than a clean resource out of the sea. Modern fishing has evolved into a viable and competitive food industry, which in recent years has grown to become its main export industry for oil and gas, with a total export value of nearly DKK 30 billion. I think it is quite remarkable that the Committee has succeeded in reaching a high degree of consensus in many of the important aspects of the principle of fisheries policy guidelines and prospects for this industry in the future. It shall be commended by the committee chairman and the rapporteur. Such broad consensus on key issues is, of course, also a major strength for industry, thus providing a basis for greater predictability and stability in the framework conditions. This is something that all the industries want. Now I read correctly in Bergen’s Official Journal that Jan Petersen, in the County Year Meeting of Sogn and Fjordane Right, kicked to the perspective message that we now have to deal with, and calls it a pointless one. There is a language that does not match any of the words on the right in this setting. On the contrary, both the Right and the Advance Party support important formulations on Norwegian fisheries policy as an overall committee. Where the Right Party and the Advance Party object, fishing turnover and regulation are largely concerned, including: as expressed in the Act of Participation and the Law of Raw Fish. There are well-known positions where we recognize both the Progress Party and the Right. But the Right does not want to abolish either the Act or the Law on Raw Fish. They want to make some adjustments, and those are positions we have to be able to live with. Although there has been a useful performance in most fisheries in recent years, there are still some dark clouds threatening the horizon. Sea resources are highly mobile – they cross borders and seek different depths in the sea, they are vulnerable to over-taxation and can be threatened by pollution. All of this requires extensive international interaction to prevent the disappearance of resource capital itself as a result of excessive withdrawals and/or illicit dumping of environmental pollutants. I have noted in particular the concern that is now very much felt about small cod catches, which are clearly below a reasonable minimum and thus threatens the subsequent uptake of mature fish, for example. Cry. I would like to stress strongly the Committee's request that Norway step up its efforts in the international context in order to put an end to this ludicrous fishing. In the North Sea, the result of many years of overfishing is now noticeable, which means that one does not get the necessary profitability in the fishing industry, which can both secure income and at the same time allow for the necessary provisions for the renewal of gear and boats. This could have a negative impact on the recruitment of the profession in the next round. The Government receives a strong and comprehensive request from the Committee to place significant emphasis on setting management issues related to the North Sea fisheries resources on the agenda of fisheries cooperation with the EU. I'd like to underline that. Significant attention must also be paid to securing the most secure knowledge of both the resource base and the changes that occur at sea due to environmental emissions, climate change and resource withdrawals. It is becoming increasingly important to ensure that this is followed up by the necessary research efforts both nationally and in international cooperation. It says about the future of this important coastal industry. In the case of the aquaculture industry, which was also the last to speak of, this is an industry of significant development, where the possibility of profitable production will depend on rational operation and satisfactory market access. Experience in salmon production has given valuable competence to develop the aquaculture industry to include new species, both fish and shellfish. We have natural prerequisites to create profitable activities along large sections of the coast, but we need enough to look at how production equipment and market apparatus can be adapted and improved in order to create competitive businesses. The main issue will be market access and how future trade regimes will shape a regulatory framework for international trade in fish. Here, Norwegian authorities must play an active role in preventing the development of artificial protection systems that serve only purely protectionist purposes and are not in line with general commercial policy rules and regimes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e798	Today’s setting shows a relatively broad consensus on the main lines of Norwegian fisheries policy. There is a consensus that has come after the Center Party has added much of the party political profiling that we heard about before the party came into government position. The development of the fishing industry is of major national interest. To meet the growing welfare and pension obligations and the expected reduction in petroleum revenues some years in time, we need to increase the value creation of non-oil and gas-based parts of Norwegian industry. The fishing industry is Norway's largest export industry, except in the petroleum sector. Export value is increasing. The industry has great potential for growth. It is based on a renewable resource. All this speaks for the industry to and must play a key role in the Norwegian economy. This was also the background for the start of the Jagland government and the launch of a big message on increased value creation in the fishing industry. I am pleased that the new government has built on this work. Nevertheless, it is a weakness that the communication discusses issues too much without drawing conclusions, and that it addresses some of the most difficult issues. The most important part of this Communication, however, is that it sees the fishing industry in a value chain perspective where all stages are part of a whole, and where one starts from the market challenges and not from the raw material, as a traditional one has done. It is no small admission by a central party council, and in line with the thinking of the previous government. It is also in line with the approach of the previous government that the notification rewords the objective of the fisheries policy. As a former fisheries minister, I set as an objective that Norway should become the world's leading fishing nation. I am pleased that the Committee also sees this as an objective. So the first thing we have to recognize is that we need knowledge. The fishing industry is more than most others, a knowledge-based industry. The marine industry is entirely based on research. There are plenty of opportunities to develop new species. There are rich opportunities in biotechnology. And above all, see how dependent we are on knowledge to manage marine resources in a sustainable way. We therefore need a national boost for marine research, mainly because it will be very profitable, but also because we have an international responsibility as one of the world's leading fishing nations. The Labour Party has therefore proposed a national research fund in which marine research should be one of three priority areas. At the same time, the industry itself must take greater responsibility for the financing of research and development. A statutory R & D levy should therefore be introduced in the industry. The principle decision to impose such a charge, which must be earmarked and must to a large extent be governed by the industry itself, should now be made and not be pushed out further in time, as the Government unfortunately proposes. We must recognise that the value creation of the fishing industry has two critical factors: the resource base and the market. Sustainable resource management is a prerequisite for all activities. But it's our ability to align production against paying markets that determine how much economic value we can create on the basis of resources. We need to gain a better knowledge of market developments. We need to ensure greater market access. We need to increase efforts in market labour. Overall, we need to have a stronger market orientation in all parts of the industry – including in the administration. The market has now changed to a global trade in fish and fishery products. At the same time, the power to buy fish products is increasingly concentrated. In most countries, there is a strong concentration in a few trade chains. Safe and regular deliveries of a product are increasingly required over a longer period of time. It coincides with another crucial factor. Industry needs to increase its profitability if it is to be able to meet the new market challenges and to adapt to ever-increasing market requirements. The smooth use of production equipment will be important in order to achieve better profitability. Therefore, both in order to guarantee regular deliveries and to achieve a level playing field in production equipment, industry depends on the smooth supply of raw materials. At the same time, even production will provide more stable jobs. A smooth supply of raw material is an important reason why there is a need for a significant renewal and upgrade of the fleet. The importance of raw material for shore-based industries is also an important reason why on-board production needs to be limited, and also that we should limit the size of merchant vessels that are located as floating, mobile industrial establishments. I am also concerned that a strong build-up of new freezer stores in places where this is not part of a processing plant can help to weaken the industry's raw material supply. There are strong reasons why access to long-term supply agreements between fleets and industry should be made more real. The minimum price must, of course, be at the bottom. We must have systems to ensure the ability of the very smallest vessels to deliver in the event of problems of reception. However, strong reasons suggest that a long-term delivery contract as a general rule must also give the fisherman a delivery advantage that cannot be set aside. The majority of the Committee now asks for an assessment of these issues. It is an important basic principle that active fishermen should own their own boats. The use of long-term supply agreements may reduce industry’s need and desire to own own boats. It is equally up-to-date that many sites — including large industrial sites — do not have a large home fleet or capital invested in large fishing vessels that can secure raw material for the industry on land. At the same time as the main rule of a fishing gear fleet is established, there are strong reasons for flexible practice of the exemption provisions. Derogation from the general rule for the sea fishing fleet must be possible where necessary in order to contribute to the viable fishing environment, to maintain the geographical distribution of fishing authorisations and to increase the possibility of value creation in the interaction between the fleet and the industry on land. This must also apply to parts of the sea fishing fleet other than freshwater trawlers. In the notification, the Ministry states that for other parts of the sea fishing fleet, derogations shall be granted only in cases where there are no local stakeholders who are active fishermen. This is more stringent than the practices of current political leadership itself. It should be noted that the Committee did not agree to this restriction. The majority of the Committee believes that the Ministry should be able to grant a derogation on the basis of an assessment in relation to the purposes I have just mentioned. So it's not a prerequisite that there are no local stakeholders who are active fishermen. I assume that the Council of State agrees that the Department has received a wider scope of action than they have requested, by understanding that there is now a general dispensation right for the entire fleet of the sea, where each application is assessed against the objectives mentioned by the Committee in the nomination. The scattered settlement along the coast is based on the fact that we have a decentralised structure in the reception and processing of the raw material. This must be passed on. The challenge, however, will be how to combine a decentralised and varied structure with the need for greater economic power, greater capacity for research and development efforts and greater ability for market intervention in industrial enterprises. The question is whether this requires a stronger interaction between enterprises, either through ownership superstructures or through networks. In order to develop the Norwegian fishing industry, we need access to capital. In my view, it is desirable that heavy Norwegian investors also see the possibilities for developing the fishing industry. Nor should we see it as a problem that we get some fish industry group that has some muscles when they meet the international trade chains. On the contrary, we talk a lot to stimulate a certain muscle building, whether it's through ownership integration or networks. We need a differentiated industry. Similarly, the Workers' Party has made it clear that we want a differentiated fishing fleet. The coastal fleet is the backbone of the industry. At the same time, it must be stressed that we need and space for both trawlers and jacks. In recent years we have seen a change in the structure of the fishing fleet, with an increasing share of vessels below 13 m and a decreasing share of larger coastal vessels. This worries me. The fleet has become more dependent on the availability of the fish. The raw material supply to the industry is more uncertain. We need a coastal fleet that can meet new and increased demands on the working environment and safety and that can contribute to the increased recruitment of young fishermen. We need a coastal fleet that can meet the raw material processing and quality requirements. We therefore need to get more major coastal fishing vessels, especially in the 15-34 metres group. This must be done without an increase in the total capacity. Policy instruments must therefore be targeted in this respect. Increased profitability both in the fishing fleet and in the fishing industry is a key challenge for industry. We need to reduce costs in the industry so that we can maintain our competitiveness. Several of the regulations currently in existence in the industry, which have gradually come into existence, have adverse effects on costs and therefore need to be reviewed. More and more of the value creation of the fishing fleet and the fishing industry are being moved from the core business to the supplier industry. This also means that if we are to increase value creation, we need to pay greater attention to developing the Norwegian supplier industry. Here we see considerable differences in the different parts of the industry, Norway is well advanced in the supply of equipment to the fishing fleet and the aquaculture sector, while equipment supplies to the fishing industry are minimal. The aim must be to develop a comprehensive fishing industry cluster — a comprehensive Norwegian seafood industry. Then we have to look at the quaikant towards farming, industry and the market. We also need to look beyond what we traditionally call the fishing industry, and at the overall value creation that the industry represents in interacting with others. Only then can we develop the total potential that the industry represents.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e861	The fishing industry has its basic status as export industry after each basic fixation. 2, but more and more questions whether the potential is not much larger than the numbers currently indicated. Gross sales, however, are not the only parameters of an industry that goes well. Wages and salaries from a net perspective would now give a more nuanced image and point to a great potential for improvement. Lack of efficiency in managing and adapting capacity destroys the base rate in many ways in a divisional game between capture and processing into the market. The increased use of unit quotas would, of course, have a beneficial effect. Of course, some of the capacity-adjustment problem can be attributed to the fact that the size of allowable withdrawals of the same resource varies year by year. What has been raised beyond doubt, however, is that a rapidly growing cell population will soon be able to compete with the Norwegian fisherman in the quantity of requested resources. This is a formidable problem which is not entirely safe to deal with. Another factor is that the stock of cells reduces the quality of the residue of fish that he left to be taken as human food. The reason for this is that, as we know, a large parasite problem is that parasites are transferred from the same cell population. Of course, the Perpective Notice and the setting of these laws also apply to the law on raw fish and the law on participants — something else would be unthinkable with regard to the status of these laws in the fisheries industry. Over time, we have seen a certain development from a traditional, flexible and less capital-intensive fishing industry – flexible even when it comes to employment – to enterprises with a stronger industrial character with rising capital and continuity requirements. This is also seen in the earlier legislation under a certain modernisation pressure. The requirements to ensure long-term voluntary supply agreements between the fishing stage and the processing stage should take from the perspective of their ability to terminate such agreements. The salsa's sovereignty and monopoly situation should be replaced by voluntary membership, equivalent negotiations and stand-alone mediation bodies for fixing the minimum price of fish. Deltakarlova passes Odelstinget today, as we know. Here I would just like to stress that the Right's view of ownership of the fishing fleet over 70 feet is that it should be opened so that the fishing industry is no longer bounded by the current 50 pst rule. In our view, the proposal for tightening up the requirements for activity is absolutely lacking a sustainable basis. However, it may be a point of view that the fishing environment is close to a real, exciting and functioning market, and that a vertically integrated fisheries sector may be able to reduce this value. Therefore, we also want an impact assessment of removing the activity requirement of the Act, and not, as the Progress Party wishes, to terminate the Act without delay. I also record that the committee in the setting uses two-three sentences associated with the division. Keywords are locations for housing and women's workplaces. There is reason to stress here that safe and effective quality control of the shell product will raise this special breeding industry to dimensions that it has not been possible to think about at present. Finally, I have registered a certain amazement with a former speaker about Jan Petersen's presentation of the perspective message. My task here is to point out that there is a difference between the message and the setting from time to time. There have been many attempts at tightening up, many of them also successful, through the Committee's work, and therefore the setting may qualify for a better quality than the government's message.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e884	In connection with Stortinget's treatment of St.prp. No 58 for 1995-96, the following decision was taken: ‘The size calls on the Government to provide the Storting with an appropriate review of the development potential of the fisheries industry and the challenges facing the fishing industry.’ I have noticed that the committee also wants a review of the farming industry, where one draws up the long-term strategies. I see this as a natural follow-up in a continuous effort to facilitate increased growth and value creation throughout the fishing industry, and will come back to it gradually. The challenge of the fishing industry is to be a forward-looking industry that contributes to job security and to the fishing communities. The industry has all grown into one of our largest export industries, and has an important place in the Norwegian economy. The acquisition of knowledge through R & D activity is a crucial prerequisite for the sustainability of the potential for increased value creation. Last year's growth in the fishing industry includes, inter alia: achieved through research and development efforts, which have increased productivity year by year. A forward-looking investment in this field requires research-based resource management and high-technology investment in a number of key areas. An improvement in the trade policy framework conditions to which the fishing industry is subject may lead to a significant increase in employment and value creation. A key challenge in this context will be to manage the markets for fish and fish products in a good way. The priority areas of marine research and development are therefore research aimed at product and process development, better overall use of the raw material and development of market knowledge. The debate has raised questions relating to the forthcoming WTO negotiations. I can assure you that the Government proposes that there should be wide-ranging negotiations so that the fishing industry and the industrial sector it represents can become part of the negotiations. The same thing we want to add in terms of looking at what we can achieve from changes in the EEA Agreement with regard to customs regimes in the EU. I am pleased that the Committee shares our view that research is a key factor in the development of the industry and also supports the proposal for the introduction of a R & D levy in the fisheries and aquaculture sector. However, the fishing industry is based on the harvesting of limited but renewable resources. It underlines the importance of managing marine resources to provide predictability and optimal returns. Centrally, this is a food chain-based tax strategy. However, the strong and unexpected decline of cod stocks in the Barents Sea underlines the need for a high level of effort in resource research and international cooperation on regulation and control of fisheries. It also shows that methods and models need to be developed on the basis of new knowledge. Unfortunately, the downturn we see for the cod population may indicate that we have had a wrong strategy in the whole of the 1990s with regard to the taxation of this stock. One of the real challenges facing the fishing industry in the future is to ensure the recruitment of skilled labour. Reform 94 has changed the recruitment pattern, especially in relation to the fishing industry, by 93 pst. by students taking secondary education directly after primary school. The fishing industry must therefore market itself to young people in a completely different way from before, and the industry must take an active part in training and recruitment. The teaching material of primary schools must reflect the importance of the fisheries and aquaculture industry. Let me also add that the Minister of Fisheries and the Minister of the Church, Education and Research have already put forward cooperation in the context of a communication to the Stortinget, where we are to outline measures in the field of higher education that can facilitate recruitment and fishing training. The Ministry of Fisheries will specifically focus on recruiting and empowering the industry through the Joint Management Board of the Fisheries Industry and the Women's Committee of the Fisheries Industry. Focus has also been placed on close cooperation between SND’s commitment to competence and those coordination bodies in the industry. However, the recruitment of the fishing industry ultimately depends on the profitability of the industry. In addition, you need to be able to offer good and orderly employment and a good working environment, not least in order to be able to hold people over time. The government will continue its work on international administrative regimes that close the loopholes and secure us against uncontrolled taxation in international waters. Much has been achieved in this area, and it is important to me that our national administration does not cast doubt on our position on this issue. With regard to our own fishing fleet, we will need to make an ongoing assessment of which forms of access restriction will be most appropriate in the future. The Government will provide the best possible operational basis by adapting fleet capacity so that the smallest vessels can adapt their fishing to local conditions. I have noted the Committee's comments on these issues. We will now complete a consultation proposal on the concession arrangement for vessels over 28 m fishing with conventional gear, the group which is a bit unpresidiously referred to as the bankline fleet, and which has been separated for several years as a separate group in the regulatory context. Then, as the Committee has asked, we will continue to look at what can be done to find appropriate boundaries between different ship groups. There is an open question as to whether good alternatives to meter limits can be found within all fisheries and fleet groups. The main objective of this work must be to define and regulate groups naturally belonging to each other in the best way within each group. It will also make it easier to develop freer regulation models for the smallest boats. As a general rule, the Saltwater Fishing Act assumes that allocation of the annual allowances is to be made according to the size and employment of the vessel. Gradually, we have developed a complex system of groupings and access-restricted fisheries. Allocation of quotas between different groups is the main means of creating a living and profitable fishing industry. In order for the allocation of resources to help meet the stability targets set for all groups, we need, inter alia, to: bear in mind the variations in the operating patterns and conditions of the different actors. However, there is a need for better knowledge of the actual allocation of participant access and quotas in fisheries. Therefore, we will review how the access of participants in the various fisheries is distributed between individual vessels and groups. With this in mind, we will have a better basis for further development of regulations, so that stable operating conditions can be created for all those involved in fishing, as the Committee has pointed out. There is a need for a significant upswing in the renewal of the fishing fleet in order to improve the management of catches, the working environment and safety. However, the fleet needs to be adapted to the resource base and capacity-adapting measures are needed. The Government therefore wishes to make the current system of unit allowances for trawls and purse seine permanent, while extending it to other concessional fisheries with appropriate regulations, and aims at establishing a unit quota scheme for vessels over 28 m in length operating with conventional gears. Public funding is used to contribute to the consolidation measures, and the Communication has highlighted the need for fiscal arrangements to facilitate the development of equity in shipping companies. I am therefore pleased that the Committee has agreed that schemes that stimulate new construction with both tax and financial instruments need to be assessed. There has been a raised a number of questions. I might come back to some of them in retrospect, but I will now give a little comment on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, and from the Right, saying, ‘The government is asking for immediate action to be taken to reduce the population of adult Greenlandese salmon to a significantly greater extent than at present.’ Let me just say that the Greenlandese shelve that is in the Barents Sea is a Russian population and is under Russian administration. We are allocated quotas on that stock in fisheries negotiations, and the Ministry of Fisheries proposes that we have support schemes for the capture of seals in the coming years, so that those quotas can be taken. In the case of Greenland-Self Witch in the West ice, we have increased the TAC, i.e. the catch quotas, from 17 000 to 27 000 animals, and we have also significantly increased the rates of aid applicable to the capture of seals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e937	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e940	First of all, I would like to say that it was very good to hear that the Minister for Fisheries responds so positively to the Committee's position as he does. There is no doubt that the challenges are in line in the Norwegian fishing industry, and that will require the broadest possible debate on how to meet the challenges. The Committee has been concerned about the framework conditions for the farming industry and, in the context of a concrete proposal, we propose that the Government develop long-term national strategies for the industry, the aim of which is to ensure the industrial policy framework in order to develop the industry in Norway. In this context, I have wondered what the grip the Minister for Fisheries has found reason to take, recently, to reduce feed quotas for Norwegian farmers. How does it harmonize with getting a framework for this industry that gives them an overview? If they cannot have an overview of their feed quota relative to the number of heads/individuals they have seen in the sea at the start of production, it would be difficult to say that there is a good enough framework for this industry. I would also like to ask the Minister for Fisheries how he sees that he can come back to the Stortinget with a proposal for a distinction between coastal and sea fishing which makes it a fairer arrangement than we have today, where one sees that boats that are over and below 28 m actually fish side by side. I'm excited about the Minister of Fisheries' input when it comes to the two questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e949	The market problems encountered by the Norwegian fishing industry within the EU, where one was confronted with the threat of the imposition of customs duties on 14-15 p.m., led the industry to ask the previous government to negotiate the scheme with the EU. A salmon agreement was then concluded, where the Government is responsible for the participation and overall regulation of the industry in order to keep production in balance with the market. In that time, from the summer of 1997, the salmon agreement has existed, we have had a significant growth in exports to the EU. There has been room for growth in the market with that agreement. What happened last year when the quotas were set was that it was added up to an increase of 10 pst. after advice from the industry, and with a background in the overview we had of fish standing in the sea. It turned out in the New Year that there was too much pressure on the market when so much fish was going into the market. When you look at it in a long-term perspective beyond the year, you see that you can have big problems keeping that balance. There is increasing pressure to reduce production by regulating feed quotas. There has been no full agreement in the industry on what to do or what to do, but there are significant actors in the industry who want us to reduce feed quotas, and we have done so. The growth from last year to this year has been reduced from 10 pst. to 4-5 pst. When it comes to the coastal and marine fleets and the division there, when you set a limit, you're always going to hit a ditch in the fleet where everyone fishes the same, in the same area and has almost the same size. It is not that coastal fishing vessels fish only on the coast, they also fish far at sea. There is no regulation as to how far a coastal fishing vessel can go at sea. It is the certificate of the ship that determines it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e960	The Council of State was in its article, p. a. engaged in the farming industry and said that it would now be working to improve the conditions for fisheries under the forthcoming WTO negotiations – here, too, the EEA Agreement has a certain importance. What we can see that many have been concerned about is that the anti-dumping weapon has been hanging over the Norwegian farming industry for many years and has helped to reduce competitiveness. Now that we are faced with a new WTO round, I expect the government, following the signals that have emerged in the media, to give priority to the fight against anti-dumping weapons and this at reduced rates for processed fishery products. I understand that the government needs to see these negotiations in an overall context and not just can think of fish, but it has been speculated in a number of circles if you want to give priority to the subsidized agricultural industry over the competitive fishing industry. We hope that in the Progress Party we will not become a reality, because it must be better that we can export goods in areas where we are competitive, and also open up more imports of agricultural products. It also benefits Norwegian consumers because they then receive lower food prices. If such a situation arises, will the Government open up the possibility of allowing larger imports of agricultural products in exchange for more free trade in fish?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e969	For the sake of the forthcoming negotiations and for the sake of Norwegian interests, it would be pointless for me, as the Council of State, here from the Chair of the Stortinge to announce what Norway is willing to give in these negotiations. With regard to the arrangements for the negotiations and what countries of cooperation we see for ourselves, I think it is purely strategic to negotiate that it is not appropriate to publish it. I guess that's what you could say about it. With regard to the anti-dumping weapon and what will be the main theme of the negotiations, it is difficult for me to say something about it. Norway is a country among very many who want to participate in those negotiations. What will be the majority to put as the main item on the agenda is, of course, it's hard for me to say here today. But from the Norwegian side, I think it is obvious that sectoral negotiations will be the best way to achieve results in the areas in which Norway wants to achieve good results.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e976	I would like to address the last part of the Council of State, in which he commented on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party and the Right, and I want to say that we appreciate the rates that are expressed, e.g. this with an increase in the catch quota from 17000 to 27000 animals. One might essentially wonder how the intermediate parties in the committee have addressed the proposal, but it is not the Council of State's task to respond. On the other hand, I would like to ask the Council of State how the Ministry views the possibilities for achieving these targets. How are you interested in participating in the catch? And what does the capacity look like when it comes to operating companies, shooting and crews to tackle the major challenges of self-afraid, also in relation to the possible support measures that need to be taken to step up the activity?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e981	Let me just say in general to the proposal that has been promoted from the Right and the Advance Party: it has a form that makes it difficult for me to see that it can be adopted as a decree to the Government, because it does not give instructions as to what you really want with the proposal. It's okay enough as a transmission proposal, but if it's going to be an order for the government, it has to be precisely formulated in the proposal, because this administration is too complex to do so. As far as the harness species are concerned, I would like to remind you that the problem in the food chain in the Barents Sea is Greenland. It is a Russian population and is managed by the Russians. We're negotiating to quotas, and we have 5,000 adult animal units as a quota this year, like last year. The sales around Jan Mayen are not in the food chain in the Barents Sea, and are not the big problem, but there is Norwegian administration, and according to what researchers have recommended, we have increased quotas there. We add up to a change in the subsidy schemes for the self-employed to make it more attractive to have fishing intensity to fill the quotas. But it's true, as it's suggested, in the last few seasons we haven't been able to fill the entire quota. It probably has different reasons. Last year it was due to very poor fishing conditions and weather conditions in both ice regions. But we say, in cooperation with the industry, that we should get more effort in the area that is the problem today, namely the market. The market is not present today because self-anxiety is economically profitable, and that's where we have to put the heaviest work. The next must be to ensure the renewal of a fleet that has ice classification to drive catch in the future. And it's important for us with efforts in both areas and ensuring that you have continuity in this profession and in the knowledge of driving self-afraid from ships.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e988	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e992	After oil and gas, the fishing industry is our largest export industry. It was in 1997 for a total of $24.6 billion. The main export product is farmed salmon, which accounts for about one third of the export value. Fishing resources in the Norwegian economic zone are among the richest in the world, providing a good basis for coastal work and settlement — both on the sea and on the land. If the fishing industry is to develop positively in the future, we must impose requirements on operators in the industry, but also on policy-makers, who are to adopt laws and framework conditions. In its observations under 3.2.1, the Committee drew up a fishing effort of approximately 90 million. tonnes annually on a national basis. The growth must come primarily from farming. In a FAO report, they estimated a monthly increase in farming output from 15 million. tonnes in 1993 to 30 million. tonnes in 2010. Providing raw material for the production of feed will be one of the main challenges for developing the breeding industry. Here I would like to mention that at the Tjeldbergodden in Møre and Romsdal, a bioprotein factory was started in the summer of 1998. In this production, a conversion of natural gas, methane, from Haltenbaken to feed material. This fish feed is clean, free of contamination, and in addition a good use of natural gas. The factory has expansion plans in this area, and I would like to ask the Council of State to follow in this development, which is an interesting area in relation to the farming industry's future. It is an important objective for the fishing industry and a central task to maintain coastal settlement patterns, to protect the resource base and to ensure safe jobs for both women and men in the fishing industry. In the future, it will be important to have a defensive tax on fisheries resources, so that we can get a good return on the industry in the future. We've had a lot of deportation from Coast Norway in recent years. One of the reasons for this, I believe, is the lack of safe and profitable jobs. Large parts of the coast of Norway also have a female deficit, and this is due to the fact that the employment in the fishing districts is far too little adapted to the situation of women or families where both want to be economically active. In order to increase participation and participation in the fishing industry, both work to increase the skills of the girls and make the industry use of the competences of the girls. For many girls, it is important to be able to take a challenge and a course without having to move away to school, and there must be provision that is specially made for the girls. It is therefore an important task to communicate to both girls and boys that fishing industries face interesting and varied challenges — both nationally and internationally. Fishing industries today have to compete for wages, leisure, employment, well-being on board and to create social understanding of the profession. On boats with production on board, many of these conditions are taken care of, and therefore the development in relation to recruitment here is not particularly difficult. In the future, the fleet structure must also be adapted to the total quantity that can be fished. It is therefore necessary to reduce the overall capacity of the fleet. But we must have a varied and high technological fleet structure, a modern fleet that can compete on the international market. We also have to have a fleet structure that includes the ocean-going fleet. We're not sure that the western fleet is being built while the coastal fleet is still growing. We must have a thorough review of the laws and regulations in force in the industry, with a view to establishing a good governance system. Concession and regulatory policies must also be modernised and coordinated. When allocating fishing resources, we need to ensure that the workplaces, competences and value creation for which fishing is based are maintained in Coastal Norway. In that respect, it is a goal to develop the different districts of their premonitions. It is therefore important to have a good dialogue between fishermen, organisations and politicians, who, in close cooperation, will do their best to promote nutrition. Finally, I think it is very important to focus more on education, research and development in the fishing industry. And this education needs to be developed at all levels. More knowledge of the fishing industry may be the most important resource in the future. There has been too little emphasis on the importance of sustainable development in resource management. Therefore, the Committee states in its opinion that: ‘...the level of ambition in the case of permits for research must be increased monthly in the years to come.’ Asmund Kristoffersen had taken over the president's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1016	Others have taken the role of Norway in the aquaculture industry into account in this debate. I do not want to go into this, just a memory of the future potential that lies in this area, both in relation to Norway as a leading player and in relation to the importance of the aquaculture industry as a food provider in a global perspective. Not least new species and research are crucial in this context. In the case of traditional fishing, the Communication provides an overall perspective focusing on the interaction between resource, fishing line, capacity, industry, market and research. This is correct and absolutely fundamental to the proper development of the Norwegian fishing industry. A balanced development between resource and capacity is the main global challenge for international fisheries policy. In order to succeed in this work, international obligatory cooperation is necessary. The UN Agreement on the Conservation and Management of Migrant Fish Stocks provides for new framework conditions for the management of migratory fish stocks outside the economic zones. When the agreement looked into the light of the day in 1995, it was considered a breakthrough. The main problem today is getting enough countries to ratify it. Norway must be a driving force in this work. Minister of Foreign Affairs Knut Vollebæk gave a satisfactory response to Norway's role in this respect in the Questionnaire a few weeks ago. He was also more subdued than the Minister for Fisheries in relation to the possible extension of the economic fishing zone to 250 nautical miles. Implementation of the UN agreement is a far more correct and less controversial way to go. The best evidence of the importance of good cooperation between fishing nations is seen in the construction of the strain of Norwegian herring-watering herring – NVG-sild – and the cod stock in the north. Now there is enormous responsibility on the cooperating countries for their proper and sustainable further management. The North Sea is by nature one of the most productive marine areas in the world. Not everyone is aware that this sea area has the same natural growth as the Barents Sea, even on one third of the area of the latter. With the people-rich EU countries and Norway around this sea area, the North Sea is under enormous pressure. Norway and the EU are now cooperating in several areas, not least as regards control measures. However, the road is still a long way off, not least the pressure must be applied to parts of the EU fisheries management. The Union's practice of discarding illegal catches is totally reprehensible, and it must be a high priority for Norway in our joint administration of the North Sea to put an end to this. I agree with the Committee that, in the light of technological developments and the recent design of vessels, the boundaries between sea and coastal fleets must be able to be seen with new eyes. In any case, the Norwegian fleet structure must have a balanced relationship between coastal and sea-going fleets. I also agree with the Committee that it is important within the framework of the resource management, the concession arrangements and the quota systems we have to look at a freer design of ships. It is not least about caring for by-products, improving catch quality and the working environment and the facilities for crews on board our fishing vessels. In these assessments, it may also be useful to go back to the structural message from the early 1990s, where a gap between coastal fleets and sea fleets is more independent from the current practice and guidelines. A problem for today’s government, like for previous governments, in terms of a balanced development between resource and capacity, is the practice of legislation. Causes of turbulence include: fragmentation of concessions and increases in capacity which have recently been seen within the North Sea group. A forward-looking level of approx. 45 trawlers are now well on their way to being diluted. The renewal of the different fleet groups is a central theme. The merger between the Fiskarbankan bank and the SND has proved to be correct despite the fact that, in part, there was considerable resistance to this, not least on the part of the Fiskerlagen. A further way to go will be to add fishing competence to all SND offices in the fishing regions. Since fishing boats are separate from terrestrial industries by being mobile units, it may be appropriate to consider whether it would be appropriate to introduce criteria other than those for the rural industry as regards the distribution of rural instruments. In recent times, the focus of the yard support has been strong. It is then natural to point out that no yard support is given to Norwegian fishing boats that are contracted at Norwegian workshops. This distorts competition in relation to the granting of yard aid to foreign fishing boats. In addition, such an opportunity could have given the Norwegian shipyard industry a bone to stand on. Overall, however, the closure of all yard aid under the OECD would be the best. Finally, I agree with the majority view of the Committee that we still need a minimum of 51 pst. fishing effort fleet. However, the rules on exemptions must be flexible. There are enough examples along the Norwegian coast that sensible exemptions have saved the existence of ships of great importance for many communities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1046	The problem of new recruiting and lack of high key competences has been mentioned by several speakers here today. At the same time, the industry is struggling with a part of the age of the fishing fleet. If the industry is to have the hope of increasing recruitment, we need to have a faster rate of replacement in the fishing fleet, because no youth will seek a fleet with today's high average age. Therefore, the Right is pleased that an overall committee asks the Government to submit current tax and financial instruments that can stimulate increased fleet replacement rates in the different parts of the country. In this context, one should also look at the legislation on fleet renewal, because current regulations are rigid and red tape, and experience shows that they do not function properly. The fleet is getting older and that impositions on the use of certain gears also lead to a lack of flexibility in the practice of fishing and make a higher level of cost necessary are elements that should be given high weight. In spite of the long-term profitability of the industry, it will be crucial for both access to capital, new recruitment and the desire of young people to invest in a future in fisheries and fisheries processing. Not least, young people want to invest in higher-level education within these branches, and they must then have some certainty that this will respond in the longer term. Ownership is traditionally strong throughout the fishing fleet. Ownership stimulates profitability, entrepreneurial spirit and industrial development. Fisheries policy should be designed in such a way that owners or joint owners of their own vessels can become as many as possible. In the fishing fleet, investment costs are high and crew needs are high, and the Right believes that facilitating the acquisition of holdings will stimulate recruitment of people with will and belief in the future of the industry. Fishing is Norway’s second largest industry, yet its profitability is not as high as it could have been. One thing is that our relationship with the EU limits the possibility of increased value creation through greater further processing. It has to be a task for the government to get something done with. Another thing is that we have national regulations that limit industry’s potential for development, among other things. the law on raw fish works poorly in relation to the long-term needs of the fishing industry in the industry. Neither industry nor employees in the fishing industry are served by regulatory conditions which in practice result in frequent lay-offs and problems for the industry in entering into long-term contracts with customers. Here, the law needs to make it more flexible, to facilitate binding and long-term agreements between the seller and industry, and to allow greater predictability both for industrial workers and for customers dependent on industry. Then the law must also ensure greater flexibility for fishermen and industry in the choice of raw material access. I do not go into the technical aspects of this, but the other representatives of the Right have done so.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1055	In the wake of this debate, it can be concluded in many ways that the future fisheries policy is, as it were, a major negotiator. To the extent that it is unsavory, the traditional question is, Where do the boundaries between public governance and the market go? There's nothing unnatural. But what's absolutely certain is that in this area there's not a great deal of public governance. This is not least true in the area of resource control, because leaving the market there would give this industry a relatively short life span. It is particularly important that there is a broad consensus that this growth industry should be managed in a good and forward-looking way. We still have to have a great deal of resource control, and perhaps research in that area is too poor and the effort too little in relation to what it has to say for the industry's future. The Council of State should therefore take it seriously when the Committee of the Regions says that research in this area needs to be stepped up. It should be reasonable to have broad support for the research fund for which the Labour Party has been called, not least when it is involved in increasing investment in marine research. Then we must, within the resources available at all times, provide for a greater degree of further processing. There can be no doubt that increasing the value of the raw material that fish is must be a priority task. We are all aware that different customs rates set limits to the level of further processing, but then it must also be recognised that a great deal of effort is needed to try to build up these customs barriers, as the Committee calls for. However, if the fishing industry is to become an efficient and rational industry in the future, it must be recruited. We are forced to participate in all possible ways to ensure that the status of the industry is higher than it is today, otherwise I am afraid that we will have great difficulties in the future to get young people into this important industry. Furthermore, we cannot discuss the fishing industry without taking along the farming industry, even if it has no big space in the message. But this is where growth is primarily based, and we must now take seriously the challenges we face in this area. It is sad that for almost 20 years, one has discussed safe control in the industry. This is what the Storting has ordered the Government to work actively for. I am afraid that the measures that the Government has taken to date are not expansive enough to meet the developments we should have in this area. Finally, let me say that the Council of State found it presumptuous to be out of the hall under several of the posts from the opposition party. There's going to be a lot of reasons to do it, it's not enough to be coffee-dried.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1068	Managing fish resources in the short and long term is really about this message. The Norwegian fishing industry has been taught the lesson again and again in time. The average age of Norwegian fishing boats is high. Technological developments are moving fast, and it should mean that the rate of replacement should be higher than it has been in recent times. On this basis, it was correct for the Government to abolish the framework management of new fishing vessel construction and import permits. I have with great interest noticed what the Minister for Fisheries in the message says about the relation to the issue of equity. The ability to build up equity through its own ignition, I believe, is fundamental to much of the industry, as is the case in the fishing industry. If we think that the fleet is still going to be fishing grounds, and that is what we in the Christian People's Party believe is one of the main elements of Norwegian fisheries policy, yes, it must facilitate the disposal of parts of the surplus. The message points to several ways of doing this. Deferred tax on profits is one moment. It often takes time to implement a hall, to get public approvals, osb. Fund allocation will also have several positive effects: boating can be planned over a longer period and with more self-financing. In classification, such a system will be useful. I believe that such a scheme will properly manage the Norwegian fishing industry and lead to more long-term investment planning. This latter is very important in such an industry as the fishing industry. A sensible self-financing scheme will also guarantee a natural recruitment to this industry in the longer term. It is easy for these workplaces to be attractive, it must be possible to carry out a continuous renewal of boats and equipment. As so many others have said before in this debate, it is important to facilitate the best possible use of the raw material available. This will require investments both on board boats and in product development on land. During the discussion of this message, the Industry Committee has been presented with both offensive bets and creative solutions to use the whole fish. The aim must be to ensure that the so-called by-product lasts for 100 pst. Finally, the treatment of this message has taught me the following: It is and must be space for both the coastal fleet, the sarcasm and the ocean-going fleet with and without on-board production. In my view, in the future, the challenges will be to regulate the administration between these groups.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1089	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1092	It is a fact that there is overcapacity in Norwegian fishing. A unit quota scheme for the ring-fleet fleet has been put in place for the time being to reduce capacity and to provide a profitable industry within that part. What has then happened in retrospect is that the Ministry and the Minister for Fisheries have repeatedly gone beyond the 1994 agreement with the Fiskerlagen on the division between coastal and sea fleets. The ministry has thus begun to eat of the wages that the fleet and the ocean fleet have managed to create. And then the question is, is that sensible policy? Then there's a build of the paragraph boats, boats less than 28 meters. And we've seen the result. Those who like to see a fishing boat as a tail on the sea, the worst when they see the saunas of boats that are currently in the fishing ports around. The result is that we have got a capacity building in boats just below 28 meters. I would like to refer a fisherman on the Dark Coast who said that the next thing is that the fishing industry is starting to produce so-called telescopic boats, which can only print out and in as the department has to change the boundaries. One should be aware that boats which are 28 metres and which a few years ago had a cargo capacity of 700-900 hl, today have a capacity of 3000-4,000 hl. That's why we're of the opinion that maybe one should introduce unit quotas on all boats over 15 meters. Then one might have managed to create some reduction in the overcapacity that we're all a few about is in Norwegian fishing. It's also the industry itself. But I feel that there is now deliberately a policy in which the coastal fleet is clearly given priority over the ocean, one district is given priority over other districts. This is a conscious policy from the Department's side. Then one might say it so that Norway no longer has a Minister for Fisheries, but North Norway has. A good part of the rejections that now occur when it comes to fleet renewal is inexplicable. I think it's okay that someone has now got the self-afraid on the agenda again. It is also gratifying that we are now beginning to look at this with fund allocation in the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1107	I want to start this article by bringing out a sentence from the Committee's position, where it says: ‘The fish is a national common resource to be managed and exploited for the benefit of coastal communities’. When I draw out just this quote, it's because I'm very concerned about what's a goal for most of us, that's to secure the main features of today's housing pattern. If we are to succeed, we need to find schemes that ensure that local resources are exploited in a way that creates new and secures today's jobs. There is no other solution. And then we don't get along with the fact that the fisheries have to play a very central role. We're talking about our second largest export industry and an industry that is anchored in a resource that will always be there if we act in a proper way. The whole Committee is behind that quotation, but it is not unexpected that a major question mark can be placed on the practical solutions for which the Right and the Advance Party stand. To believe that resources will benefit local communities when capital forces are almost released is rather blue-eyed. In general, there are two ways we can use the resource. We can add up to what is maximum profitability in dollars and ear for Norway as a nation. Or we can balance our fisheries policy with other values, such as: housing. I'm glad that the vast majority of people so clearly state that the latter way of doing it is right. However, I also stress that we need to talk about profitability, but there is a difference between profitability and maximum profit, for which I feel that both the Right and especially the Advance Party will facilitate. Then it's going to be the biggest and strongest that wins, and that means centralization. Also, I would argue that there is a need to look at all aspects of this industry in order to increase profitability. Here, too, there is a need for innovation. But when it comes to the law of participants and the law of raw fish, we're talking about some of the things that I'm going to call the foundation law of the industry. Then it is necessary to proceed with caution. In my view, the committee has found a good balance in this area as well. For example, it does not seem reasonable to go further than to continue the freedom of exemption with regard to the ownership of the industry in the fleet. In my view, a continued fishing rage fleet will be the best guarantee for the purpose of settling. However, in order to ensure stable raw material access to industry, it appears necessary to allow industry to own parts of the sea fishing fleet. Local ownership should then be sought whenever it is possible to raise capital. In terms of boat size and fleet renewal, I would like to draw out the chess fleet and stress that it should not be forgotten. It is very important for more regions. I also agree that the distinction between the sea fleet and the coastal fleet should be further explored, but emphasises that the coastal fleet must be the backbone if the settlement is to be secured. For the same reason, on-board production must be limited to raw material which, for quality reasons, should not be produced on land, as the county of Northern Ireland has unanimously accepted. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of continuing cooperation with the fisheries organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1129	First, a few comments on the proposals promoted by SV. As regards proposal No: 3, on the so-called objectives of the fisheries policy, it is in the communication. It has not changed the objectives set out in previous messages. That's clearly stated. But we have clarified what is important in order to be able to maintain the objectives mentioned there. As regards proposal No: 4, a work is already under way primarily to be mapped and to look at what can be done to mine the coral reefs, and to add to a so-called settlement. Of course, what lies in it must be that the areas of the coral reefs must be protected, so that bottom gear cannot damage the coral reefs. In terms of sanctions, the proposal to be discussed in Odelstinget later today states that we can implement such reactions as we are talking about here. As regards proposal No: 5, there is a proposal from a working group. The proposal is now also being worked on, so that the matter will be referred to Stortinget, and I do not think that it stands in the way of the issues here to promote the proposal as a real proposal. It should be transmitted to the Government. So to some of the other questions that have been raised. Let me first say to Lodve Solholm that in the case of so-called paragraph boats, boats of up to 28 meters, it is an old concept. When the ring-fleet concession scheme was introduced, a lower limit of 90 ft was set for the concession, i.e. Seventy-two hundred forty-two feet. That's what this is about. So it sets a maximum capacity of 1500 hl for vessels below the concessional limit. They can build the boats as wide and deep as they want, but the cargo capacity and space capacity are 1500 hl. It is therefore completely wrong – it is a confusion of the debate – to say that the capacity for the ring-fleet fleet is increased. In the case of cod fisheries, the load capacity is not the problem. But the fact that people build the boats that come below the regulatory limit set here, larger, wider, deeper and higher, it is to improve the convenience on board – for crew, for employment and for technical equipment. Of course, there is something about catch efficiency, but it is not about cargo capacity. So I think it would serve the fisheries debate better in the future if one kept to the realities, to the reality. There's no North-South problem. There must be some people with an anguished relationship with the fisheries policy that makes this a North-South problem. Most of the 90s built so far in the last two years have gone to the West. Let's be clear. - Time's up, I see.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1144	I have no "anxious" relationship to the fishing industry. I have too strong a background in it for that. But the point is that without regard to how long this 28-metre limit has existed, there is no doubt that there has been a capacity increase there, whether it is 1500 hl or 2000 hl, as long as older boats had lower capacity. The statistics show that the number of vessels below the 28-metre limit has grown. But it's kind of interesting when the council says that one needs to build new boats to get better comfort, to get better security, to create a better working environment on board the boats, etc. Why, then, did the directorate refuse a renewal of the boat that was lost? The Reiarane had a purchase on their hands. But then one said no, the boat was too big. Reiare's argument was that they should not have larger quotas. The only thing they wanted was to build a boat that was safer, that gave a better working environment, and that was more suitable. Then set a limit of 28 meters and said the boat was too large, had too much cargo capacity compared to what the old boat had. The result is that these riders, who have lost their boat and had the opportunity to get a boat that they wanted, and actually said they should not have larger quotas, are missing many fishing opportunities. It was not about creating a safer and better working environment with a boat that was better and more suitable. It seemed to me to draw this a little bit well. Governments do not seem to want to understand, more or less consciously, that there has been a reduction in capacity in the ring-fleet fleet. At least we're a few of them about that. But when it comes to cod – that was the group of vessels I was thinking about most – I can't see anything else, when one replaces an old 80-90 footing with a new 80-90 footing and one looks like the new boats look like, but there's been a capacity boost. That's what's unfortunate. Therefore, it would make sense to introduce unit quotas at an even lower level. Maybe one should do as the fisheries organisations say, stop at 21,5 meters? Why, then, not do as the Progress Party says, why not go all the way down to 15 meters and maybe get pay throughout the industry? Then perhaps the representative Kjell Opseth will have to go back to what he said, that the market forces must not rule. He was the opponent of it when it spelled Telenor, NSB, ferries, mail and competition in the air. Now he has a different vision. Today, however, there was no need for market forces in fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1152	Let me just take a relationship with the ring-fleet fleet. Solholm stated that the unit quota schemes were adapted to the capacity of that industry. That's not right. It is the state that has spent billions on the purchase of a ring-fence and got its capacity down to today's level. In the case of unit quota schemes, perhaps a dozen vessels have been taken out. But in addition, if you're going to use the concept of capacity, as Solholm expresses it, you're going to have permission for replacements in the ring-fenced fleet with a vessel that's nearly 100 pst. greater cargo capacity than they have the concession and allowances for within the quotad fisheries. But of course we also have fisheries where ring notes can be used, which are not quotad. There they can use the load capacity, and of course there is a load on the resources. With regard to the individual case in which Solholm was involved, I would just like to mention that it is in the group within conventional tools on boats over 28 metres where the replacements have been the largest in recent years, and we have had growth on a total of 24 vessels in a group of vessels that used to be on a total of 70 to 80 vessels. We set up an investment halt there in the autumn of 1997 pending the creation of a concession scheme for that group. It was the group as such and the organisations in the industry agreed. Then comes the individual cases where you want to replace a vessel that is not in line with the legislation that was in force when the investment stop came. There is no substitution stop, but rules have been put in place on how to replace them in order to avoid further capacity building until legislation is in place. It's just within the group we're fishing on very many species of fish that are currently not totally regulated, nor are they regulated. In some way you have to make sure that you don't build up a load on the fish species that makes you fish them even more down. Because it is quite clear that in all areas of the fisheries we have, we are under-burdened by stocks. It is the responsibility of the authorities to ensure that the community operates in such a way that we can in the long run make optimum use of the fish stocks we have. In that case, it will often be the case that individual cases become clumsy in relation to legislation that needs to be the same for everyone. It's not that you can give one exemption from a code, and then the other hundreds will deal with the legislation. This is not how legislation can work. It may, of course, be a tax for the administrative authorities and for a minister, but that burden has to be borne in such cases.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1162	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2070]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1176	I thought perhaps the President-in-Office should have the floor first. – What this matter is about, is that a company, Fiskesvegn AS, had applied for permission to test a separate machine. The Fisheries Directorate in Bergen rejected this. The reason for refusing to grant aid was that the measure had not received public support, that it had not been implemented by the public authorities, and that one could risk having an advantage in the competitive market if the company were allowed to do so. It was a relatively fantastic reason for a refusal and not suitable for promoting business development in the districts — it really has to be said. The matter was also raised in the Questionnaire, and then the Council of State informed that this could not be authorised under Section 2 of the Saltwater Fishing Act, as it should contain the fact that a measure had to be implemented and financed by the public. That is why a proposal has been made on this matter. The proposal was that we wanted the government to facilitate scientific research and practical fishing trials in addition to the public sector, and if the department did not find such a basis, it should get one. The committee received a response from the Council of State that, at my discretion, was not satisfactory, where he finally said: ‘I therefore see it as clearly the most appropriate practice in today’s practice can be continued.’ Now we are in the fortunate situation that the Committee has given a clear-sighted position, which is unanimous, and which in fact implies that, in the Committee's view, there is an opportunity and the basis for granting a derogation also for private experiments. That means that there is a unanimous committee that agrees with what is our proposal in Document No. 8:14. I expect the matter to be decided, that the Council of State will do what is to be done in this respect, and that the company Fiskvegn AS – which is a company of 90 employees and is located in Sogn and Fjordane – will be allowed to do what they request thinly. It is an enterprise that has invested a million in the development of a self-propelled machine especially for the chess fleet, and they are asking to try it out in full scale. I hope the Council of State can give a confirmatory answer, so that I do not take a reply.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1192	A few words to the Deep. S. No 88, private and public fishing trials. Of course, there is no reason to extend the debate, especially when the setting is the way it is. kicking open doors has little in themselves, of course. On the other hand, there is reason to express joy over the work of the nutrition committee and the rose must fall on all the represented batches. Perhaps this is to be seen as a legal small pick in the saltwater fishing law, but the proposal is based, as it is referred to, on a concrete case that also has a high level of media interest, where repeated progeny produced negative results. I believe that the Storting here clearly says that we want an administrative practice that is different from the one we have just seen. Taking into account the special issue that has triggered this general proposal, there is good reason to argue that the basis for previous rejections is not very good. Complicated technical devices during testing can rarely be coordinated with hectic and strictly regulated fishing. Located for the technical improvement of prototypes, present-day nutrition could be a major irritant. Therefore, the trade mark registers and, where appropriate, the travel licence limitations for recreational fishing are real obstacles from which a specific experimental measure has a legitimate wish to obtain a derogation. As I said, we are very pleased with the way in which Saka no takes, and we understand it so that the Council of State will immediately stick to this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1203	Developments in the equipment side of the fishing industry are steadily moving forward, and last Friday I had the pleasure of visiting the autolined «Geir» in Ålesund, which must be seen as a revolution in terms of working conditions and safety for fishermen who have worked on board, with their own internal well for drawing lines. This is the result of a R & D project where the fishing boat owner, Marintek in Trondheim, and the state has been responsible for the development of the project. I take this as an example, because I think it would be wrong to say that it could not be possible to try out new food makers. However, private initiatives for the development of new fishing gears may not constitute insurmountable obstacles. Now I understand it this way, after what I see in the media, that one of them has all come into port with the mentioned own machine under the direction of Fiskesvegn AS. That's what I thought was positive, and it shows that it's possible. Finally, I would like to warn against a development where applications for quotas to run practical fishing trials are a shellfish shelter to obtain fishing quotas, which would have to be taken from fishing boats that have entered from fishing. I want to make it clear that I don't want to signal a negative attitude to what is a collective committee's setting when it comes to this Document No. The 8 proposal, because we are forced to take on board the fact that developments are also going on in relation to the equipment side of the fishing industry. That's a good one.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1210	This matter by the Business Committee has the background to a proposal, Document No. 8:14, which deals with scientific studies and practical fishing trials and that these can be carried out both publicly and privately. The proposal is based on a specific case where an applicant was rejected in the Fisheries Directorate and where the Ministry of Fisheries confirmed the decision after appeal. The refusal was legitimately justified in the final paragraph of Section 2 of the Saltwater Fishing Act, and the justification was among other reasons. that the new self-proprietary machine was neither put into operation nor supported financially by the public. The Committee takes note of the fact that the practice has been to reject such cases. Technological developments in the fishing industry have had a positive development in the interaction between public and private sectors and in cooperation between the fishing fleet and the enterprises concerned. The Committee assumes that this will continue to be the usual pattern in the future, but there is a need for greater flexibility in this area. Experiments with new tools and technologies must not be used to obtain benefits in terms of resource access, as other speakers have also mentioned. Therefore, testing of new technologies must preferably be carried out on vessels listed in the trade mark register which have the necessary fishing rights. However, there may be examples of difficulties in carrying out tests on the basis of the above assumptions. In such cases, the authorities should be allowed to grant derogations. For this reason, the unanimous recommendation of the Committee is available, which facilitates such a discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1221	As explained in the Committee’s position, it has been assumed that the last paragraph of Section 2 of the Saltwater Fishing Act is directed towards public studies and trials. Therefore, the practice has been that private enterprises that have wanted to test or further develop fishing gear have not been authorised under this provision. I'm going to admit that the case with Fiskvegn AS has made it clear that there is a need for a slightly more flexible practice than what has been. However, some of the issues that made the matter difficult within the current legislation were that the fish experiment was to be carried out with a boat that was not in the fishing vessel's brand register, which is a requirement for fishing, and the fishing was also to be carried out north of the regulation limit for, among other things. cod, where such fish are subject to strict quota regulations. In addition, the testing of equipment for own production was carried out and the results of the tests would thus not be available to manufacturers in general, i.e. published. It would be possible for the company to join forces with fishermen for this experiment, so that it was carried out in current practice. Let me just point out here that the largest international manufacturer of automatic line equipment, Mustad, has done its development of the equipment in cooperation with fishermen and has become the world leader in the testing and development of such equipment, and there have never been such problems as were raised in this matter. The Committee, which I fully agree with, has pointed out that technological developments in the fishing industry have taken a positive turn without hindrances, on the one hand in public terms, and on the other in cooperation between the fishing fleet and the farms concerned, on the other. I think it is important to stress this, and I think that the initiative for such cooperation has often come from angry fishermen who in their work on board have seen that things can be improved. I have believed, and still believe, that it would be unfortunate for the fisheries management to carry out an assessment of the seriousness and success of each project, in relation to such applications. Nor do I believe that this practice has contradicted the fact that governments should actively encourage innovation and technological innovation. However, it must be the industry's primary responsibility for the necessary technological developments. I take note that the Committee proposes a decision which involves a certain change in relation to the practices that have been carried out. The Ministry of Fisheries will follow this approach and will consider whether, in the interests of non-discrimination, there is a need to develop detailed guidelines for dealing with such cases on the basis of the guidance currently put in place. In particular, I refer to what the Committee has said that it will point out that attempts at new tools and technologies need not be used to obtain benefits in the form of resource access that are not attributable to allocated allowances. Testing must therefore preferably be carried out on vessels registered in the trade mark register and having the necessary fishing rights.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1240	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2071]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1253	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1259	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Terje Knudsen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 2 by Mr Terje Knudsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, 4 and 5, from Inge Myrvoll on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There will be an opportunity for explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1274	In the case of proposal No: 1, from the Progress Party and the Right, the Committee has given strong leadership to reduce the cell stock. It may not always be necessary to wear both belts and trousers. In addition, the Council of State has done its best to ensure that greenlandselsel is under Russian administration, so I would strongly encourage the proposers to pass this on, otherwise find the centre parties to vote against it. In the case of proposal No: 2, I encourage the center part to vote against it. In the case of SV's proposal No. 3, I encourage the center party to vote against it, because we've taken care of the objectives that are mentioned here, as well as that we want a profitable industry, which is strongly focused on in the message. In the case of proposals No. 4 and 5, from SV, I ask that these be transmitted as the Council of State said that work was in progress on both of these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1283	We have also taken into account the profitability of the fourth point of proposal No. 3, and we have a much better wording on it, so that proposal is maintained. But based on what the Council of State said, it's working on the content of proposal No. 4 and 5, and that we will be presented with this, we expect that we can submit these proposals. If this doesn't come back in a good enough form, we'll be able to take it up again – with force.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1288	The Right Party and the Progressive Party maintain proposal No. 1 and wish to see real life.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1293	In the case of Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Right, I would ask the Labour Party's group to vote against that proposal. The same applies to proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party. I understand it so that it will vote on proposal No. 3, from SV, and I encourage the Workers' Party to vote against it and otherwise for the setting as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1299	Then we should be ready for voting. Proposals Nos. 4 and 5, from the Socialist Left Party, has now been proposed as a transmission proposal. The President proposes that we meet that desire, and the introductory text is then amended accordingly. Proposal No. 4 then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government initiate the rescue of the coral reefs along the Norwegian coast and that the acquisition authorisation of shipowners destroying the coral reefs be revoked.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government intensify the criminal response to illegal discards of catches.’ These proposals shall be submitted to the Government without any renunciation. – It is considered biphasic. The President will also propose that we vote on proposal No first. 3, by the Socialist Left Party, then by proposal No. 2 by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the – There have been no objections to this – and it is considered to be a cliché. Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The government asks the Government to pursue the following objectives for the fisheries policy:main features of the housing pattern must be maintained,the resource base must be protected,security of safe and good jobs,the real profitability of the fisheries industry must be ensured.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1342	The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to present a case in which one assumes that the Raw Fish Act is repealed.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23.ana.ud2374e1356	The proposal of the Progress Party and the Right reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for immediate action to be taken to reduce the population of adult Greenlandese salmon to a significantly greater extent than at present. If necessary, this must be done with support measures.»
