ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e88	Honourable co-representatives! I'm an ex-husband of Nils O. Golten. He's dead, only 62 years old. Nils O. Golten was born in Sund in Hordaland in May 1936. After completion of education, including: In 1962 he began fishing as an active fisherman and later a fishing vessel — a professional choice that he maintained for the rest of his life. After having been active in the local policy of the municipality of home, Sund, among others. As a member of the local government, Nils O. Golten was elected alternate representative of the Stortinget in 1981, elected by the Right. In 1985 he was elected as a permanent representative from Hordaland. He was re-elected for the period 1989-93, and said goodbye to Stortinget in the fall of 1993. Nils O. Golten was a man of the coast, and he was actively engaged in most aspects of the Norwegian fishing industry. For many years he was a member of the Board of Directors and Chairman of the Bank's branch in Bergen. He had confidence in the Guarantee Fund for Fishermen, the Fishermen's Mutual Social Security Act and the Norwegian Fisheries Research Council. Nils O. Golten also had confidence in his colleagues — something that made a difference, among other things. in the chairmanship of Hordaland Fiskarlag and as a member of the board of the Norwegian Fiskarlag central. Nils O. Golten was therefore rarely well qualified when he was elected to the Maritime and Fisheries Committee at that time at Stortinget. He was a member of this committee throughout all his eight years at Stortinget, and here there was no doubt that he was the right man in the right place. We are many in Stortinget, both representatives and employees, who have good personal memories of the collaboration with Nils O. Golten, and it is almost unreal to find that he is so abruptly torn away. We remember Nils O. The Golten for his work in Stortinget, and brighten the peace of his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e107	Representatives of Anne Brit Stråtveit, Ola D. Glötvold, Karin Andersen, Olav Akselsen, Kari Økland, Reidun Gravdahl, Britt Hildeng, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and John I. Alvheim, who has been licensed, have again taken their seats. They called for alternates, for Buskerud County Frank Willy Larsen and for Vestfold County Ellen Gjerpe Hansen, have taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: by Mr Finn Kristian Marthinsen, on leave on 20 and 21 April in order to attend a meeting chaired by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western European Union in Stockholm, by the Workers' Group on the leave of Astrid Marie Nistad on Tuesday 20 April in order to attend a meeting of the Committee on Voluntary Work in the Nordic organisations, chaired by the Nordic Council in Copenhagen On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Province of Buskerud: Unni Hennum Lie For the Sogn and Fjordane counties: Reidar Sandal
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e175	Unni Hennum Lie and Reidar Sandal are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e180	The President will propose the election of a president for the current week’s meetings – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e185	I suggest Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e190	Asmund Kristoffersen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen is unanimously elected president of the current week’s meetings. Councillor Odd Roger Enoksen exceeded 2kgl. propositions [[see Unit]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e207	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2771]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e219	In the last year’s regional and regional policy statement, the new government’s actions and regional policy ambitions were presented. It was announced that the investment in 1999 would be a start on a stepping-up to ‘approach the whole country’ and a start on a turnaround in creating the desired development in the districts. We have started a fundamental effort to decentralize capital and power, and we are in the process of implementing the largest regional policy effort in the 1990s. We have set ourselves demanding goals, but success in district policy is both economically necessary, practicable and politically important. The development of districts is a matter of central values and opportunities for the country in the long term. We know that centralisation is not governed by natural laws. Although it is difficult to turn around, it is clear that centralisation is influenced by the policies pursued. For example, who wants to do this? Did the many major development projects and investments in the Eastern region have recently given rise to relocation? The districts have more challenges. The statistics show that in large parts of the districts, children’s pods are no longer large enough to maintain the population. Many municipalities will have a negative population development, even without net relocation. Although the relocation stopped completely, we would have a decline in the population in many places in the districts. Population growth in Norway in 1998 was the largest in 25 years, but growth was central. The Oslofjorden counties received two thirds of the national population increase last year. In the 1990s, urban areas were generally growing. Many of the young move to the central strata to gain higher education, and too few come back. People with higher education are in short supply in the districts. This is a problem for a business that needs more competence to maintain competitiveness. At the same time, job opportunities for people with higher education — and this is a serious challenge for districts — are lacking when we are gradually facing youth school, where almost all of them are taking upper secondary education and perhaps half are continuing at university and higher education. It's important to understand what makes people move. We know that there is no need to move today. There is no longer any clear difference between districts and central districts in terms of living conditions. The fact that living conditions are balanced nationally can be seen as a sign that long-term regional policy efforts have been successful, but disadvantages such as: Long distances and poor medical coverage continue to cause problems in many places. The problems of districts have not been solved. There is still a need for strong regional policy efforts and efforts need to be further developed. It is no longer just the search for education and jobs that draws people from the districts. Attitudes and preferences in lifestyles and lifestyles are also important for the choice of residence. The challenges are different than before, and new ways of thinking and instruments are needed to achieve the rural policy objectives. Mothers and trends change, and fortunately they can change again in a direction that benefits the districts. In January, today’s Business presented an interesting article about what they called the ‘mykings’. The article mentions a very comprehensive EU study that suggests that modern people in Europe are undergoing a fundamental change in value. The career becomes the loser in the battle of time. Young people with higher education want to give priority to family and leisure more than ever before. I think the districts can offer very much of what modern people eventually want. Perhaps modern and highly educated people with a desire for rich family life can find better conditions in the districts than in the central districts? Important barriers to decentralisation have been reduced. New technology makes distance less important than before. Several people can work on what they want, no matter where they are. And when new mechanisms in social development make size and centrality less important, much more than today may prefer a life outside the big cities. I think many more over time will realize that districts represent environmental quality and a practical opportunity for a good life that is most forward-looking to take care of and socio-economically important to develop. North Norway will continue to have the highest priority through regional and regional policy instruments, which I, among other things, have. return to the definition of the new geographical scope of regional policy instruments for a new period. Many of the themes and measures taken last year deserve follow-up in this year’s presentation, but I choose to focus on three aspects that it is particularly important to develop further. First of all, I want to deepen our strategic focus on young people and women. These target groups are crucial for the future of districts, and little other benefit if no more of the young and women find it possible and attractive to live and invest in the districts. Secondly, I would like to make concrete efforts to help the competitive, competence-intensive and forward-looking business that the districts need. Particular attention needs to be paid to so-called knowledge-based enterprises. These are strongly under-represented in the districts, and it is within such industries that we find very many of the jobs that young people are training for. Last, but not least, I want to explain how we operate the so-called broad district policy – what we referred to last year as our new, unifying concept. This overall effort is very important because it provides an opportunity to manage diversity for reasons and measures that determine the development of districts. Although I confine myself in this presentation to these three main themes, we will of course continue to follow up on the many and important traditional target groups, industries, actors and instruments. However, the full analysis of regional and regional policy will come back to the next major communication on regional and regional policy, which will be available in two years' time. Last year’s presentation was the first time that young people were properly focused in the field of district policy. When this target group is highlighted so strongly, it is because we see that youth – and perhaps especially young women and highly educated people – is something we have to compete for today. In the statement last year we pointed to: «For years to come, the management of human resources is at least as important for districts as the management of natural resources.» Creating more profitable enterprises with attractive jobs will continue to be a key element of rural policy. But as the economy becomes increasingly knowledge-based, individuals and what exists and happens in the minds of people are becoming increasingly important. Of course, many new businesses are needed, but there are people and individuals who create businesses. Moving into an increasingly knowledge-based economy, the personal factor is becoming increasingly important. However, action work that matters because people choose to bet on a future in the districts can focus on something more than traditional district policies. How can you, for example, the municipality stimulates the presence and positive feelings of the home of a young woman? What opportunities do communities have to promote the open, vital and lush neighbourhoods that make it really attractive and exciting to live in and move to small places in the districts? A robust housing pattern with a vital and well-viable community requires a balanced population structure. Future opportunities are poor for communities with too low proportions of young people and women. We consider this person-focusing to be a new and important key element in regional policy efforts. Young people in general, and women and high skills in particular, are currently under-represented and under-prioritized in many places. We want to do our part so that more young people have the opportunity to live and bet in the districts. Today, many young people want to live in the districts but do not have a chance to do so. We must take these young people seriously and ensure that they are given a real freedom of choice. But the main thing is not that as many people as possible live in the districts throughout their lives. It is quite possible that many travel from their home to work or study elsewhere — often abroad — during periods of life. Individuals as well as local communities need new impulses, new skills and new experiences. The challenge is to give young people such a connection to their home that they very much want to return after a few years, and perhaps bring them back with them both a high level of professional competence, useful professional experience and family experience. Efforts towards young people, women and relocaters must be based on the fact that these groups include people who differ in attitudes, life situations and life phases. We will therefore develop a differentiated policy that works for most different types of young people and women. And we're not just looking for those who've grown up in the districts. We also need to get young people — and a little bit older — with no initial connection to places in the districts. I am well in line with recent trend research when I expect that more and more urban people will prefer to leave the big cities and choose to live and live in very small but very quality of life places. We see a number of challenges we need to address in terms of the district-oriented youth initiative. Many new types of job offer are not available today, and a number of young people need to be able to create their own jobs. It is about meeting the consequences of the educational explosion, it is about developing the relationship to the home site so that young people want to move back once they have acquired education, professional experience and family, it is about creating and making visible attractive communities that are so young people today want them. Our youth effort consists of many parts that hang together in a larger system. The idea is to create a generation of young people who are independent and self-held and who will and can create themselves. It starts at school with, among other things, entrepreneurship. The initiative goes beyond the school system, through the instrument with its own scholarships for youth and into new businesses and a forward-looking business in the districts. Our youth initiative should embrace the wide variety of concerns that determine whether young people find it possible and attractive to move to the districts. Coordination of sectoral policies relevant to the location of young people is one of the main objectives of the broad rural policy. Together with several departments, we are developing a wide range of strategies and actions in the district youth initiative. But we also have high expectations for cooperation with youth organisations in different areas. For the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the interaction with such non-governmental organisations is new in the area of regional policy. We believe that organisations are actors that can make a huge contribution to promoting desired development in the districts. Organisations are close to those involved, and a capacity for implementation that is invaluable in the efforts of young people we want. I think it is generally important for young people to be given the opportunity to participate more and to be given more influence in matters relating to their own everyday lives. As part of the outreach, we will therefore, for example, be able to set up reference groups of young people to provide advice to both departments, municipalities and municipalities. We expect the advice of young people to be particularly valuable in making municipalities and communities more attractive to young people. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs has set up the Youth Democracy Forum. The Forum consists of representatives from various youth organisations and youth communities. They shall provide advice and input to the governmental authorities on how children and young people can gain greater influence in society. I know that a lot of good work is also being done in this field at local and regional level, for example. through the establishment of the Youth Council and the municipal board of young people. I'm of the opinion that it's at these levels that the heaviest effort has to be carried out. Individual municipalities have the best opportunity to have close contact with young people. It's only local that you can get to the measures that create home bonds. Only cooperation measures in the districts can promote the good feelings that can later be so crucial if you choose to move to the districts. Among the many reasons that determine the choice of place of residence, probably the opportunities for work and income are one of the most important. I am concerned that young people meet the local business community in such a way that they see opportunities to choose education that matches the local offer. This requires good cooperation between school and business. But in the work on this school-nutrition initiative, we may be most engaged in entrepreneurship at school. Over the years, many have tried to contribute to the creation of more young people rather than workers. However, there is much new in the large-scale national initiative on entrepreneurship that the Government launched on 19 March this year. Both the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Local Government and the Ministry of Industry are actively participating. The aim is for schools, communities and businesses to work closely together to create active local environments and new jobs. Knowledge of the establishment of new enterprises shall be integrated into the whole education system. Otherwise, we follow up many other good individual actions. We support District Active School and the Youth Companies Association. The new framework plans for the basic training of teachers will strengthen entrepreneurship in school. We've set up a system of founding scholarships especially for young people, and very much as I'll discuss later on in the discussion of business and knowledge, aims to make it easier for young people to use their education in the districts. We need to facilitate more apprenticeships in the districts. Many enterprises are too small and too one-sided to be approved by the vocational training office in the county. My department has invited Hedmark County Municipality, the training office in Hedmark and the SND Office in the county to launch a pilot project in the north-east region in accordance with the possibilities provided by the existing legislation and legislation. The aim is to bring more small enterprises together on vocational training and thus ensure the recruitment of local businesses. If the experience from this experiment is positive, we will consider extending the experiment to other regions. Good cultural and leisure services are important for the development of districts as attractive housing options, and the development of such services is one of our areas of action in the youth initiative. More than one team argues that such offers are essential if you are to ensure youth housing in the districts. The government will continue and initiate new projects to strengthen cultural provision in the districts. These include: the allocation of own resources for cultural and recreational activities in the districts as part of our 1999 regional initiative, and several measures are targeted specifically at young people. We have already started a scheme to train young people in 62 municipalities as what we call 'positiveness agents'. The aim is to strengthen the role of young people in maintaining and improving the local environment. The government considers it important to launch urban development projects that can contribute to the development of an attractive living environment — with a ‘cultural infrastructure’ characterised by optimism, vitality and high quality of life. We have also started a job of profiling and marketing places in the districts. There are too many prejudices and negative myths about ‘land life’. We want to show what diversity and what openness and vigour we can find in many places in District Norway. Women's efforts have been an important part of district policy for many years. Although recent research suggests that regional female emigration is not a general problem, extra efforts towards women are not less important than before. There's still a female deficit in many municipalities. The whole of 376 of the country's 435 municipalities – i.e. 86 pst. – have a deficit of women aged 20–39 years, most of whom are district municipalities. In addition, women are significantly under-represented in e.g. many parts of the world of work and business. Within the framework of the women’s initiative, the main task is to further develop the ordinary district policy arrangements and the instrumentation. District girls take a great deal of education, and the best thing we do for women is perhaps to succeed in creating more attractive jobs for people with high levels of education. Otherwise, we have a number of particularly women-settered measures, with particular emphasis on job development. Particular importance is attached to the measures we have implemented in the area of institutional support, including: at 40 pst. the establishment grant shall be awarded to women and the reinforcement granted to the network credit scheme. In this year’s presentation, I would like to focus on one of these measures: the years of district women. 1999 is District Women's Year. This was decided by the Government, on the initiative of the Stortinget in 1997. My department is primarily responsible for the implementation of the marking. But we cooperate with several departments as well as SND, SIVA and the Kvinner Viser Vei Foundation. District women in 1999 are a mark to make women in the districts visible and to contribute to the increased use of their resources. The years of district women are, above all, an attitude-oriented mark that will provide an additional boost to the more concrete measures we are taking in the women’s initiative. We have encouraged policy and administrative decision-makers, businesses and organisations, local, regional and central, to focus on their own policy-making and how it affects women's situation in districts. A national seminar staff is being set up, which is a combination of local and regional initiatives. Here, women in the districts are a major theme, and I have expectations that this staff will provide many creative input. There is a lot of positive happening in the districts in connection with the years of district women. It is important and valuable in itself that women — and men — take responsibility for their situation. Let me also mention the Mass to Women Show Weighing at Hamar in August this year. There we will also participate, with a stand and a seminar, to further highlight the importance of investing in women in District Norway. There is good cooperation here with the Ministry of Agriculture, the County Agriculture Department in Hedmark and the SND. It is the exploitation of the rich supply of natural resources that has laid the foundation for the pattern of living we have, and the welfare society we live in today. Much of our country's export income is also from businesses and industries in the districts that are based on the exploitation of different natural resources. It's enough to mention examples like fishing, metals and forests. Much of this business is very advanced in its fields and is technologically at the forefront worldwide. The Norwegian Export Council has recently presented figures showing the importance of districts for exports of traditional goods. The three western provinces of Hordaland, Moor and Romsdal and Rogaland are on top, and More and Romsdal were the counties with the largest export growth last year, with a growth of 42.7 p.m. However, large parts of production are made up of little-processed products where the main competitive factors are price and volume. Many of the districts’ businesses are stuck in the so-called commodity clamp and are heavily exposed to international economic cycles and large price fluctuations. Competition means that businesses have to constantly look around for new ways to produce goods at even lower costs. Automation and reduction of employment are usually the way businesses need to look for in order to maintain profitability. In my opinion, there are still great opportunities for increased value creation in the established industry in the districts. Due to a high level of costs, Norway can hardly compete in the long term only on price and volume. However, by increasing the level of processing and the content of knowledge in the products, it should be possible to create special variants and niche products for which the world market is willing to pay in the future. Although commodity-based business remains important in many communities, this is not enough to ensure stable income and secure long-term living conditions in District Norway. Attractive jobs and the desire to develop businesses require a two-fold effort, one in which we are able to deliver a strong increase in the knowledge content and adaptability of existing production and business and, at the same time, effectively contribute to the development of much more new enterprises and in new industries in the districts. As information, knowledge and competences become increasingly important for profitability and competitiveness, the basis for industrial activities is mainly based on the harvesting of raw materials. In order for these establishments to maintain their share of the value added, the value of the products must be increased by increasing the knowledge content of the individual products. This can be achieved in several ways. In the first place, it is necessary to exploit the knowledge and competences built up over many years. There are good opportunities for the development of knowledge-based jobs by combining modern science and scientific methods with the regional excellence developed through the exploitation and processing of local natural resources by several generations. The competence and level of knowledge of district enterprises can be improved by the deliberate recruitment of skilled labour. But the paradox is that many of our district companies have problems recruiting skilled workers, while high-skilled young people lack and demand relevant work in the districts. Recruitment problems have many causes, but one of the problems is that students and students often have little knowledge of local and regional opportunities. In the competition for youth, the district industry needs to be able to better profile itself to highly educated young people. In addition, it is necessary to upgrade the existing competence of enterprises. The implementation of the skills reform will generally help us to come from word to action. The reform of skills will result in a greater need for educational institutions to adapt to the needs of the labour and business sectors. Developing skills and disseminating technology is a priority task. And there is now a shift from support to physical investment to what is commonly called ‘soft investment’. This concerns, among other things: on support for innovation and product development and on assistance for training and various types of organisation for cooperation between enterprises. This is a development I join, and want to put even greater weight behind it. I will discuss some of these measures later in the presentation. First, I want to elaborate on what I said about the need to invest even more in future business in the districts. Industrial change is high in all developed countries. During a 10-year period, about one-off disappears. half of the enterprises and much of the remaining business undergoes fundamental changes in the organisation and content of both production and the relationship with the market. It is socio-economically important that public organisation also concentrate in district policy on the business and types of enterprises we will live on in 10-20 years. Growth in modern economies will increasingly come from knowledge-intensive industrial activities, across the old division between primary industries, industry and services. The focus of knowledge intensive industrial activities exists in the frontier country between the high-tech industry and the provision of skills-based services. Modern information and communication technologies reduce peripheral disadvantages and less importance is attached to the production of Røst or Silicon Valley as long as the product meets the requirements of the international market. In my opinion, there is a high potential for innovation and value creation through the efficient use of information and communication technologies. Good knowledge of the opportunities offered by this technology will be a critical competitiveness factor for business. It is therefore a major challenge, not least for the instrumentation, to use this as an active tool to strengthen rural settlement and value creation. A significant part of the innovation in Norwegian business must come in small businesses and in technology and product areas that we do not know today. The Government’s Action Plan for Small Enterprises addresses many of the framework conditions that are particularly important for new entrants, innovation and small businesses. The action plan is the start of a long-term initiative to facilitate the creation of new businesses. In my view, Norwegian business is generally well equipped to continue to operate in a number of areas of the world market. We have one of the highest educated people in the world. We have an open economy, and Norwegian business has always been internationally oriented. This also applies to the highest degree to the business community in the districts. However, there are some signs of concern on behalf of the district industry, in particular in view of the new requirements for the knowledge content of goods and services that future markets will provide. Research shows that enterprises in the districts are evenly below the average in terms of the proportion of employees with higher education. This is one of several signs that may indicate that the main challenge in the fight for the housing pattern is the struggle for competence. Therefore, drug use will be more targeted at actions that can help to ensure that districts are not lagging behind in the development of competences. The Ministry’s work on the development of competences takes place both through the ordinary instruments and through its own programming efforts. Programme initiatives directed, inter alia, by: SND, the State Agriculture Bank and the Norwegian Research Council contribute to the making available of important knowledge to small and medium-sized enterprises in the districts. A lot of different bets are going on. Most people are so familiar that I don't want to say anything about them here. I want to draw up one measure. As a further development of the SME competence programme, plans are now being made for a new programme called ‘SME Student’. The idea is that students should carry out tasks in close contact with enterprises. Student projects may provide a taste of what highly educated people can contribute to enterprises, while at the same time providing feedback to educational institutions on the knowledge and skills needs of businesses. In addition, the NT Programme is an excellent example in an effective way of using skills development in the field of business innovation. The NT Programme is a programme for innovation and technology dissemination in North Norway to contribute to innovation in Nordic technology companies. This shall be done by investing capital, contributing with competence and developing networks between enterprises and between enterprises and competent environments. There is still a cultural gap between higher education institutions and industry, not least small and medium-sized enterprises in the districts. We will therefore step up efforts to bridge this gap through our own programmes of development of competences and dissemination of research and by reviewing the framework and guidelines for the activities of educational institutions. The measures I have mentioned are measures aimed at the development of the established business community. This is a very important and necessary effort. Nevertheless, I believe that publicising perhaps all the most important role – including in district policy – is to contribute to delivering innovation and facilitating the businesses that are not yet established. Efforts in this area must be focused both on influencing attitudes towards creating something new and on understanding the skills that industry will face in the future. In particular, we need to provide infrastructure that can take care of the start-ups. Research parks and other regional innovation environments constitute a major potential for research-based innovation. Compared to other countries, Norway has invested little in the commercialisation of R & D. We will therefore – together with other departments – contribute to increasing the commitment to research-based innovation. SND is the main player in our commitment to competence and knowledge development in district business. SND has now established its own district office in all counties. They thus have the best starting point to assist enterprises in increasing their skills and knowledge content in production and products. SND has entered into a separate cooperation agreement with the Norwegian Research Council and the Export Council to facilitate business access to the research system, to new technologies and to new markets. In addition to its traditional activities as a district property developer, the Society for Industrial Growth – SIVA – has given mandate and resources to engage in different research and knowledge parks in relation to the university and higher education environments. The aim of the SIVA is to be an actor in the dissemination of knowledge between the research communities and the business community in the districts. The latest and perhaps most exciting now is the development of the so-called food gardens in some selected smaller places around the country. The aim is for SIVA to participate initially in the establishment of 20. The purpose of the business gardening effort is to facilitate the development of new jobs in competence-based activities in districts in places where there is willingness and ability to invest in the development of knowledge-based enterprises. The business environment shall provide a framework for this by providing premises, access to information and communication technologies, various joint services and a developing professional and social environment. Business gardens will also be able to offer, inter alia: means of distance learning and telemuting. To date, seven sites have been selected to participate in pre-projects for the establishment of a business garden. In 1999, we have the objective of entering into formal cooperation in another 10 projects. The role of business environments in creating attractive jobs for young people could be important. We have great expectations of this measure. Therefore, the Government is pleased that the Stortinge gave its support to the nutrition campaign, as it is set at 30 million. DKr until 1999. Much may indicate that the new growth industries have received too little attention. The Ministry of Local Affairs, in cooperation with the SND and the State Agricultural Bank, will address this with a view to steering the existing instruments more effectively towards such knowledge-intensive industries. In the 1999 state budget, 14 million are reserved. to promote enterprises in the field of competence-based business services in districts. The aim is to distort the use of the instrument from physical investment to more knowledge-based investment. We are also trying to achieve this through the work of the Northern Norway Commission of the Government and the follow-up of, among others. ‘Nursing strategies for North Norway’. Here we work with the national community to focus on conditions that can contribute to good forward-looking development. We have worked on issues affecting both the Murmansk corridor, IT, fish and agriculture. The next meeting shall be held on 30 June in Kirkenes. In summary, this means that in the future a higher priority will be given to the establishment and further development of knowledge-intensive industries. This means: Firstly, if necessary, new and adapted programmes will be developed through the tools for focusing on knowledge-intensive industries. Strategic efforts targeting young people, women and skills development are important but not sufficient to meet the challenges in the districts. We rely on the content of all policy areas to support the objectives of regional and district policy. At the same time, broad efforts are essential for the success of ambitions in relation to young people, women and skills. It's the whole of the government's policy that decides what the outcome is. In the Waksenås Declaration, we made it clear that a wide range of regional policy efforts are needed. In concrete terms, this means that the Government will pursue the regional policy objectives both in relation to each sector and at an overall cross-sectoral level. We need to meet the challenges of increasing efficiency requirements and market thinking with new governance – not to stop rational efficiency or market organisation, but to avoid unintended negative impacts on districts. The problem is that increased market orientation and competition may be good for supply in key areas, but may weaken the choice of people in districts who do not constitute interesting markets for private business. Similarly, cost-reducing efficiency improvements could be good for each sector, while rural impacts could be job losses. This sets out governance requirements that we will meet in three ways: There needs to be more rural and regional policies in sectoral policies, more decentralisation and more room for action for regional actors. We must strengthen the regional dimension of sectoral policy. But how are we to ensure the development of infrastructure and welfare services in areas of the country where such measures do not pay themselves? In order to maintain the main features of the housing pattern, it is important that, in some cases, the public is willing to intervene with additional measures and resources that may prevent undesirable developments. This may apply in some cases where the population base is too low to pay for commercial services and in cases where the costs of investment in, for example: infrastructure becomes disproportionately large for small communities. This is a major challenge for sectoral policy. We see that different instruments have been used, e.g. purchases of private services, tenders and negotiations, self-financing funds and concession terms. It is time we looked together at how such management of social responsibility works for the districts. The requirement that the regional impact of policy changes be assessed before changes are decided is a way of ensuring greater consistency between rural policy objectives and other national targets. I can already record that, in a number of key policy issues, the impact of district policy has been well taken care of. In the recent energy report, for example: The interests of one-sided industrial sites and the powerful industry have been thoroughly addressed. In the ongoing work on agricultural policy and transport policy, the rural aspects will be given great importance. In the health sector, work is being done on telemedicine and incentives for improved medical coverage in the districts in close cooperation between the departments concerned. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is also running a series of incentives under its own direction. Despite increased access to medical services in recent years, we have a high number of vacancies in both primary and specialist healthcare. At the end of 1998, it was about the same. 900 vacancies, divided into 200 in municipal health services and 700 in specialist health services. The problems in municipal health services are particularly evident in district municipalities. In the general strengthening of rural policy in the budget of more than half a billion, there were 200 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure incurred by the Commission in connection with the implementation of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the European Regional Development Fund Following the involvement of all departments, a number of important measures were accelerated and given higher priority than they would otherwise have been given. The measures were presented in connection with the budget proposal last autumn, so I do not want to go into detail now, but just notice that the measures are in good hands and are being realised in turn and in order. We therefore have good experience so far in the efforts to achieve more regional policy in sectoral policy. The regional dimension of sectoral policy is clearer and stronger than in the long term – which is an important objective of this government. I am sure that the Storting will also register this as the individual cases are dealt with. The coordination ambitions of the Government at national level are parallel at regional and local level. In the context of traditional district policy instruments, we have long traditions of decentralisation. This applies primarily to job creation and industrial development in the broad sense. The county councils with their planning responsibilities and management of instruments have been the central development actor at regional level — gradually supplemented by SND district offices on the purely business aspects. Traditional district policy systems are now managed on the basis of the country’s own objectives and strategies, and not by the state’s detailed governance. The Government’s ‘Simplifying Norway’ project is also important for business development and value creation in the districts. At the centre of this initiative is the modernisation and efficiency of the public sector, less bureaucracy, simplification of rules, greater regional and local space for action, and not least a user-oriented management that facilitates business development. Regional development programmes are an important tool to stimulate new and constructive forms of cooperation between the counties, state states, SND and industry at the state level. The government attaches great importance to the active involvement of enterprises and business organisations in the development of the programmes. The government's ambition is to increase the scope for regional policy development. This doesn't mean we're going to end up with nationwide policy. However, we should look into whether selected parts of the State sector’s instruments can be managed to a greater extent according to regional objectives and strategies. There is a good economy in actively stimulating regional growth and welfare. Otherwise, job creation, education, transport and infrastructure — as well as the provision of welfare — must be seen in a coherent way from a comprehensive view of regional development opportunities. Therefore, we will also assess whether regional actors can become more involved in the coordination of state instruments, which are important development instruments in the regional context. These are more long-term questions we're dealing with right now. For the time being, the Government has actually stimulated obliging cross-sectoral cooperation measures through a new entry in the State budget for this year of 100 million. kr. The deadline for applications has recently expired and a large number of proposals are currently under consideration in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. In the state budget for the autumn, I will come back to how this new measure has turned out in practice. A key issue in district policy is that a number of measures in one or more sectors can be considered to be sensible in isolation, but in some cases a problem for districts. This is not least seen in the issue of location of government services and jobs. At regular intervals, we can read in the newspapers about public offices that are laid down in a municipality, or moved to a larger place. This could result in both less accessible services and fewer jobs in the area. A single move need not be a problem. However, if two or three state agencies do so simultaneously and in the same location, it may have serious effects. Places hit like this are easily entering the negative depopulation spiral we've seen evolve a lot of places. The Government has therefore decided to develop an overall localisation policy for State activities. This is such a big and complex subject that I allow myself to go a little bit extra deep into it right now. We have to acknowledge that we are facing difficult balances and cross expectations: On the one hand, the establishments are subject to requirements for profitable and efficient operation. The telecommunications sector has shown that this has provided cheaper and better services for both the population and business.On the other hand, the population, especially in smaller municipalities in the districts, feels that government jobs are disappearing and that access to public services can be reduced, as a result of decisions taken in the sectors individually. A state localisation policy must balance all these considerations and strike a balance between user-friendliness and efficient service production. My position is not that everything should stay old, and that all efficiency measures are of the evil, but that businesses should be better placed to find new solutions and adaptations that do not meet the needs of users. In the work that is now being started, we are faced with two main questions. On the one hand, we will work to ensure that government tasks covering a national market are increasingly located outside Oslo. In such cases, the choice of location should be assessed in particular in the light of the competence and availability requirements of the establishment. It goes without saying that if services require a high level of competence in order to be carried out, they must be located in places that have a large enough labour market to provide that competence. The directorates outside Oslo are examples of this, such as the Oil Directorate in Stavanger, the Fisheries Directorate in Bergen and the Directorate of Nature Management in Trondheim. In such cases cities will, for example: headquarters of the county, be natural sites. However, we also have examples of more standardised services, such as: record-keeping tasks can be produced well in some minor places. Examples include the Brønnøsund Registers, the Registration Centre and the National Library of Mo and the Kirkenes Register of Contributions. Not in any of these cases does the public need a lot of personal presence. Contact is often written and formalised. So these are examples of the centralisation of services, but in the districts. Examples also show how a conscious user can use modern information technology in localisation policy. Having said that, at the same time, I believe that state enterprises should be far more innovative in seeking untraditional organisational solutions. SND is a very interesting route when it is now specifically considered that group tasks are assigned to regional offices with a special advantage. Active use of IT solutions can be a very important tool here. I also have great expectations for the work that the Minister of Labour and Administration has done on the possibility of decentralisation using IT. There is no reason for Oslo to be the only and natural choice for the location of tasks that have the whole country as a market or that are to serve nation-wide businesses. This is why the Government has broken the principle that new state tasks as a general rule should be located outside Oslo, and that location to the capital must have very special reasons. The second main issue of a government localisation policy is how to deal with the forthcoming reorganisation and efficiency measures in nation-wide state institutions that operate locally and regionally. Several state-wide businesses, such as the tax, social security and police action, are preparing for conversions that could have significant regional significance. The Government has decided that decisions relating to such processes of change are suspended until the current guidelines for the handling of localisation cases by the departments have been revised. Such guidelines will be available in a short time. However, I would like to stress that this does not mean that the Government is stopping the conversion processes that have already been adopted by the Storting. In addition, we will build on localisation principles adopted by the Stortinget. Individually, the changes in state agencies are often well-founded, but we need to see them in context to ensure that not all of the floors drop offers and jobs in the same places. Here my ministry has a special coordinating responsibility to ensure that users' needs are met locally and regionally across the sectors. I am convinced that cooperation solutions can go much further than we have seen now. In particular, small outlying municipalities are very vulnerable to such a slowdown in State activities. Efficiency and rationalisation processes cost, and as a municipal minister, I am committed to limiting the loss of jobs for small municipalities and communities. For government services in district municipalities affected by country-wide structural changes, certain requirements will therefore be imposed: Firstly, it must be obvious that the user-friendliness and accessibility of the services themselves are maintained. Thirdly, the agencies shall be required to assess the co-location of services through so-called service bureau solutions in order to ensure local presence. The government has started work to facilitate service bureau solutions as a general scheme, based on local initiatives and cooperation between municipalities and state agencies. State enterprises must assume co-responsibility for the conversion problems they leave behind in small district municipalities. If necessary, this may lead to the contribution of the establishments by means of conversion, such as: Both the Defence and Telenor have had a good practice. I want the regional costs of restrictions and rationalisation to be involved in the assessments used for structural changes in the major networks. Just as businesses have a responsibility to maintain quality of service and human resources, they should also have a social responsibility for those places where they descend. Small municipalities in the districts who often experience a slow but persistent job losses must be able to receive conversion assistance as compensation for this. This may, for example: the need to enter into discussions with the municipalities about conversion assistance, such as compensation for lost jobs, even if the changes do not take place rapidly and on a large scale. These issues should be further addressed in the context of a thorough assessment of the regional impact of the conversions. Among other things, the defence stands in a special position and the principles set out above cannot be fully applied to this activity. The Government will also initiate work to assess whether and in what way the State can and should take a more active ownership role in the state undertakings and between the departments concerned and the special-law entities in relation to localisation issues. These companies are in a different position than the state agencies that I have mentioned here. The objective in relation to state enterprises and special-law companies will be to clarify the scope for action of the Government to pursue a more comprehensive localisation policy within the framework of, inter alia, the ownership message. It would be natural to look at this in the context of the review of how social responsibility has been performed in state enterprises, as decided by the Stortinge in the context of the treatment of ownership notification. Finally, I would like to inform briefly about the ongoing revision of the scope of district development grants and reduced employers' fees. The new scope of DU grants will be transmitted to ESA by 4 May and implemented from 1 January next year. The government will also carry out a thorough review of the scope of reduced employers’ fees. The EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, has, as it is known, argued that this scheme is contrary to the State aid rules of the EEA Agreement. It has been contested by the Norwegian Government and it is now up to the EFTA Court to decide the case. The decision is likely to come within a few weeks. Even if ESA’s decisions were to be confirmed, the main features of the regionally differentiated employer’s fee could be continued as today. The Government also proposes that the scope of a reduced employer’s fee, regardless of the outcome of legal proceedings, will be revised with effect from 1 January 2000. In the end, I would like to highlight that there are two areas in particular which I will give special priority to the coming year. It is the youth initiative, with particular emphasis on cooperation with youth organisations and measures in the field of school and business, and it is the broad district policy, with a focus on our new state localisation policy. The focus on youth was also an important theme in last year’s rural and regional policy presentation. In the field of district policy, such personal focus is something that is entirely new, and the focus on this target group deserves more attention and effort. We are satisfied with the good cooperation we have between several departments, and We place great emphasis on the involvement of non-governmental organisations/youth organisations in relation to school and business, including among others. systematic cooperation at the political level with industrial development in rural areas has been given a clear boost to the emergence of attractive jobs for young people and potential repatriation needs more action in the field of awareness-raising work and culture, leisure and rural development in 1999 is the ‘Years of District Women’, with a focus on raising awareness of the resource potential of women in District Norway; The government's new state location policy is a matter of great faith. The government is facing turbulent regional policy challenges in the context of reorganisation and efficiency in state activities. This is particularly a problem for small districts that are vulnerable to job losses. Substantial conversion instruments are used in large and dramatic conversions. But even less, step-by-step degressions over time become a problem in such municipalities, and the government's efforts to counter centralisation are weakened. The main elements of our new localisation policy are that individual state enterprises must provide a qualitatively equivalent service offer even after the conversion, actively seek to add new work tasks to places that are subject to downstretching obligations to invite the municipality and other government agencies to cooperation solutions, for example. are required, in the form of public service agencies, to discuss appropriate compensation for the closure of jobs with the municipality. The resources shall be used for local nutrient development: Of course, these two areas of action that I have outlined here are not enough to achieve the high and demanding objectives we have set ourselves in district policy. But I think they're central to success. I am a great optimist in the future of the districts. Basically, district policy is about facilitating freedom of choice — freedom of choice to choose a place of residence, and for individuals to realize what they think is a good life. I believe that more and more people will understand the importance of rural areas and that Norway cannot afford to fail in rural policy. With such broad support in the back and more appropriate instruments, I believe that not least young people will be investing in a future in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e545	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs on regional and regional policy be discussed at a later meeting — and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e559	«Forty and finished» was a title of the United Nations in February. The article described the data industry and a reality where staff aged 40 to 50 could experience finding their offices emptied after having had a vacation – except for a brown envelope offering a final package of a couple of years’ wages to leave the post. At the same time, you employ newly-trained people in the job. This describes a working life in which there is no room for anyone other than the most pronounced, the most newly educated and those who are willing to put the job ahead of everything. Is there room for family in such a working life? Will there be room for disabled people or for a normal 50- or 60-year-old with normal working capacity? Is this description a case-by-case that says nothing about the trend in time? Is there a particular phenomenon in a particular sector, or is there one of the expressions that there are major structural changes that can be fully integrated into the labour market? I think it points to the last, and therefore is very concerned about how we deal with this in a whole. Instead, the Enoxes explained that it may have been a change of value in relation to how to prioritize time. It might also be important to see it in relation to it. Work for all has been widely agreed in Norway. Similarly, there has been a broad consensus that those who, for health reasons, cannot be economically active must have a social security to live on. There are two main structural elements in our society. In a modern working life and in a globalised and open economy, both of these areas are under strong political pressure. Changes will happen. If we don't have the clear objective that work for everyone and a safety system for those who can't participate in the business will be in place, the differences will increase, and it will be a much harder job to put this travel agency back in place if pieces of it go away. Is the increase in disability fatigue part of this trend, and in which case is there a framework? In the Norwegian Institute for Social Research magazine No. 2 for 1998 they have produced a report showing the relationship between occupation and long-term absence. And there are different reports that show that there are differences between different professions and different socio-economic groups in both sick leave and disability. In St. prp. No 1 for 1998-99 from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, we can read on page 12 about disability and medical rehabilitation, and that in recent years there has been a strong and worrying growth in sick leave and the availability of new disability pensioners, after a certain decrease in the early 1990s. The government points to both the welfare policy and the macroeconomic problems that the increase leads to and that it will bring down a sample to look at this in a broad context. This is necessary because some of the problems here are the tendency to break down completely and make decisions in individual areas. As a result, in an attempt to limit expenditure in one area, it may be offset elsewhere, for example: in the relationship between sickness benefits, unemployment benefits and disability benefits. SV has long wanted to coordinate these areas, and it is now signalled the connection of several batches, so it has to be assumed that something is being done here to perform the necessary global action in this area. With regard to labour market developments in general, I am more uncertain as to whether there is a political will to shape a working life that takes full account of and focuses on people and society. The pressure on the right and the work and business in hard work, open competition is increasing. Agreements concluded between the Government of Bondevik and the Right-wing Party on, inter alia, reduced wages and salaries for part-time workers and reviewing the labour environment law and, in particular, the overtime provisions show that there is a willingness to get out of work. I choose to focus on this, because it is the major policy trends and trends that are important to address. The expected submission of the Blaalid Committee on Free Temporary Use in almost all occupations is also another sign. Will any of these proposals that weaken workers' rights in these areas make working life more accessible to people with disabilities? Nope. Getting an even greater pressure to work more overtime will help keep people out of work and perhaps also exploding more people. In addition, this is contrary to the government's stated goal of giving people more time to family and children. Babies' parents, especially fathers, work a lot overtime. Many of them are in that part of working life where the requirements to set up at any time and for as long as possible are strongly present. Many of them are in the beginning of a professional career in the trades and industries where it is so exciting and interesting that it is not stressful in itself to work a lot. The time horizon may be short, and competition may be hard. However, if the rules of the labour market are changed more and more in a direction where full flexibility is required of all, very many people will have to suffer long before retirement. There is also reason to fear that the differences in pay and employment will be much greater than what we see today, if it is the elite team that will set the standard for what it is possible to demand of an employee at any time. Better conditions and wages for the freshest and fastest can quickly create worse conditions for the others. This is also contrary to the government's stated objectives of minor differences. What this will result from pressure on the level of disability of the individual is, of course, easy to see. If we increase the number, we know that the pressure on the payout level is increasing accordingly. The working life of the future requires new and constantly changing competences, not always higher-level competence requirements, but change and other competences. Competence is the most important competitive advantage for both companies and persons. Therefore, it is important that we put ourselves in a position to meet this requirement, that we experience inspiration for employees and not just as an extra burden. Therefore, it is important to ensure that the desire and capacity for development of competences are increased. It requires that the working environment has not used up the employees in such a way that this is perceived as a new and insurmountable requirement. Time pressure and workload and inadequacy in work may make it difficult in practice to get from and get this completely needed grip. For many, working life is perceived as participating in the Norwegian championship every day, demanding that it be better every time in increasingly tough competition. There's no room for a single rest slice. And the coaching team, the masseur, the physiotherapist and the support device are not in place. In periods of life, this can go, but in length, it's unsustainable. For society as a whole, it is wasted resources not to make use of the working capacity and competences of the entire population. On the other hand, for individual enterprises, public or private, it may be profitable to squeeze out labour not providing 100 pst. In the public sector and, in particular, care professionals, it is often stated that the feeling of never stretching to, never getting finished and going on a piecework of professional and human quality requirements for the job is the most stressful. On 5 November 1998, the Labour Inspectorate took action in all the country’s hospitals, and they found a lot to put their finger on. The tongue lift creates bad backs, damaged shoulders, high sick leave and disability. In many hospitals, employees were not even sure to get assistance for heavy lifting in a situation where there should be two about the job; they were alone. We know that until next year it's actually going to be even fewer to do these jobs. Is this perspective when the framework for the municipal sector is added, including what we calculate in relation to disability benefits and sick pay? Or is it lost and invisible and thus powdered in a debate on efficiency and competitive outsourcing? Do we follow the line of work consistently, or is the other consideration that gets the most counting? How can it be related that someone reaches, for example, unemployment increases and unemployment is as low as it is now, does it not take the opportunity to go massive and early into action and empowerment in relation to people who, for some reason, are unable to cope with the demands of today's working life, precisely the group that they fear will be out of work and will not cope with competition? It would be following the taskbar. Then it would be a cheaper solution in the long term. Three years of genuine follow-up and action, rather than social security for the rest of your life, must be a way of thinking. But instead, we feel that the measures are being cut, and those who have the worst odds, such as drug addicts, are not getting help. In addition, requirements are required, e.g.: to drug users that they should have completed treatment before taking action. How can it be possible that this is right for everyone? Can it not be that precisely such requirements prevent an out-of-patient form of work, where work training could be a necessary and essential part of the treatment? If we first focus on short-term expenditure and not on the long-term objective, we're going to block. The most important thing for me is to clarify the main direction of government policy in this area in the form of this interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e589	The number of under-pensioners has increased markedly in recent years. It is an extra cross-thinking that this has happened at a time when the labour market situation has been good, with strong increases in employment and reduced unemployment. Today, we have over 255,000 disability pensioners. At the beginning of 1999, there were 11,600 more disability pensioners than one year earlier. New access to the disability pension scheme is now higher than in the early 1990s. This gives cause for concern. Developments in the labour market and changes in the age structure of the population may pose a risk that the increase may continue. We can't afford to push employed people out of work, neither human nor socio-economic. In the long term, the growth in access to the disability pension will help to weaken the economic base of the public, social security and welfare systems and to strengthen the trend towards more and more pensioners per year. economically active. In order to prevent social problems and increasing inequalities in the population, it is necessary to introduce measures to combat increasing sick leave and social exclusion. There is no simple, quick grip. We need a comprehensive analysis and a thorough discussion of causes and possible measures that could stop or at any time reverse such a development. It is a major challenge to maintain a high level of professional participation, both in the interests of individuals, in the interests of the business community and also in the interests of a space of action in public budgetary policy. There has been an increase in access to disability pensions in all age groups, with the exception of those over 62 years of age, where there has been a decrease. This is related to the fact that several people go over to the AFP. New arrivals have been highest in the 50-54 age group, and higher for women than for men. Among women, access has been highest in the age group 45-49 years, with 28 pst. increased from 1998 to 1999. In the case of young people under 30 years of age, no increase has been recorded in the last few years. From 1996 to 1997, there was an increase of 15 pst. in the number of disability pensioners under 30 years. Muscle and skeletal disorders and mental disorders are the main diagnostic groups. The number of new disability pensioners with musculo-skeletal disorders has been relatively constant, but it has been slightly increased when it comes to mental disorders. The Riksstrøgdeverket suggests that one third of the increase in new access to disability pension is a result of changes in population age. They also point out that about one fifth of the increase in the last year is due to shorter processing times. The number of untreated requirements decreased by 3000 in 1998. The changes in the rules on rehabilitation money have also contributed to an increase in the number of disability pensioners. Since July 1993, the duration of the rehabilitation allowance has been limited to one year as a general rule, but may be extended in certain cases. That the number of new disability pensioners increases at times when conditions in the labour market are good is a paradox. It is difficult to see the correlation between the labour market situation and developments in the number of disability pensioners. There is reason to believe that more people with health problems are working when conditions in the labour market are good. Numbers from the Swedish National Agency show an increase in the number of people with repeated sick leave in recent years. If we want there to be room in the working life of people who don't work 100 pst. At any time, we have to accept a relatively high level of absenteeism among some groups. In the long term, we also have to be able to assume that some of them are in default. Differences in living conditions are clearly expressed between those who have work and those who have trusted or have no connection to the working life. The Government will provide a thorough monitoring of differences in living conditions that will be presented to the Stortinget in a short time. as a result of different social relationships. Many of those who are out of work today for shorter or longer periods due to health problems are likely to be involved in working life if conditions are made more flexible. In the Smoothdown dialog, the Government will notify you of actions that may increase your work relationship, a softer workline. The government has launched several health and social measures to prevent permanent disability. The psychiatry escalation plan and the follow-up to the action plan for reducing drug use are both examples of responses to groups requiring close follow-up to return to work. Measures to get a health report back to work are important in order to prevent unemployability. This is where employers have a responsibility. Many employers have good experience with sick leave work. For more people to get to know the good examples, an idea bank has recently been created in the workplace. This is a cooperation project with the social partners and public administrations that will go over four years. The social security centre is responsible for following up the health care provider. The longer a person gets a health check, the greater the chance that the person will fall out of work for good. In the 1999 budget, funds were provided to strengthen the social security system’s work on follow-up to the health care provider and on the purchase of treatment capacity in the healthcare system. The availability of a successful outpatient response is often a close cooperation between different agencies and agencies. One must prevent sick people from being sent between etathans. In the rehabilitation message, the government has proposed that municipalities have a coordinating role. It is a commitment that the planning and implementation of measures take place in close cooperation with the individual user. The government has also taken initiatives to test user offices to coordinate actions and services for people in need of multi-ethical assistance. It is important to clear up as early as possible if there is a need for measures other than regular medical treatment in order for the health care provider to return to work. The Social Security Office has, among others: the ability to ask the employer to do well for possible measures at the workplace of the health care provider. The active health service system has led to a greater level of contact with the workplace by health care professionals. Employers also have a duty to prevent health problems and to prevent them from being eroded by systematic work on health, the environment and safety. If there is a need for professional rights, the Agency shall assume responsibility. In 1998, there were an average of 53 000 unemployed persons registered in the labour market seat. About 40,000 of these were at any time in some form of active action. The number of registered job-seekers has remained stable in the last few years. The number of people who are relocated to the social security system for the purpose of disability pension has been stable between 12 and 14 p.p., while there has been an increase in the number of people who are sent to work. In the disability action plan, the Government has outlined several measures to reduce disability access among the disabled and to facilitate increased professional participation. For some, the function assistant system has proved to be a good measure. These are attempts that will now be evaluated in view of a possible permanent scheme. There is no reason to believe that the strong growth in the number of recipients of sickness-related social security benefits in recent years is due to a general increase in the general population. As the interpellant points out, demands for change, increased tempo and more stress in the labour market may help to push out of working life workers with health problems. In order to gain more knowledge of this, the Government has cut down on a selection of representatives from the social partners to analyse the main challenges of tomorrow's working life, the aim of which is to discuss the need for flexibility that can meet both the business and the employees' needs. I see the time is running out. I hope that in one of my later articles, I will be able to focus a little more on the elderly as a group, and the debauchery that many there can experience. Finally, let me stress that there is a need for more knowledge about reasons for changes in disability access in order to be able to put in place the right measures that are the background for the Government to reduce a selection that will address the reasons for the growth of sick leave and new access to disability pension. It continued to identify the social and socio-economic role of the people’s welfare systems in terms of sickness and disability, assess the measures taken, and consider additional measures to reduce the number of beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e631	I would like to thank you for your answer. It is a very comprehensive issue we are discussing. The council said she would come back to some details, and that's good, because there are many pieces of this puzzle that need to be put in place. The Council of State said that it is difficult to see the relationship between the tight labour market that we have today and the large increase in the number of unemployed. That's one of the big questions we're asking ourselves. The fact that we actually also have a good deal of measures to correct this – not enough in the SV's opinion, and not good enough in the SV's opinion, but it is, after all, much done – is why I believe that we may also need to focus more strongly on how the working life functions as such. The question is whether the increased demands made in the labour market, the increased demands imposed on the vast majority of those involved, are now in the process of taking off in such a way that they create problems also for people who could actually have completed a full job in a normal course of work under slightly different conditions. That's why I also want to exclude the Government's position mainly in these areas, because I experience it so that this Government has opened up to discuss what I think is a weakening of the protection that employees have had in some areas that have been essential to keep the workload at a reasonable level, and that has made one expect one to be able to cope with normal work until retirement. I did not perceive any particular signals from the Council of State in those areas. But she said that she was busy creating a flexibility that is good for both the employee and the employer, and that is a starting point for which it is not so difficult to agree. For the time being, however, we have heard the most about these flexibility proposals, which are based on employers’ premises. I want to repeat what I tried to do a little bit, namely, the skills reform and skills requirements, which are very important. I believe it will be important for us now – both at the political level and at the level of employees and employers – to focus on this, so that we can achieve the important objectives and make sure that we create a space even in terms of work capacity and the ability to enter into this skills reform, and so that we do not use up all the capacity and all the forces in ordinary work in advance, because then I think we are missing out on something that is very important. And I think it's important – both on our part and on the part of the labour market – that there is room for this area, otherwise I think we'll experience both more untrained people and, not least, that we can't get the most important competitive advantage that Norwegian business needs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e646	Today, the interpellant has focused on a very important question, a question that addresses many individuals and families, who occupy many employers and jobs in this country, and on which it is important to focus in order to create as good a job relationship and as good a scheme as possible. In my pre-work on this interpellation, I was reminded of all the measures that have been taken, which have been tried out – and not all of them give the expected results. In the work of including as many as possible, one must be willing to accept that not everything is equally successful. In my first post, I recalled the action plan for reducing drug use, the action plan for stepping up psychiatry – I can also mention the strengthening seen in the work of the social services – the action plan for the disabled, the roll-out messages that are under way, ensuring a softer line of work, the creation of the idea bank, the wider possibilities for follow-up to the sick, not least through the active notification system, the responsibility position in the rehabilitation message and the commitment that is in the case of rehabilitation. I thought, therefore, that these are already many good measures. So Karin Andersen lists one of the last selections that's been cut down, and is skeptical about what's coming out of it. Let's wait for the reflections on flexibility to be found in the selection, where the employees are strongly represented. Then, as she does, I would like to stress how important it is that the reform of competences is not just a reform for those who are already successful in working life, but that it is also important to update and postulate and include even more, including the most deferred groups.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e659	The increase in the number of disabled people is more than worrying. When the Storting has stressed that all should be given the opportunity to work, it is recognised that work is of great importance to the individual's living conditions and quality of life. Work provides links with colleagues and a social network of invaluable value to most. Therefore, it is desirable to facilitate that those who do not have their full working capacity can also use their working capacity. We therefore need to encourage both workers and employers in different ways to facilitate a greater combination of work and social security. The Labour Party therefore wishes to receive a job grant to employers who employ long-term sick and disabled people with long-term disabilities. We also believe that we need to have a stronger follow-up to return to long-term sick people, and active health care must be used more than today. The scheme means that a person can combine sick leave with appropriate tasks and thus, to a greater extent, prevent a disability. However, instead of maintaining residual working capacity, it may seem that workers who do not have their full working capacity are being pushed out of a labour market adapted to the young person and efficient. A weakening of employee rights works in the same direction. The decision of the majority of the population to take from those with the lowest wage the right to sickness benefits, I am afraid, may weaken the motivation of those who try to use their residual working capacity, because they have been deprived of any other employee considers that natural employee rights. And by doing that, you signal that one considers these as second-class workers. I have understood that the national meeting in the Christian People's Party has asked that one look at this scheme again, and will ask the Social Minister whether she can promise the Government that it will come back with a proposal for a change in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e668	Like the other speakers, I also think this is a worrying problem. I have also noticed that the interpellant has really bothered to address the issue and has not given so many answers. One thing that is close to thinking about is that people are different in their ability to withstand pressure and cope with work, but at the same time we have collective bargaining agreements that impose the same reward. Clearly, if you are unable to make an effort equivalent to the salary you receive, there is a discord that can either cause you to be pushed out, or cause stress damage. So I'm going to think that the very strict tariff system we have, with little room for individual agreements, creates some of these pressure problems. Another thing that is close to thinking about in terms of stress diseases is that, as far as I know, gymnastics – otherwise now called physical exercise – has been given a more and more retiring place in schools during a period when young people are becoming more and more stationary and should have a greater need for this subject. When you get out of work, you'll find it easier to get such stress diseases. In this context, since this is largely about the care sector, at least for a long time I have called for a much larger recruitment of military negotiators, now called civil workers, to these slightly heavier promises. That's what I think they could have unimaginably good at, and that would lead to a relief for the ordinary staff. So I would recommend the Minister of Social Affairs to go in order to open up that opportunity to a greater extent than today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e677	The growth in the number of disabled persons is worrying. It is to some extent understandable, because it seems that working life is increasingly demanding the ability to work. A tight labour market also pushes people with low working capacity into working life, and these are the first to leave jobs. The labour market has changed, and many types of work that made relatively small demands on the worker are now scarcely available. While disability at a well-adult age is often the result of back problems related to occupational stress, the cause of disability among young people is often drug problems and mental problems. Some of these young people seem to have problems with reading and writing, and I think it is extremely important that the school be alert to such problems as early as possible and take the necessary steps to prevent these students from losing their jobs — yes, even leaving the workplace. It is dangerous to generalise, but often the background to disability among young people will be a complex of mental and possibly physical problems combined with the use of different drugs. This must also be shown in the way we try to tackle these problems. It is important to approach the issue on many fronts. In my view, a very important measure is active health care, i.e. that you can try to work during an ongoing medical report. It is important that the degree of ability to work can be tested before possible steps are taken that have been taken. Another essential point is cooperation between public authorities in such cases. It is important that social security offices, employment offices and social work offices are active here and maintain close contact. In order to improve contact between these services, a public service office is an important measure. It is also important with the user offices that are now under test. Work is a good thing, and most people want to take advantage of their work skills, for themselves and others. It is therefore important to facilitate the maximum utilisation of their labour force, whether large or small, so as to avoid undue dissatisfaction by persons with residual working capacity. This may require a high level of organisation and flexibility. These are individuals with different problems, different strengths and weaknesses. It is an important matter the interpellant has taken up, and I am pleased that the Council of State has so clearly stated that the Government is also looking seriously at the increasing number of unemployed people, especially among young people, and will take action to remedy this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e692	I think the interpellant held a classic -- if you can call it that longer -- SV posts on these questions. The analysis became a little too simple and too little complex, because the problems we're facing, with an increasing number of failures, are complex. It's true that the interpellant and many others have been involved, that there are signs of our working life today that require a pace and a capacity for conversion that can be exploding to many. But it's also true, if we see a generation or two back, that today's working life is more open, more tolerant, more prepared to include people who are different, and who have a worse working capacity than before. It is also true that we have a working life that adds to greater flexibility, which was initially a demand from the workers to get a more adapted work situation. It is clear that this flexibility can also be exploited by the employer, but we should not forget the starting point. It's a fact, which I don't think is a big paradox, that when unemployment goes down, the number of people who are sick and are ill will increase. It has to do with human nature. In Sweden, they have had a debate on this – they talk about everyone asking for the giro, but no one asks who is paying it. It is particularly alarming that there seems to be a rather widespread attitude, especially among young people or younger ones, that it is ok to live on social security. That's why we have to have arrangements where it actually pays to work. If the social security systems become generous, the workline will fail. And the line of work is important. Work is important socially and in any other way, as has been the case with others. Therefore, it is important to strike a balance between short-term social security and social security schemes which nevertheless stimulate the return to work. In addition to the proposals mentioned, both on active health care and on active cooperation between public services, which will be a good thing for jobseekers and for people with problems related to working life, I would like to mention two proposals. One is that the Government should look at the performance criteria for disability pensions, in particular in relation to the supplementary pension element of disability benefits, such as several other countries, among others. Sweden, in order to assess whether it should not be more proportionate to acquired rights and the age of disability. The second thing is, of course, what we've often been dealing with, is that it should be possible to have surgery for sick pay. Many would not be dissatisfied. They would not be in an emergency if they had received help from the health service more quickly to get back to work again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e705	It's an important thing that's being taken up here by the interpellant. It is a paradox that the number of unemployed persons is increasing now while employment has improved considerably. As a result, access to work could also be much larger. Press and performance requirements in the workplace and in the business community have probably increased considerably, and the expansion has greatly increased as a result. The increase is probably also due to the improvement in treatment capacity. There has been a shorter duration of treatment in RTV, with a reduction of 3 000 in the number of untreated cases and demands in 1998. On the other hand, we have to be very happy about that, for some of the requirements, among other things. from Stortinget it has been that one should remove these long queues with a requirement for assessment of disability. The situation requires flexibility and cooperation between individual workers and employers, but also with public services and through better user involvement. The rehabilitation message and the disability action plan, presented by the Government last winter, have this as a clear clue. I think it's positive things to notice here. In particular, it is important that public authorities cooperate and cooperate. Among other things, recorded as an essential part of the welfare message during the previous ageing period, followed up and reinforced by the current government and the Social Minister. The announcement that the Government will present now in our life-rate equalisation communication should have clear evidence and advice on how to act on this with exclusion from the labour market and the differences it leads to in society. I also think it is positive to note the escalation plan for psychiatry and also the follow-up to the action plan for reducing drug use. These are examples of, as stated by the Council of State, addressing groups in need of clear and close follow-up in order to return to work. The active health message system has been mentioned by several. These are of the things I think are within the area of worker-employee cooperation, and also with the active involvement of the public sector. The social security centre is responsible for following up the sick. The labour office and the labour market seat are responsible for following up those who need vocational rehabilitation. It is positive that half of those who have completed vocational rehabilitation in 1998 either went directly to work or are registered as jobseekers. I think that's a good number. It means that there are not so many people who leaked back to a disgust situation. There's also reason to mention several things that are positive now. [[President clubs]] But I'm going to be very careful to say that the samples that are down, which are based on the flexibility of both the employee and the employer, I think are positive. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e722	So the President's flexibility is exhausted too!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e726	Since flexibility is exhausted, I hope it was the previous speaker and not the subsequent speakers. What concerns the very theme of the interpellation is an important question. The main thing is to give people the opportunity to participate in professional and social life. As a result, the increase in the number of malnourished people is very worrying. This is important, both because it is central to giving individuals the opportunity to feed themselves through their own efforts and work, and because participation in working life is often also a gateway to other social life. Finally, it is important to reduce expenditure on social benefits in society. It must be a goal that contributes as much as possible and that as little as possible only accepts. But as I've been talking about, this is also important for the individual. It is probably right, as has been pointed out by several, that the development of the labour market places increasing demands on the performance of individual workers, leading in many respects to an increase in pressure. But at the same time, there are also aspects of the development of working life that should provide opportunities for greater flexibility and greater opportunities for participation, even if there are some problems. After all, there is a reduced physical burden in many professions. Unfortunately, it may not apply in one of the major sectors, the main sector of female labour, namely the care professions. Finding measures that can reduce part of the physical burden in those contexts may be one of the most important things we need to do. I think it's important to have as a starting point that we humans are different, and that it's precisely this professional life that needs to adapt to be open to more. It may not be that the interpellant immediately assumes that all professional rights acquired are always the most suitable to allow for flexibility. It is also important to look at rehabilitation and the possibility of flexible rehabilitation, and in this context I would like to highlight what others have said, namely that the reform of skills must not hinder the possibility of more people. Finally, when it comes to finding solutions, it has to be done in a cooperative between the needs of workers and employers. It is not useful to counteract the changes that are necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e739	I noticed that the Minister of Social Affairs stressed the employers and expenses and said that we could not afford this increase. But my advice to the Minister of Social Affairs is that you also need to pay attention to the individual, when we know that being at work offers significantly increased quality of life. It must be just as important to stress that anyone who wants to be at work is given the opportunity to do so even if their residual working capacity is small, as if this cost money. Working for everyone is a very important objective, and therefore, in the Workers' Party, we are concerned about the strong increase in the number of new disadvantaged people. I have therefore asked the Minister of Social Affairs many times from this pulpit for countermeasures to prevent the strong increase in the number of new unemployees, but I would say that there has been little willingness to address the problem. On the contrary, we believe that the Government has taken action that will help to increase expenditure in this area. I do not have to go back further than until the last Wednesday when it was about access to the tools for those who have difficulty reading and writing, who are now narrowed down. If we're going to limit the number of new unsatisfied people, I think we need to take action, because it will pay off in the long term both for the state and for the individual. There can be no doubt about that, for example. the record low level of labour market measures for the current year will lead to further job losses in the coming years. According to the interpellant, the number of new unemployed persons is increasing especially among young people under 30 years of age. Nevertheless, the government, with the support of the Right Party and the Advance Party, cuts the youth guarantee for them between 20 and 25 years, the one that gave them a guarantee of getting to work, and we also know that we have succeeded for many years now. Many of these don't have the right to a daily allowance, and then the social office is the only way out to get something to live on. It should not be surprising for anyone that the path to disability is short, even though the residual capacity is high enough to perform a job. Because that's often a reason some people stay available for a long, long time. The working life is getting tougher, and you're required to be almost 110 pst. the workforce in order to be able to compete for the vacancies and the competence requirement is higher. That is why we in the Labour Party also believe that measures, such as long-term wage subsidies, need to be put in place for this group, so that they are attractive to employers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e755	Some speakers have said that they think that working life may not be tougher now than it was before, and you can probably philosophize it a little bit over. But before, it was such that there was a smaller part of the work-stick that was working, and it was much more a private problem if you couldn't do it or had no work. Now we have had a policy where we have said that it should be work for everyone. That's what I was starting from, and that's what I think we're going to start from, and then it's going to look at employment and whether the changes we're seeing are going in the right direction in terms of reducing exclusion in the world of work, and that's why I focus on the changes and flexibility proposals that have been promoted. SV and I have nothing against schemes that can help make this easier, but the proposals that have been made so far actually lead one-sidedly to the fact that the competitive conditions of those who have problems in the labour market have become worse. The signals are that you intend to go further in this direction, and we cannot see that this meets what we have been busy about today. The representative Annelise Höegh was concerned about the attitude to live on social security, and also that it should pay off to work. I don't disagree with that at all. This is precisely what makes us in SV very concerned that measures in relation to the unemployed, in relation to people who have problems, should come in quickly, and that you should not wait with it, so that you can somehow get time to practice in such a situation. It's precisely society's focus on working that's important, and then it's important that the threshold into this working life doesn't get too high, so that discouragement gets very hard on those who have some disabilities to work with, whether they're physical or social. Then the representative was Næss into this with the school. That's what I think was very interesting, because this kind of focussing, I think we also have to have, that the school should actually enable students both physically and mentally to – to say it this way – to take advantage of their entire capacity and have the courage and the will and the ability to go into it. So that's what I thought was a positive angle of incidence. So that maybe I haven't pointed out so many concrete ways to do this. There are innumerable numbers, and there will now be a selection of them. The main point for me has been to get the Government and the other parties here to hold on to the fact that there is work for everyone who is the main objective, that our intervention in relation to the labour market and our action in this area is what is at the core focus. This must be taken into account when discussing changes in relation to labour market conditions and when looking at the amount of resources that you are willing to put into the phase of prevention and rehabilitation, and not just looking at the social security expenditure side in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e766	Experience and research results show that older workers are particularly vulnerable to company constraints, while this group has more problems than others in getting back into work. Let me mention two themes that Stortinget will have the opportunity to come back to. One is a change in the law that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is now working on to ensure that employees with service pension schemes are not laid off by age and pension scheme as a foundation. The second is a gift pension, which is used by many companies in a conversion process to get older workers to retire. It is subject to its own proposals in the context of the pre-retirement selection setting, which is currently out of hearing. So I would like to sum up by saying that I'm recording that this is a broad commitment also to the Storting in order to ensure that the most possible is able to use their capabilities and facilities and to ensure good arrangements for those who don't have that possibility. I am impressed by the work that the social partners have done. I have had the opportunity to look closely at a forum in which I have participated, and it took me a short time to realize the idea bank, i.e. a place where it is possible to obtain the good trials that have been tried out. And to Karin Andersen: My goal with the idea bank is not to protect the employers unilaterally. On the contrary, focus on the good efforts made to protect workers. Signe Eye must have misinterpreted me. I stress that we couldn't afford either human or socio-economic, so let me clarify -- it's the concern of the individual human being who's here to be in the main focus. So I'm going to say that I'm taking this discussion with me as a positive input into the final query with the hoarding message about hemorrhaging in living conditions. There will be a better chance of combining disability pension and work than at present, both for different companies, which we have had a debate on before. I can then see that there will be support for the thoughts that we there want to realize.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e779	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e793	The background to this interpellation is the still declining proportion of women in senior management positions in general government. Developments seem to be going in the wrong direction despite a number of action plans, projects and good intentions, and despite the fact that the importance for the general equality policy of increasing numbers of women in leadership positions is still being highlighted. A modern society should be an equal society with a balanced distribution of women and men also in positions of power in politics, in government and in business. It is only in an equal society that it is possible to ensure diversity and democracy, and that men and women are given the opportunity to take joint responsibility, including in the field of care. In reviewing the work done in the ministries, I am pleased that the Government has expressed its willingness to integrate the gender perspective and gender equality objectives into all public activities. It is commendable that the Ministry of Labour and Administration, which is responsible for the government's employer policy, has put in place the «Women, Quality and Competence of the State» project. The aim is to increase the number of women in the top and middle level across the state sector. Furthermore, as part of the State Staff and Leader Development Policy, a mentoring programme is under way. These are excellent measures. It's also good that the government has the goal that it should be 30 pst. women in senior management positions by the end of 2001. But this goal and these ambitions are not in harmony with what the Government is really doing. It is very disappointing that recently only men were appointed to the four vacant ministerial councils. They're probably excellent people, but that's not the problem. The problem is that there is now only one female ministerial council of a total of 17. A while ago, there were five. This will clearly have implications for gender equality in all areas. I agree with the Ministerial Council of Greece in an interview in the journal Stat & Styring nr. 1-1999 states that ‘this is embarrassing’. And he focuses on the impact it has on gender equality in general. On the question of whether he, as head of all ministerial councils, believes that the warped gender structure affects the way they function, he answers the following: ‘Perhaps not the way we work, but it is quite obvious that it affects what views are brought to squares and what values they are based on. I think our debates had become more nuanced, with other types of arguments, if the entry of women had been greater. This is important even in a meeting without decision-making authority.» Do the Councils agree with these considerations? At the dispatch manager level, it's only 20 pst. women. It is also worrying because there is a tradition of the majority of ministerial councils being recruited from this level. However, there are more women among department directors and vice-directors. The public sector in general recruits many women, and fewer women than men go into the private sector. Nevertheless, recruitment to senior management positions is failing in the public administration. The heads of Norway’s bank, the Credit Authority and the Municipal Bank are also men. Action plans have been in place in this area for years, and objectives have not been missing. In 1998, the Government adopted a separate action plan for the recruitment of women in public sector management. Women are better educated and have more leadership experience than before – at all: Women are better equipped than ever to occupy top management positions. It may seem that the idea of equality in general government is not so strong. And you can ask if the Government does not take the consequences of its own action plans. What is the failure of the recruitment process? The action plans underline the need for more women to enter top management positions in order to speed up gender equality, but practice shows that it is set in reverse. It is good that the Government has reached the equality goal in terms of the female share of the Government. But in the case of state secretaries and advisers in the civil service, it is disappointing. The only area where the proportion of women has increased is actually in the county. Nor in the international context is the situation in Norway as good as we might think. The Scandinavian countries are, in fact, higher in the proportion of women in political bodies than in other Western countries. But in terms of the proportion of women in leading positions in the world of work, we are lower. A cross-political commission in the United States, the Glass Ceiling Commission, set up by former President Bush, believes it is a ‘glass ceiling’ with a limit of 30 pst. for women’s representation in power positions throughout the Western world. The glass stack refers to invisible but impenetrable barriers that prevent women from entering leadership positions in general. Three types of glass ceilings are mentioned: 1. social barriers outside industry and official control2. barriers due to lack of action and public policy, from welfare policy to gender policy3. internal structural barriers, such as the culture of organisations and recruitment policies; Does the Council have any idea whether there are such barriers that are contributing to the situation in the Norwegian government? One thing is certainly certain: the government and the central government have a lot to do before they stick in – not to say splinter – this 30 pst glass ceiling. Ministerial councils who become employees usually have experience in the government sector and preferably in the departments. They are often recruited from the dispatch manager level or from other senior management positions in the country. But when women are also underrepresented both at the dispatch level and as top managers in the state in general, we are equidistant. I understand, of course, that it is important that the Councils of Ministers know the administration well, that they know the rules of the game and know how to deal with matters. Of course, in relation to the advice to be given, it is important to know the systems. But when is this circle going to break? In the past, the state was alone in providing female top managers with flexible working time, part-time and good welfare arrangements. Private employers now offer the same, as well as nursery facilities, home offices for periods and assistance in the house. Therefore, the State no longer enjoys the same competitive advantage as it had previously. Therefore, central government needs to do something to become more attractive. Does the Council have any idea of that? I think we have the laws that are needed in this area. Similarly, studies do not indicate that there has been a particularly positive effect on gender quotas. It is necessary to look at positive measures to bring women into senior management positions in the public sector. The project ‘Women, quality and competence in the country’, as I mentioned, is one of the positive actions being taken. I would like to hear how the Council of State assesses this project. The reason why it's important to get more female leaders is that I'm not going to spend a lot of time on it. I think it's pretty obvious. The background of experience for women is important and necessary. Complete and representative decisions are increasing when both men and women are involved in management. This applies to all areas. It is important to have objectives for gender equality, and there is no need to leave this objective even if it may sometimes seem unattainable. Without targets, it becomes too light and the situation can deteriorate further. It's important to have something to stretch towards. So even though we've come a long way in gender equality, not least in higher education, something is happening on the road that makes women not reach. I do not believe that women can be expected to apply for such jobs to the same extent as men without anyone contributing by saying that the jobs can be interesting to them. It's not because we women can't talk for themselves, but it's something in the organizational culture and in traditions. There is a human-dominated leadership, which is also the subject of the Grydeland Department Council in the previously mentioned interview. He suggests that there is a human culture that can be an obstacle. Both men and women underestimate the competence of women and the leadership of women. Research shows that women are not as good as men to emphasise their own competences. So the government's goal is to have 30 pst by the end of 2001. be occupied by women by senior management positions in the State. I now want to hear the opinion of the Council of State on why there are so few women in senior positions in the state and what measures she will take to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e851	It has long been a political objective to increase the proportion of female leaders in the state sector. Figures from the first half of the 1990s showed a stagnation in development. Among other things, the proportion of women in the central government management system varied between 10 and 12 pst. Despite relatively high mobility among these leaders, the proportion of women did not increase. We hear a lot of explanations and statements about why there are so few women in leadership positions. Among other things, it was claimed that top management, which consists mainly of men, tends to choose the same sex when they recruit leaders. If this is true, what is the reason? Do they choose men because they think it fits the image many – both women and men – have formed from a top leader? Is it still the way that many put similarity signs between leader and husband? Do women struggle to take leadership positions? The answer to this is simply not easy. Many factors are involved and, therefore, it is important to take action in a number of areas. In order to increase the proportion of women in senior and middle management positions in the country, my department has set up a project called ‘Women, quality and competence in the country’. The project is four years old, and the aim is to increase the share of women in government from 22 p.m. from 1997 to 30 p.m. by the end of 2001. The most important steps to get results have been so-called whip and carrot, and lead anchoring. What do I mean by that? My department has put itself on the line by requiring each sector to report annually on developments in relation to the results achieved. The carrot is, of course, the competence that women bring into the leadership teams, and the anchoring of leadership is that responsibility for development is linked to the performance requirements of the chief executive. For this reason, the main strategies of the project were also discussed with representatives from my department and the departments in their own meetings. I will now present the project «Women, Quality and Competence in the State» and its main strategies and status per. today. In cooperation with the ministries, quantitative targets were set for each sector to increase the number of women in senior and middle management positions. The objectives are followed up by the letters of allocation to external activities and linked to the performance requirements of the managers. Initial reporting to the Ministry of Labour and Administration is made with results per year. 1 January 1999 and reporting shows a positive trend. From March 1997 to 1 January 1999, the proportion of women in senior management positions in the country increased by 18 p.m., from a total of 22 p.m. until 26 pst. This figure applies to all government leadership groups. The Ministry of Labour and Administration has asked for reporting on four sub-groups, and I will briefly explain the percentage change in each of the groups on which it has been reported. The maximum percentage change applies to the proportion of women in the 21 pst group of senior executives. increase in each. These two groups include the top managers of the departments and the top managers of external activities. The proportion of women in the middle management group in the departments has also increased, from 33 p.m. to 37 pst. and among other managers in external activities, the proportion of women has increased from 22 pst. until 26 pst. The last group is both the largest and the most heterogeneous and represents a total of over 9,000 leaders. In other words, the changes in the proportion of women in executive positions in state-owned out-of-state agencies will weigh more than the 30 pst target. the proportion of women. Over the course of a year, there will of course be movements in the leadership groups, and at least of these – the top leaders in the departments – will make a big impact on small movements. I see it as very unfortunate that there is only one woman of all ministerial councils, but as the figures show, there is a positive trend overall. Government leaders have been asked to review the qualification requirements of the call. They need to look critically at their own addition process in order to capture what promotes and inhibits the recruitment of women to leadership positions in their own activities. In this context, I would also like to mention that, on behalf of the Ministry of State in 1999, a guide has been drawn up for recruitment, among other things. with a view to ensuring a woman’s perspective in the recruitment process. It has been claimed that it is difficult to find women with the right skills for leadership positions. My department therefore took the initiative to set up a women's competence database. In 1998, my predecessor, Councillor Løwer, commissioned the Centre for Gender Equality to set up the database, primarily as a pilot project over three years. Names of the database shall be taken from the State, municipal and private sectors. The database will be operational from June this year, and I consider this competence database to be a central tool to seek out the very well-qualified women that we know exist in Norway today. It is important to invest in and provide good development opportunities for female intermediaries to qualify and motivate for senior management positions. State consultants have therefore been entrusted with the task of developing and launching a state mentoring programme as a new form of learning in the State sector. The programme is a one-year one-year one-year one-year one-year one-year one-off programme. that female intermediaries are guided by senior executives in relation to their own management. Other gains will be an increased understanding of governance mechanisms in their own activities and networking across government sectors. At the same time, top managers get more insight into what it means to be female middle managers. The program thus provides both sides with mutual benefits, and hopefully we will get more good candidates for top-level positions. The first group of the application has now started. Statsconsult also develops and operates other development measures for government leaders, and integrates the gender perspective into this work. The Ministry of Labour and Administration initiates and supports research and development-based knowledge developments in gender and competence, management and recruitment. During the first half of 1999, we will receive the results of a study on top-level recruitment in the state, which the Institute of Social Research is doing on behalf of us. State consultants have also been given the task of following this survey in interviewing women in middle management positions, in order to identify what can promote women’s interest in seeking senior management positions. The Ministry of Labour and Administration has also taken the initiative to discuss the leadership role and leadership recruitment in various forums where government leaders are gathered and to organise meeting places, so that the results of the research work are disseminated to the same target audience. My ministry supports the efforts of enterprises to achieve the objectives according to their own needs. The Ministry has therefore set up a network for state enterprises. Each enterprise is responsible for developing its own activities, and the network collections are a venue where the enterprises will both receive professional replenishment and learn from each other. As I have now explained, the government has been committed to increasing both knowledge and awareness of leadership recruitment. The government wants diversity in leadership both in gender, education, experience and personal characteristics. I believe that we have come a long way in relation to the target number. However, we will follow developments closely, and may consider introducing new measures to achieve the 30 pst target. where necessary, the share of women in government by the end of 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e883	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There is, as I was in my main post, nothing wrong with either goals or ambitions, and there is no lack of action plans or projects. I think the Council of State had many interesting questions in the introduction of its article, and I agree that a number of measures are needed to ensure recruitment, such as leadership development programmes, research and development, information, motivation and influence, as the Council of State said. There are positive measures that need to be followed up. It is positive that the recruitment of women in the state sector in the external and lower levels is better and that this has had a positive development. We're happy about that. However, in terms of employment at ministerial level and in terms of head of mission, gender equality targets and ambitions are set in reverse. I stand by that, and I believe that it has implications for gender equality in general, which I was also concerned with. However, it is very positive that in all departments work is now taking place which directly or indirectly contributes to improving career conditions for women, and it is positive that gender equality is being pursued in all disciplines, as an integral part of policy-making and management. Of course, it's not that counting heads and believing that full equality is achieved if the departments only have enough female leaders – of course we don't mean it. There are also other measures that need to be taken, as was the case with the Council of State. But I'm sure that women in top management positions are often crucial for how the thinking becomes. Well, that's because we women think differently, associate differently, prioritize differently, and that's simply because our everyday life and our experience are different. Therefore, the absence of women in leadership positions would clearly affect the points of view and the values on which it is based. I would like to hear what the Council of State thinks about the lack of proportion of women in ministerial councils and Heads of Mission, and what consequences this can have for equality work, in addition to what the Council of State said she considered this to be 'unlucky'. What's the problem is that we don't have women in top management positions. The other thing I could imagine asking is, what can the government think of doing so that the state can become more competitive and more attractive in relation to, for example, private sector, so that women actually want to apply for these posts?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e896	I am pleased that the representative, Sjöli, also sees that we have to put positive measures in place here, and that is exactly what we have been trying to do. I would also like to say that I am concerned about the small proportion we have of female ministerial councils, but will once again point out the positive fact that we have had a very good development at all other levels of leadership than that particular position group. As Minister of Labour and Administration, I have a major challenge in helping to get more women in top management positions in the ministries. I also agree with the representative Sonja Sjøli that it is important how women think, for women think something different, priorities something different. There is no doubt that we need to have both women and men in different positions at all levels. In that way, I think we agree very much. Unfortunately, the proportion of women will vary over time in different positions. When it comes to the issue of the ministerial councils, I – and the Government too – will follow closely the future appointments. I also hope that some of the tools we have put in can work, and I am thinking in particular of the database that will be operational from June this year. I also think that to the extent that you are going to use recruitment companies, you might say that you should have a certain number of female applicants to choose from. Not least, the mentoring programme, which is only in its infancy, will be important. When the representative, Sjøli, says that most ministerial councils are recruited from the head of mission, the mentor programme will go straight into the core and perhaps motivate women to also seek top management positions. Finally, the government has taken note of developments together, and this particular challenge of having so few female ministerial councils. The government receives regular reports and will follow closely. In addition, I would like to say that the ‘Women, Quality and Competence of the State’ project itself is anchored in the Government, and so the Government will discuss this at different intervals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e907	I am greatly tempted to say, Ladies and gentlemen! If we look around, we see who's interested. Today's interpellant debate on women in senior positions in the state is an interesting debate, and I want to commend the interpellant for addressing this very question. Both she and the Council of State are right that the time for action plans is over and that the time has come for action. The objective is important: there must be more women in senior positions in the state! We all have an ambition that this will happen, but action plan and reality are not always the same. It has been mentioned here that four new ministerial councils were appointed, all four men — and that means one woman and 16 men in top management. It shows us that the idea of equality does not seem to be particularly strong in our central government. And if we look at the press shed, we see that there's a lonely man sitting there, and that all the other people who are interested in this are women. There are many myths spun around that women won't be leaders. Once it has been stated that women themselves do not want to be leaders, it means that employers become less active in hiring women as leaders. Men are also very good at creating an aura of busyness, stress and mass around the leadership positions, which makes these positions seem deterrent and less attractive to many women. At work, men meet with expectations from the environment that they will seek their way up to the work hierarchy. For women, it's often the opposite. A young woman is not expected to have a career plan, and those who actually have it are perceived as different. A man confirms his manhood by becoming leader, while a woman is perceived as male and less female if she plans to become a future boss. We have come a long way in this country in terms of equality, not least in terms of education and policy. This needs to be reflected in the public sector, and I expect the Government to take the signal from the Storting seriously and act in practice, not just come up with action plans. We're in second place in the world when it comes to representation of women in the Storting, and laws and regulations seem okay. The qualifications used to keep women outside the public sector are driven by men, and they are not willing to think differently in terms of women’s qualification.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e922	The interpellant focuses on an important and challenging area. There is still a lot of work to be done in the field of gender equality. Sonja Irene Sjøli is concerned with the fact that there are still few women in leadership positions in the state sector. For us who are concerned with equality between women and men, the number of top women leaders is not satisfactory. The Council of State has explained in depth how the Government is working systematically to meet the 30 pst target. women in general government management by the end of 2001. It is obvious that the State has a special obligation to be a driver and a model in gender equality issues. Some will be able to interpret this debate to the point where it is only an objective in itself to ensure that more women are recruited into leading positions. But I also want to stress the importance of the experience and qualifications women contribute at all levels of society. It is enriching for a leadership to have the greatest possible breadth in its overall competence. It is always alarming when one sex unilaterally dominates an arena in the working life. Gender equality work must also focus strongly on levels other than top managers. It's e.g. an objective to encourage more men to work in women-dominated professions, such as: in nursery and health care. Studies show that there is a difference in the workload between many women and men. There is a large difference between the average working hours of women and men per week. Men work significantly more than women. Furthermore, it is worth noting that men do not significantly increase domestic effort when women are active on a full-time basis, compared to men who have working spouses. Where both are active, it turns out that women spend almost twice as much time on housework as men. Thus, it appears that women’s domestic efforts are relatively stable independently of out-of-home work. On this basis, the concept of double-working women has arisen. It is therefore not surprising that we have some women in our midst who may not be able to cope with enough of a challenge: top management jobs in the state. This is why it is important – in addition to all the good measures that the Council of State has mentioned as a job with a gender perspective – that we work with equality in absolutely all fields, from childhood onward. We'll never finish the equality work, it'll have to be worked on continuously so that we achieve the goals we want, and that we – as mentioned in this interpellation – get more female top managers in the public sector. I am pleased that the Government takes the gender equality challenges seriously, that it is willing to take action and will follow developments closely, and that, if you do not reach the objectives set, it is willing to look at new instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e941	Let's be clear: it's not done enough in this area. And there's no need to lie down on the laurels. Here it is important that the state should lead with a good example. This is a composite theme, however, that needs to be grabbed from multiple edges. The interpellant now focuses on women in public administration. We also know that this is also true of women in leadership positions, or different important governance. We should be aware that after decades of words and measures for equality, it is directly discouraging that women only make up 2 pst. by the members of the board of the listed companies. The fact that the percentage is tripled in small and medium-sized enterprises also does not give cause for rejoicing. It is difficult to imagine places where sexual favorisation will encounter stronger resistance than among the shareholders. Here, only high share prices, returns and competitiveness count. But the danger of the present, well-used governance model is that it becomes a one-sided composition when it comes to age, sex and background. In addition, many of the highest-level boards are only composed of a handful, often middle-aged, of men who are left in most governments, as well as where they are already group managers. Many of the future jobs are not yet created, but there is reason to believe that a large part of them will come into the knowledge and service industries. There are women today who are learning and making their careers. Here's reason to believe that it's about to make significant changes to the boardroom, so it's up to you to follow along, even for established shareholders. In Rogaland they have gone a little new way. Now CEO Tone Veen has a so-called board of directors of 60 well-qualified women who are willing and interested in taking on executive positions, an idea for follow-up. A recent statistics on gender equality from the University of Bergen show that there is still a poor record of gender/wage relationships. The higher on the payline, the fewer women there are. As long as the pay is low, the women are in multiples. Over salary steps 57, women make up 11 pst., while they make up 60-66 pst. in step 34. So there's a few female professors and leaders. There is reason to believe that this is not only true for Bergen. And then finally, it might be right to include that women also have a share of responsibility for this. It is too easy to shout that they cannot join the top level if they are not involved at the local and basic level first and show interest in these areas. Now it's up to you to move on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e960	For us in SV, it is important to establish, like the interpellant, that getting more women leaders into the public sector is a matter of equality, equality and justice, and of sharing power and opportunities. However, there are also issues of using the resources that women have; it is short and good for stupidly throwing waste on women’s resources in the management of the public sector. And this is once again an important signal to the private sector, because in the field of equality, in the distribution of power and resources, the public sector has gone ahead in many areas and given important signals. The councils have prepared projects and plans, and that's good. It is only that the ministry and the state sector have for years had action plans and projects with targets. Despite that, it's been too slow, and here we are impatient. Then it's quite right, as the Council of State says, that you have to go in and look critically at the recruitment processes. And I want to add: one has to look critically at the individual addition, one has to make sure that the equality perspective is as general as the celebrations say it should be. The Council of State must ensure that the add-on procedures do not exclude women. Then it's important to look at what kind of qualifications are being asked for and who chooses. When a question of leadership competence is raised, one must also realise that the leadership competence of double-working women in managing everyday life, like an entire family, in addition to what they do in the job, can be relevant skills alongside formal leadership skills. So is it that selection is often made by consultants, where men choose from their own, male networks. It is then important that the country looks critically at the use of these types of consultants, and it is not least important to look at whether quota rules are actually being used. Studies show that there is a great deal of eagerness to engage men in women-dominated occupations, while the quotaing of women to professions where women are underrepresented is underused. The representative of Molvær Grimstad was in that there is a piece left for women and men to share paid and unpaid work. It is important for women’s ability to use their resources as leaders and to make their careers. Women work a lot of time, and that is why the fight for a decent working life and the struggle for working time is also an important element here, so that women can use – and society can use – the skills they have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e971	Today's interpellation is about what action can be taken to achieve the 30 pst target. part of the renting of public administration. In general, it may be said that the issue is of how we can meet the objective of a more balanced distribution between sexes across all occupational groups, at all levels. It's an important thing. Women and men have different experiences. They approach problems and challenges differently, and have different ways of connecting social relationships. We're quite different, women and men. It's valuable for society as a whole if we can use the variety that humans represent. At the same time, it is clear that we – women and men – are the same when it comes to abilities, competences and human dignity. I would say that today, finally, we have come to where positive attitudes to equality are deeply anchored among younger and older, women and men. Equality means that everyone has the right to realize his or her abilities, the right to live his or her life in the pact with the values of one that man stands for. In spite of the positive attitudes towards gender equality and the benefits of society as a whole from a more representative distribution between sexes in the professional life, there are still too few women in leadership positions, not least in public administration. Sometimes evolution is going in the right direction. Well, when the number of female supervisors has increased from zero to one, it's a positive development. But the target of 30 pst. women in the cab, or six-seven female toxin, may be seen as a distant target. Although the objective - 30-70-distribution between sexes - may seem ambitious, the ideal distribution is 50-50. Development is in the right direction, but it is slow, and the goal is not ambitious enough. What can we do? Governments refer to several measures that will strengthen women’s motivation and competence. This could lead to women wanting and dared to assume leadership responsibilities. The Councils of State show among others: to lead development programs and network construction. The left was the first party to start women's teams, and in the left we have good experience in how important it is for women to build networks. Equality must also be about how we organise and develop society. If society is made up of schemes that prevent women from making a career in the same way as male colleagues, it is important that we see how we can find schemes that create equal representations for women and men. The possibility of having kindergartens and the right of fathers to leave is two sides of society we should look at when we assess equality in a larger context. Another aspect that we should consider is the extent to which the reform of skills can ensure that women receive further training, leading to the acquisition of skills, willingness and courage to assume leadership responsibilities by several women. The council said that she would follow closely when it comes to getting more women's ministerial councils, and I hope that the council will also follow closely to get more women's pajamas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e990	One thing was that there was only one man present in the press room. Also I felt pretty lonely for a little while, but more contribute gradually, I see. The Council of State points to many areas of action and action to increase the proportion of women in management positions. The other representatives have also pointed to different things that you might say you recognize. It's going too slowly. They point out that women are valuable. They point out that gender balance is important. They also point to the importance of increasing the proportion of women in the public sector. I don't think it's necessary to point this out, because we all know this. Women are important in all contexts. But I think women can decide for themselves, and there's a lack in the discussion. Is it true that we are going to sort of discuss and make action plans to achieve the 30 pst target? if the needs are not correct? I do not recognize the argument from Grethe Fossum of the Workers' Party that it is signaled that women do not want top positions. Someone must not be a witness to the truth of women's vision. If this is not a reality, women themselves must say what they want, not laws, rules and action plans. We have to have goals, but these don't have to be such as to force people into a role that they may feel uncomfortable in. You might argue that there's too little women in positions of leadership, but that it's going slow may well prove that that's right. I am not at all in doubt that the proportion of women in senior management positions in the public sector and otherwise guaranteed to increase in proportion to the proportion of women with increased education. But I am of the opinion that this must happen naturally, without imposing force, rules and action plans. Many have also been involved in this with allowances – 20 years of use of allowances. Now, at least we've been proven that there's sexual quota. Now I also hope that the Council of State will take it with me, and perhaps look with other eyes at the use of sex quotas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1005	The fight that has taken place in Norway for women’s right to participation and influence in society has produced many good results and has resulted in Norway being a leading country in gender equality. Today we know that the vast majority of women are active, and we see that the majority of students at universities and colleges are women. And there is no doubt that without women's influence in the political forums, the welfare society had not had the form and content it has today. It is important that women’s choice of values is also reflected in public and private businesses. We often meet today's claims that we have achieved full equality. Since the 1960s there have been radical changes in the rights and opportunities of men and women. But at the same time, we need to be aware that new problems arise, and that we are still carrying parts of the traditional gender role pattern. As many have been involved, and as the interpellant also addresses today, there is a very important issue in how we can get further involved in the recruitment of top management positions in the public sector. For how has public and state responsibility been to meet the target of 30 pst by 2001. by senior management positions in the State occupied by women? As the Council of State says, we have had a stagnation in development, and that is very regrettable. We need concrete measures, which must consist of positive instruments that help and stimulate women to seek that kind of work. On a national basis, we see that the proportion of women among leaders is 27 pst, but in the top level, women only make up 10 pst. in public and 3 pst. in the private sector. Female leaders are mainly at the level of supervisors and middle managers and as leaders of other women. There is no doubt that gender has a bearing on careers. Women, whether unskilled or highly educated, are more frequent than men in occupations where career opportunities are limited and management jobs are few. Number of women with qualifications such as: industry wants to be considerably higher than the number of women in management positions. It is such that women achieve as good exam results as men, but business and also the top level of government lose the most knowledgeable and competent women. It's not about coercion, as Per Sandberg's representative said, but about what real opportunities women have today. Business is looking for new leaders in a too narrow area, and I think it's much of the same thing that happens in government. The biggest problem today is that many women lack self-confidence and motivation to seek a demanding leadership job. One thing is to have formal education in order, something else is to think that one will master a demanding leadership job.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1022	I agree with the representative Fossum that the presence of women and the lack of men in the Chamber during this debate may make a part of the problem visible. I also see that there are five women and one male adviser in the diplomat lodge, that is. that after it was pointed out, it has actually increased to a total of three men, and that's positive. It's striking, but I think representatively, that the interest in these questions is so low. I think this has been an engaged and constructive debate. There is a broad consensus on the objectives of gender equality policy, and I believe that we are all impatient to achieve the objectives. There is a need for active involvement and greater pressure. Governments have expressed a strong willingness to improve the situation and to follow-up, especially with regard to senior management positions. The background of experience for women is important and necessary. Of course, there is also the experience of men, but the lack of men and men's influence is no problem, for we have full respect for men. To become comprehensive and representative decisions for society, there must be no equal representation of women and men in the management of government, politics and business. That is only how we can ensure diversity and democracy, and that women and men are given the opportunity to take joint responsibility for care tasks as well. The Council of State itself stated in its statement that gender equality policy is a leadership responsibility. I fully agree with that, and I interpret it so that the Council of State now takes this responsibility seriously and contributes to the goal of 30 p.m. women in senior management positions in the country before the end of 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1031	I agree with those who say that the time for action is right. I am also quite convinced that we need to have instruments, and we also need to have a strategy in this area. Of course, the government takes the signals from the Storting seriously. We work systematically both to get more women in the different management positions and, of course, also with gender equality policies for the rest. I also agree with those who say that the recruitment process can be absolutely crucial, and that it is incredibly important how to design it. There is no doubt that we are seeing a happy development in all the leadership categories in the state as a whole. We're actually halfway to the goal we set when we started, when it comes to achieving 30 pst.-the proportion of women in leadership positions combined, and never before has the proportion of women in top management groups and middle management groups overall been so high. I am very pleased about that, and we should all be happy about that, even if we are absolutely not going to reduce the effort for that reason. As Minister of Labour and Administration, I would very much like to receive further creative input into how the development we all want can go faster. In the end, I would like to state that the interpellant has raised a very important issue, which I believe should be debated regularly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1044	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1058	This interpellation is based on the NOVA report on the situation of homosexuals and lesbians in our own country. This interpellation does not intend to seek out easily visible scapegoats. This interpellation takes on the opposite goal of collecting what we are familiar with, of finding out what the majority of the Storting wants, and of ensuring that this is followed up by the Government, preferably without instruction. At the same time, this is a matter beyond the individual's concerns. In a changing and unstable world, man's main driving force is the search for purpose and identity, after anchoring in life. Through renewed interest in values, religion, customs, and customs, it is sought for belonging. In global policy, it is important to facilitate a civilised policy. In national and local policies, it is important to facilitate values that are recognizable in our culture, but that take on board the fact that we live in a multicultural society with minorities, and thus ensure and support ourselves so that we do not limit human dignity solely to ourselves – this is precisely because it would also limit our opportunities to make an effort on the international and global level. The ability of politics, state and government to deal with minority issues – with all its tensions – is also about how we can integrate and interact with those who are different and who think and act differently from the majority at all times. How we deal with diversity in our civil society will largely determine what our society will look like in the next century. In this way, the situation of minorities, in this case the situation of homosexuals and lesbians, is perhaps one of the greatest questions of value to which we are confronted. If this policy is not based on a value, solidarity, they cannot rise from the defeats. For me, this shows a principle of what must be our values in small, but also in our foreign policy. It must be value-based, based on solidarity. And with our capital of competence, which lies in our financial resources and our high level of education, we have a heavy moral obligation when we have the knowledge to assist in the work against racism, for social and economic development, for the improvement of human rights and for the promotion of tolerance. For this reason, it is not enough that the departments are set in motion in a passionate way to correct the legislative path, even if it is also required. It is equally important, not just to understand and understand, but to see this knowledge as a means of changing and moving us in a more human direction. And here we are at the core of politics, as I see it, where what we do of political action, not only is the art of possibility, but also takes in emotionally and consciously that the actions we take, have a value, an emotional anchor and a value anchor that leads us further to do what is and may seem impossible, possible. That's this value the work movement will carry on. It is this lashing that led to that when the situation of homosexuals was brought up for debate in the organs of the party, the prejudices began to fall, also because one could see the longer lines, what we as society had to serve, and which would lead to greater human insight and diversity. As we move into the next century with a goal of more solidarity, more humanity, more democracy and more tolerance, we cannot do so by suspending and defending existing thoughts and interpreting everything literally from the past. We must ensure the capacity of institutions and policies to bring these values into a new century. It demands to be able to look critically at ourselves, at the regulations we have established, at the laws and regulations. The antidotes are powerful, as we have seen them against Rosemarie Köhn and Gunnar Stålsett, and as we have experienced the silence of the shocking investigation that NOVA has presented. I would argue that an open and acceptable view towards homosexuals on the part of adult society will reduce the risk of future abuse. Young homophiles often lack role figures to identify with. The environment is often heterophilic or assumed to be heterophilic. Thus, most young homosexuals go through a long and often traumatic identity-seeking process, among others. to become acquainted with your own feelings and identities. For young people, teachers with knowledge and an open attitude to homosexuals can serve as a good support. We know what the opposite is. It can be noted that issues related to sexual identity are now only rarely addressed in school and rarely addressed at our teacher’s colleges. But as society's general attitude approaches, there are now probably more homosexuals who will be open about their own sexual identity. For children and young people in general and for homosexuals in particular, it is important that adults working with children and young people have good knowledge and a prejudice-free attitude. When I've been based on those who work with children and young people, and in particular the school, it's because the law, for example, knows. Both the criminal law protection we have and the partnership law will always have to be complementary to other measures to reduce infringements and discrimination. Norway occupies, as it is now, the Jumbo place in the Nordic countries, in classes with Greece, Ireland, Italy and Romania, which do not have curricula in this field, while sex and lifelong learning is well integrated in other countries. I believe that both primary and secondary school must be taken in completely different attitudes and from the beginning of the different family types: the core family, the single-parent family and the single-parent family. Later in primary and secondary school, one must also discuss their rights. The subject also includes information on HIV and AIDS, health and lifestyle. In literature, there is too little in the field today on the educational side. Historically, in the health sector, people with homophilic identity have poor experience with the public utility, in particular the psychiatry. The health debate, which appears in the media at irregular intervals and which the professionals have good reason to engage in, prevents many people from visiting the aid in fear of being met with ignorance, prejudice and, in the worst case, with the provision of ‘healing’. Prejudice is a contagious bacterium. The best defense is more knowledge that can give fellow feeling, but also ethical attitudes. The serious health problems, drug abuse, which we are experiencing today and which are revealed in the NOVA report, require immediate prevention. It also does so within the cultural field, and I expect the Ministry of Culture also to commit itself to the problem in an obligatory way. In my opinion, funds should be set up for regional, possibly state-of-the-art, centres staffed by gay/lesbian professionals, psychologists, etc., as we have a very good experience with what has been done in Sweden, among others. These must be based on homophilic organisations, which are the most competent today. Mastering to be different, tackling negative attitudes while maintaining pride and dignity, is part of and develops a secure identity. It must be provided by the resource centres. As long as information activities are lacking by the authorities, one should also grant to the organisations, but not by number of members, because there are too few who have emerged, so that it does not become real. At the same time, because of its important task, the monthly newspaper Blink should receive additional grants. When we get knowledge, we change. But just as fully I think it's impossible to get into the situation of others and get involved in what it's like to have to hide itself. Openness requires enormous strength, and explains why many cannot stand up, but are forced by us as societies to live with denial, also because at the moment that a person takes inward his reality, one has also found that one is different. It breaks everything that's anchored in being like everyone else. Many experience delinquency and despair. It is a very unstable phase of the individual review. What was published today in the VG that homosexuals use more alcohol and drugs only confirms and reinforces their actual situation. The NOVA study has shown the top of an iceberg, where many people suffer. What carries hope is accepted by minorities in recent years, not least through the implementation of the Partnership Act. But this knowledge now also demands swift action. You can't wait to get a health plan for homosexuals, a place to turn to for advice and change the curriculum in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1100	The starting point for the interpellation is that one in four homosexuals under the age of 24 has tried to take their own life. And that's serious. The recent NOVA report on the quality of life and life of lesbian women and gay men has given us an important and necessary contribution to increasing knowledge of this group. The report shows on the one hand that the situation of homosexuals and lesbians has improved compared to previous studies. They include: more open about its sexual orientation than before, and the attitudes of the population have changed in a positive direction. But the report also shows a number of alarming relationships, especially with regard to young people. The representative Grete Knudsen draws it out of the findings of the report that uroar both me and the government the most. One person who tries to take his own life is one too much, same reason. These young people say that the motive for trying to take their own lives is that they felt isolated and lonely, they wanted to get away from an unbearable situation, they hated themselves, felt unworthy and wanted to die. In addition, they have far more mental problems than other young people of the same age group. The study by NOVA shows that the childhood and youth of lesbians and gays are not of particular concern. It is the process of clarification up to the perception of its own orientation that appears to be difficult. In other words, 13 pst. among women and 16 pst. among men under the age of 25 that neither mother nor father knows that they are lesbian nor gay. It must be a great impression to keep your real 'eg' hidden from your parents. We know how much it means to have a good and open relationship between children and parents to create basic confidence and security. If we look at the lesbians and gays in NOVA's investigation as a whole, most people – nine out of ten – have a good relationship with their family. Only one in 100 has broken it. They have a better friendship network than most people. Nine out of ten have good and probable friends where they live. Eight out of ten men and nine out of ten women say that their friends know they're lesbian or gay. More than three quarters say they associate with both heterophilic and lesbian/homophilic friends. This has become more common than previously shown. More than two thirds of the women and half of the men are in a fixed relationship. There's a greater part with higher quality of life among those who are in pairs than among those who are not. Overall, the life situation has improved for lesbians and gays. They have become more integrated into the social web than before. They experience a greater connection in their lives. I'm going to be guilty of misrepresenting the problems that lesbians and gays are struggling with, as a health problem, and pushing responsibility from me over and over to the Minister of Health. Once the problems have been so great that a person wants to take his own life, he/she should receive help from mental health protection. But the primary thing is to prevent such situations from occurring. Here I believe that the Ministry of Children and Family and other departments have a lot to do. It is particularly necessary for young people under the age of 25 to take action. These include the fact that the NOVA report has revealed the main problems. The Ministry of Children and Family Cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research on the follow-up to the NOVA report. I have, as you know, had a meeting with the National Association for Lesbian and Homofil Liberation – LLH – where we discussed the report and where LLH expressed a wish for action. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Church Affairs, Education and Research shall also have such a meeting with LLH, with me. I intend to convene a joint meeting between the ministries and LLH before the summer. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs is responsible for the general policies of children and young people and is involved in various activities and initiatives towards children and young people. As a example, I will mention the effort against violence and bullying, among other things. support for children and young people in their own efforts in prevention. In 1996-97, with the support of the Ministry, more than 50 projects against selected and bullying in their neighbourhoods were carried out by young people in recreational clubs. The Ministry further suggests parental guidance. The parental guidance programme is extended to schoolchildren aged 7-18 and one of the objectives is to increase parental sensitivity in relation to youth. These and other measures will also benefit young lesbians and homosexuals, although they are not specifically targeted at this target group. But there is also a need for special measures aimed at lesbians and gays to address the problems documented in the NOVA report. Further work will focus on measures that will improve the situation for the individual and especially for young people. I have, among other things: trust in awareness-raising work and not least information. There are also issues that have to do with youth that are most engaged when lesbians and gays are asked what challenges are the most important to better lesbians and gays their life situation. The single case that most of mine should give priority to is more information about homophilia in basic school education – which was also the interpellant well inside – and which is ranked as the second aid to young people in the phase they want to ‘come out’, as it is called. Many claim that the safer young lesbians and gays become themselves early, the fewer will live in hiding, and the better they get. That's probably right too many, but not for everyone. We must therefore also have respect for those who have a gay lay without error – and for those who want to decorate their own life as single. The investigation MMI did for NOVA about attitudes in the people, shows that those who have close friends who are lesbian or gay are most positive. This shows that openness and integration are important for understanding lesbian and gay rights and living conditions. The Ministry will provide financial support for a National Youth Conference under the auspices of LLH, to be organised in Bergen in May. Representatives from LLH’s local team and from independent gay and lesbian youth organisations shall gather to discuss the NOVA report on the basis of their own experience. The aim is to discuss the necessary measures, both from the lesbian and gay community and from the public. The objective is also to link important networks. The Lesbian and Homofil Liberation Association has had and has an important role to play in providing information on the lesbian and gay situation. This is the background for LLH to receive operating support from the Ministry of Children and Family. Support amounts to NOK 420,000 in 1999. Just before Easter, the departmental selection that has implemented the scheme of operating and project support for family and women policy institutions delivered its attitude. It's now out on the phone. The majority are in favour of an operational and project support conversion. It is proposed that funds for family and women policy organisations be collected in a pot, and that 80 pst. will be used for basic support and 20 pst. for project support. Among other things, the majority suggests that the membership should have an impact on the amount of basic support allocated to each individual organisation. The Ministry has not taken a decision on the proposal. I intend to present new guidelines in the budget for 2000. There are now several departments working together and in good dialogue with LLH to identify good actions. But I also want to add – to change a little at the end of my post in relation to what I had thought, I had not really decided how to get back to Stortinget with this case – that if the Stortinget thinks that it is most likely to go through a big message, I have nothing against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1132	I choose to interpret the answer to the council so that she has really taken inward that one in four young people have tried to take their own lives because they cannot live with the situation as they experience it, both from their own point of view and in relation to the attitudes of society. I interpret it so that this reality has taken the government inwards, and that something will be done – I also refer to the Prime Minister’s response to me in a spontaneous questioning hour. This is so precarious that we are of course positive to a big message – it is good that the Council of State says it, so that we do not have to vote over it – but I also assume that the Council of State sees that it is important to do something about the state of health. Information activities must be started throughout the school, in teacher training, in doctors or whatever it may be in order to gain more knowledge, so that individuals themselves can be more confident about their own identity in order to cope with their own everyday lives. All the other Councils mentioned more general measures for all, we agree, of course, but we need a very clear extra effort towards lesbian/homophile once we have received such evidence as we have. It cannot wait until we get a big message, which will take a very long time to get out. I hope that the Council of State says that these concrete actions will now be launched, both in terms of health and education, and also provide a subsidy to the organisation of NOK 400000. For what is 400,000 dollars when it comes to the lives of young people? The right organisation, the one with the knowledge, will be the organisation of the gays themselves. I expect – that is what the Council of State says – that it will have the task for which the authorities actually have a responsibility, which relates to the information part, and therefore it must also be able to expect more money. But will the Council of State really make sure that something is done in education and health now, as well as that we get a wider discussion when the big news comes?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1139	I stumble a little over the line to Grete Knudsen where she says, "I choose to interpret... that she has really taken inward that one of four etc." It is clear that I have been affected. But I felt enough, when the report was presented, that I was the one who put on the table, and I probably felt that a little unfair. Of course, I have been involved – that is why we have taken this work seriously. I have said that, in cooperation with the KUF, we will present proposals for action. But I can't say here and now that any proposals that come from LLH will be supported. There will be an account that will be quite large, and as former government councillor Grete Knudsen knows quite well that coughing up so much extra money over the night, there is no government council – not until at least me – that has been given. Here we are also forced to work thoroughly through the problem before we give priority. I also react a little to the question of what is 400,000 kroner when it comes to the lives of young people. I would like to ask you a question, but then I would like to tell Grete Knudsen and the rest of the assembly that in 1990 the organisation received 1 million. kr. Then the amount was gradually reduced to approx. 550 000 kroner, and the last thing the government that Grete Knudsen himself was in, when it left the ship, was that the post for support to the organizations was reduced by 300,000 kroner. Then I did a cut that went beyond all the organizations, including LLH. I feel like we're at least more people who are going to blame us because the organization doesn't have as much money as Grete Knudsen wants. And I can't promise much increase in support of this organization. I can promise that they will get as much this year as last year, but the way it goes, we have to evaluate. I have also not taken the position of the Sollie selection, which has seen how the funds are distributed. But at least I don't intend to use economic instruments negatively in relation to that group, but there are other groups that also need to be considered in the debate on organisational support. When it comes to permits, I can also add that Blick was well, if not the only one, so maybe one of the few publications that got extra support last year from our government, and I'm also happy about that. We've probably taken it seriously, and we'll come back again. But my question and my challenge is really whether we're going to come back with a big message. I think that's quite okay. I don't mind. Now we have a lot of information in the NOVA report. It's not a big paper, and so it's good that Stortinget also gives him a more thorough review through a big message.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1152	I do not think this should be a debate on guilt and shame, but on people's equal and at the same time unique position as an individual. That means that everyone should have the same opportunities for human growth and expansion. Equivalence requires different opinions, life views and cultures to meet with tolerance and mutual respect on the basis of universal human rights. I think that is the starting point when we put the spotlight on the situation of homosexuals today, with the aim of improving the conditions of the individual and changing the negative attitudes that actually exist in Norwegian society today. We Nordics have a history of discrimination against minorities in Norway. Let me mention tattoos, Gypsies, Sami, Jews and also gay and lesbian. Although the official acts we have taken against these minorities in the past are, fortunately, history, there is at least one minority group left, namely the homosexuals and lesbians, and they need our attention. The Council of State noted that the situation of gays and lesbians seems somewhat better after the NOVA survey. Could it be the partnership law that has given this improvement – a partnership law that the Christian People's Party voted against? Ulrich Kartzke has said the following about tolerance: ‘To show tolerance is similar to a line dance: it is to steer neither yourself nor the opponent down from the line’.» It's just this discussion about the gay and lesbian living conditions. One must not “steered” people with another sexual laying “down from the line” through intolerance, myth and ignorance. The community sets tight values for the one who, by the majority, is perceived as different. For homosexuals or lesbians who have in the beginning often spent a long time accepting their own lay, our intolerance becomes an extra burden and perceived as if society would "steer" them off the line. Lookups in which Christian environments speak of homophilia as a cureable disease, in combination with ignorance and myths of living as gay or lesbian, do not make the quality of life and the living conditions especially easy for the homosexuals and lesbians. I agree with the interpellant that the existence of discriminatory laws must be removed, and that in the future we must ensure that Section 55(A) of the Working Environment Act, which provides the Norwegian Church with a green light for the ban on the occupation of lesbians and homosexuals in marriage positions, as well as the adoption law, is removed, so that we do not have to apologize again for the abuses committed by the public.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1172	There are serious issues about the life situation of homofiles identified in the NOVA report. It's very serious that one in four homosexuals under the age of 24 has tried to take their own lives. Suicide or attempted suicide is usually an expression of a deep, personal crisis. In general, I would say that we have a social problem when attitudes towards people get the consequences of the NOVA report. Young homosexuals, according to this survey, are particularly vulnerable to this situation. This fact must be taken seriously by all of us. However, high rates of suicide are one of several factors identified in the report. It is worth noting also other findings described in the report that may be an early expression of a difficult life situation, such as: problems with self-acceptance and self-recognition of youth discrimination at work in the form of social exclusion and bullying of younger lesbian women are subject to violence twice as often as other younger women’s lesbians and gays marked more often face threats of violence than women and men in the general population using illicit drugs are clearly higher among lesbians and homosexuals than in the general population. The feeling of isolation and solitude, of wanting to get away from an unbearable situation, abstinence, relationship to the future and the problems of accepting oneself as a lesbian/homofil were the four most difficult motives given for the attempted suicide. I am pleased that the Council of State takes this problem seriously and will follow up by introducing the necessary measures by the State. There is no reason in any way to minimize the serious message of the report, but I would like to add that positive findings were also made in the study. It turns out that lesbians and gays in the NOVA study have good friendship networks. They have more confidential friends and more frequent friends than women and men in the general population. From other research, we know that good networks increase the quality of life and work to promote health. Here, the traditional core family might have something to learn from the gays? The Christian People's Party has been accused of having a condemnatory attitude toward homosexuals. I'm sorry. At the same time, I have to say that I don't feel completely in that picture any part of the Christian People's Party in this area. We should certainly say that everyone takes responsibility for the demeaning, the negative, attitudes many homosexuals have met with. The head of the National Association for Lesbian and Homofil Liberation, Knut Sverre Røang, was interviewed in the newspaper last Sunday. He was also concerned about young homosexuals. In particular, he stressed the importance of the school's role in raising awareness. Most of us tend to take a distance from and flee from the unknown and what is different. Homofile is a minority group, but it gives us no excuse for not showing true respect. It may be interesting to note that, for example, the recently published ‘Religion Survey 1998’ reveals that there has been a marked change in the view of homosexuals among church-active people since the previous religious survey in 1991.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1214	I'll give tribute to the interpellant for a thorough review of these issues. The NOVA report shows that the situation of lesbians and gays has improved in the last 20 years. Much of the cause of the positive changes in the life situation is likely to be related to changes in attitudes of people. The attitudes of the population are an important premise for their situation in life, both because attitudes affect young lesbians and homosexuals at a stage where they need to build their identity, and because negative attitudes can take the form of offensive responses to lesbians and homosexuals who are open and visible. The survey also shows that, in terms of levels of education and income, it is positive in relation to the general population. But when it comes to social networking and social contact, the picture is different. Social isolation seems to be a bigger problem than in the general population. Lesbian and gay people are in poor health, and there is a lot of drug use, and a lot of people are plagued by anxiety and depression. It is among young women and men that the problem is greatest. As others have been in the past, one in four under 25 years have tried to take their own life. It's very serious. They experience bullying, harassment and freezing both at work and in school to a much greater extent than youth else. Even more serious is the fact that this group is much more exposed to violence and threats, in fact twice as much as among other young people of the same age group. The NOVA study shows that there is no doubt that many lesbian and gay youths are experiencing a high level of stress in their youth life. I agree that more information is needed on homophilia in primary school education. It will make it easier for young people to develop a positive self-esteem and help them further in a difficult phase. It is important that they meet with tolerance and respect, and of course they must have the same fundamental rights as everyone else. I agree with the interpellant that it is important to act quickly, because health problems and drug problems are major. At the same time, we believe that there is a need to go deeper with these questions. It requires, as the Council of State was concerned, coordination between different departments in order to achieve the best possible action plan that can work quickly. In addition, we believe that through a big message we have the opportunity to discuss these problems in more detail. I trust that the government has taken reality inwards, and I agree with all the general measures for children and young people on which the Council of State was involved. But this group needs extra effort after what is revealed in the NOVA report. On behalf of the Right and the Left, I would like to make the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a report on the quality of life and the quality of life of lesbians and gays in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1238	Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1241	One suicide is one too much, and it was outrageous to read in the Evening Post about Kai-Rune that 20 years old didn't take any more, because he was afraid that friends and family would turn his back when it was known that he was gay. Of course, I share the concern of the representative Knudsen that every fourth lesbian/homophile has tried to take his own life. The knowledge we have from the NOVA report on the quality of life and life of lesbian women and gay men is unique in Nordic context. The report provides a comprehensive documentation on issues such as family ties and social networks, life and children, open behaviour and drug use. I am pleased with the report, which has been prepared on the initiative of former Minister for Child and Family Affairs Brustad. But the Labour Party should not, however, be too hard on its governments. As late as the summer of 1996, the Government of Harlem Brundtland rejected the proposal of the AUF, the Senterung and the SU to present a big message with measures to halt the widespread discrimination against homosexuals in Norway. When I read in the evening post today that the representative Knudsen will have faster action than a big message will give, there is reason to wonder when the same person was the government council member of the Harlem Brundtland government. Then nothing happened! But back to the case. Especially alarming in the NOVA report is the fact that young lesbian/homophiles point out as a particularly stressed group. Compared with the general population and older homosexuals, much more young homophiles have experienced harassment, bullying and back talk in the workplace and in the studio. The amount that has been true to power is about five times greater than among the young in the general population. Lesbian/homophile aged under 25 differs most negatively when it comes to mental disorders. Fortunately, the image is not completely black. It is now easier to be a homofile than before. Most people have a good relationship with their families, and most people are open about their sexual orientation. But although society can show positive developments, many homosexuals still feel invisible and obscene. Young homofiles get previews when designing their own self-image. It is primarily staggering work, visualization and consciousness that can improve the situation of the gays. The ball is in a key position when it concerns the formation and breaking of meaning for children and young people. It is also important to channel information through the gay and lesbian organisations. With this in mind, I think it is fine with the proposal that is now before me, and I hope that there are several people here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1260	I fully agree with the interpellant when she says that the situation of minorities is one of the greatest value issues in this society. For SV, the fight for gay and lesbian liberation is part of the struggle for a society without any form of oppression, a society based on solidarity, freedom and equality – a society based on equality, but not on equality. We want a society with freedom to be different, with the freedom to live our own lives on their own premises and also to live out love and show it when love is directed towards our own sex. Homophils and lesbians have exactly the same human dignity as all of us, and it has to be throughout the whole of society. It demands what signals the big community sends through political decisions to the gays and lesbians. For example, the right to adoption based on the best of kids, and where no one is excluded because of sexual orientation, will be such a signal. What we define as family is another. We in SV look at lesbian and gay constellations on the same line with heterofiles, and it's important that everyone does that. It must then be a crossroads that the figures in this NOVA report, as the Council of State also said, clearly show that those who live in relationships have better mental health than those who live alone. The NOVA report highlights the need for a strong commitment to improving gay and lesbian living conditions. When every fourth young homosexual has tried to take his own life, no one who is responsible can run any longer from this responsibility, and I think this debate is proof that no one will do it now. The shocking living conditions of homosexuals and lesbians are due to discriminatory attitudes, resulting in a lack of support, social exclusion and harassment. It is a public responsibility to do something about prejudices, and it must be coordinated. Action needs to be taken in the workplace, in school, in family protection, in child protection, in health care, in culture and among youth organisations. We also believe it is time for more people to understand what significant efforts LLH is making, and that it is the only organisation that has actually taken full responsibility. That is why LLH must be guaranteed financially. I hope the Council of State will consider it when she's going to take up the allocation to the kind of non-governmental organisations, and see that here LLH is making a very unique effort. Then I am glad that the Council of State is positive that a big message is being prepared. There is a need for a comprehensive policy, as well as for the Storting to take its debate and make binding decisions. We also agree that this must take place now, but there is no contradiction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1279	Homophiles in Norway continue to meet with prejudices and, in part, open resistance and contempt. This is not worthy of a liberal society in the 1990s. The general knowledge of homofiles should be so great that it wouldn't be a burden for anyone to stand up with their lay. It should be a matter of course that the outside world's perception of a fellow human being is based on who you are, not who you fall in love with. It should not be necessary to take up the situation of homofiles in particular. But unfortunately, this NOVA report shows that this is not the case. That the negative attitudes of the environment toward homosexuals may have led young people to consider and try to take their own lives are discouraging and very thoughtful. Now it has to be said that mental problems are often complex and have complicated causes. But as politicians, we have a responsibility for social development, and we have a responsibility to prevent the attitudes of the environment from being perceived as an additional burden for those who are already struggling to find themselves and their identity. It is provocative to see the results that homosexuals are exposed to, among other things. of the so-called homo-healers, who clearly believe that homophilis is a disease. This prejudice undermines the dignity of homofiles, and it is such prejudices that politicians have a responsibility to meet. But fortunately not all young homosexuals have the same difficulty. There have been joyful changes in Norwegian society over the past decades. I dare not think of how many homosexuals who have lived and lived an unhappy life because they have tried to push their lay and push themselves into a so-called ordinary family pattern because it was the expectations of the outside world. But the film "Fucking Åmål", which goes on in Norwegian cinemas, shows us that homophilic love can be portrayed without problemating it. It's normal to be gay, and it's this society that has to make itself visible. But we can't leave the job to filmmakers and non-governmental organisations, although the last of them, of course, have a very important task and need to get support for their work. Attitudes are also influenced by laws and knowledge disseminated in schools and kindergartens. In other words, politicians have a task. Today's debate suggests that both government and population realise that we have a responsibility and want to do something about it. I am pleased that the Minister for Children and Family has addressed the problems that are made visible in the report, and that she is working with other departments and the homofiles' organization to deal with the problems. In the view of the Left, this work should include a broad review of the situation of homosexuals and the activities of the departments. The issue is complex, and it is important that several departments cooperate on action, as the Council of State suggests. For this reason, a key message including a priority list of actions in an action plan will be needed. However, this should not, of course, prevent the Council of State from taking action.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1290	In 1998, when the Stortinge dealt with the law on changes to the Law of 4 February 1997 on the protection of workers and the working environment, it became clear that the Stortinge had been divided into the view on the situation of homosexuals. In the context of Paragraph 55A, which deals with the prohibition of discrimination in employment – the second paragraph – the municipal committee concluded that there was a strong need to protect against discrimination in the employment of lesbians and homosexuals in addition to the protection against discrimination already provided by the Working Environment Act. But the majority, except for the SV and the Workers' Party, paradoxically, would not apply to religious religious communities. The Labour Party considered that it was not right that the Norwegian Church, as the only employer and organisation in Norway, should have an exclusive right to discriminate against people with a background of sexual orientation. The Labour Party would not support a new third paragraph on exemptions for religious communities, because it could lead to a situation in which opponents of homosexuals and lesbians can force by hand through a no to the employment of homosexuals and lesbians. In retrospect, it has emerged – among others. by lawyer Thor-Erik Johansen, who must be said to be an expert in labour law – that the majority of the legislation adopted seems to be illegal. Our legislation is based on the prohibition of discrimination and is not a law that opens the way for some, or some groups, to be discriminated against in the light of legal wording. I agree with those who say that the world does not go ahead for the gay and lesbians just through the law. Of course, this is about attitudes, and we all have a responsibility there. Nevertheless, in this debate, it is important for us in the Workers' Party to stress that changes are also needed in the law to improve the situation of that group of our fellow human beings. The representative, Sjøli, says that attitudes have changed in the last 20 years, and then in a positive direction. I can agree with that. But when the representative Unn Aarrestad says that nothing has happened to the Workers' Party, I believe – in all modesty – that it is the Labour Party's policy that is the reason why the world has, after all, gone a little further.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1301	Now the world is likely to move forward independently of the Workers' Party. It was a representative who talked about running away from the responsibility for the homofiles' situation from the NOVA report. The Progress Party does not intend to discharge any responsibility, but we do not want to support the proposal for a separate big message for the gays. There has been a debate about homophilia, and considerations about whether this is a disease or not. Psychologist Elsa Almås has at least stated in this debate that homosexuality has been newly reported by medical and psychological authorities, and that homophobia should therefore not exist. That is what the representatives here are talking about, I think. Various representatives point to and establish that homosexuals have the same human dignity as everyone else. Yes, of course they do! It's not something we in the Storting need to conclude that no human being lacks human dignity. Of course everyone has it. The representatives provide the NOVA report as evidence that homophobia exists in Norway. I am of the belief that focusing on individual actions – or large-scale messages for that part – on individual groups or people with aberrant sexual orientation creates attitudes that put different human groups in the booth. No new legislation or legislation is necessary. It already exists. We have a good regulatory framework to combat discrimination in all its forms. What everyone has been talking about are changes in attitude. And that's of course where we have to put the resources. Each of us, all of us in this country, must contribute to creating attitudes that accept that people are different, and from that point of view each one must try to change the attitudes that exist. Another thing you might ask is whether they've freshly reported themselves. Have they accepted their sexual orientation and the natural constraints that lie in exactly this? Or are they going to use the NOVA report to get through this case and try to accept both internally and externally?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1316	In our fateful time, in a period when Norway actually participates in war – a talking example of shortcoming – in a period when we get more than before into the Internet what racism means, what violence against minorities means, and what tolerance means, we both have to understand and do something about it. And then I, like the previous representative, don't talk about someone having different behaviors. The ones he's talking about represent a range of different groupings and minorities in our society, which have exactly the same possibilities and rights, and which should not be pointed out at all. I think we're going to have to go for other points of light than those that are related to the traditions. And then I want to mention those of the gay people who have taken the load of standing up. They deserve a real tribute and are an inspiration for others to build up their self-respect and have opinions against. From the NOVA report, we know that as a society we have reason to be ashamed, and that we have to act now. When we also know that the NOVA report is about the strongest of the gays – this report is about the strongest – and yet we know how sad it is, we also know what transparency, information and knowledge have to say. To say it with the Swedish writer and dramatist Inga Lindsjö: dig away all the wrong things we've done before. It's been a long time since the Law Road. You don't have to take any discussion in this room about who has been able to gradually bring forward everything the law is about going in the right direction. But at the end of this debate, I ask the Council of State to clarify what she said in her summary after the first article, that the Government will come back with education and health measures, and I also hope that it will be possible to address someone who needs advice, whether it is society, government or individual. In addition, I understand that the government will send a big message. It'll be interesting to know when the government thinks it's right to come up with this, because it has a little bit to do with whether or not to vote at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1325	I want to start by saying that this has been a debate that has been little bit of a blame and shame on some. Some small hints both here and there have been, but choose one of the quietest debates on this topic that I have ever been on. I appreciate that. There are difficult and serious issues we are dealing with, and they should also be dealt with with with the dignity and seriousness of the matter. I would like to comment on a few things, including: discrimination in relation to the law. Among other things, the law was laid down in relation to adoption. Then I would like to stress very clearly from the pulpit that to me it is unthinkable to go in for adoption for homosexuals. I would also like to point out that in the NOVA study, it is said that there is about one in ten who will adopt if the right to do so comes. It shows that there is not so much pressure, except that the court should have one, but one does not intend to use it to such an extent. There the relationship with the children will be the most important thing for me. So I don't want to open for a general right for gay and lesbian to adopt. So many people have underlined this by having respect for everyone. Then I want to say that it means that one must also have respect for religious societies that have their origins. I don't think either of us, maybe with the exception of one, are theological experts, and we have very easy to take a stand on difficult theological problem settings. I would like to stress that I find this difficult myself, but I trust our leaders within the Church. There they have taken a stand, and this government wants to respect what the Norwegian Church stands for in this matter. The respect that one should show to the homosexuals and lesbians should also be a show of church communities and religious communities. I'm actually expecting that. And then I want to draw up a problem that's also interesting. On the one hand, gay and lesbian want one to treat them on the exact same line as all the others. On the other hand, there are many specific measures to be taken. It doesn't always fit as a hand in hand, and I know that they're themselves concerned about what they're going to do. I think we need some special measures. At the same time, I would like to stress that having general measures in relation to youth, bullying and choice, and getting parental guidance projects into work, are positive. We're going to continue working with SHD and KUF. We also want to meet with LLH. I've said that if the Storting wants a big message, I'll do the job, but I want the Storting to know if it's a wish. Otherwise I will continue to work on the plan I have in relation to SHD and KUF. But if a big message is inconceivable – in that way, a few can also discuss more content of the NOVA report – I would like to say yes to it, but I want the Storting to vote on the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1336	I beg you to correct a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1343	Yes, under strong doubt, Grete Knudsen gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1346	SV and Right have submitted a proposal for a big message. The Labour Party has said that they agree. The representative of the Central Party has agreed. Then I actually have to ask: is it that the Council of State wants to have a vote in the Chamber over it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1351	There's a proposal on the table, and I thought the parties should be allowed to express whether they're in or not. I have said that I would like to make a big message, but I am not the one to advise the Christian People's Party's representatives. It's the other thing to do. But I want the Storting to show through voting who wants a big message, and who doesn't want it. I think that might also be good for the work on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1356	Then the President considers it to be explicitly clarified what was in the Council's response. The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is going to be over. [[Opinion on proposals, see page 2771]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1372	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1383	Document No 8:111 from the representatives of Sylvia Brustad and Karita Bekkemel Orheim, that singles should be able to adopt on equal lines with others if the seeker meets the requirements for resources and care that should be given to adoptive parents, has not received multiples in the committee. On the other hand, the Committee agrees that no one has the right or the right to adopt. The Committee assumes that adoption must always be in the best interests of the child. Therefore, all applicants for adoption must be subject to a strict assessment, which must emphasise that the applicant has both the intention and the ability to give the child a safe and harmonious upbringing. So far, the committee agrees, but shares in the view of singleness and adoption. I'm assuming that the different parties will take their point of view separately. Every day, we are reminded of many children who suffer and lack a home. In the adoption debate we've had in Norway, one can get the impression that many of the orphan children are available for adoption. But that's not the truth. In the home country of children, adoption abroad is often a very controversial and sensitive political issue, and there may be strong forces in the country to counter foreign adoption. It's actually not that millions of children are waiting for a new home in a rich western country, but millions of children need help. There are today three adoption associations that distribute adoption from abroad, and there are queues of approved couples waiting to receive adoption children. There is often little difference between living with your own or adopted children. But when you live with children from another country, there are often some extra challenges. The children come from a different culture and usually look different than adoptive parents. Children who are adopted from abroad have somehow lost those who should have been caregivers. Often a little knows about the child’s background, but we know that many of these children suffer from malnutrition or understimulation. Some of the children have also experienced physical and mental abuse. Although most adoptive children who grow up in Norway are doing well, some will. in view of problems in early childhood, have periods that may be particularly demanding. The adoption children may carry a ‘hand luggage’ that the new parents do not know about. In view of the many uncertain factors involved in foreign adoption, we have extra strict guidelines in dealing with adoption applications, and we in the Christian People's Party believe that it still has to be. The debate on adoption has been more marked by the desire of adults to have children than by the need of children for parents. The working party suggests that the individual should be given the opportunity to adopt on an equal line with others. The Christian People's Party believes that there must be stricter demands for singleness than for couples, precisely because it is more demanding to be alone about an adoptive child than when it is both a mother and a father. From the new guidelines of the Ministry of Children and the Family, it appears that in some cases one can open up to single applicants where other conditions can compensate for the fact that there is only one parent. In the regulations, there has been a softening in relation to the individual and adoption. This softening was made after the Workers' Party presented Document No. The 8 proposal, but we do not go as far as the representatives Brustad and Bekkelem Orheim do in Document No. The 8th proposal. The Christian People's Party believes that one should do its best to give adoption children both a mother and a father. If this is important in general, it's especially important for adoptive children.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1404	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1407	In many countries, single adoption applicants are seen as a major resource that can give their child their full and full attention, as opposed to when two are present. Some countries also offer the opportunity for single people to adopt. In the newspaper of Day on 7 September 1998, the Council of State says that solitude should be put to the back of the queue. The families must first, for the benefit of the child. That's what we're going to do later. Is it so that in those countries that allow lonely to adopt, the Christian People's Party will nevertheless stand alone at the back and not have the opportunity to help the children who need it hurt?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1414	The Christian People's Party has stressed that we think it's best for the child to have a mother and a father. But we've opened up so that singles who have special resources can be judged and approved as adoptive parents. There are good examples of this, that in some cases it makes sense. It is now the case that adoption applicants are approved in Norway, but it is in the rest of the world that it is determined who is being allocated to the different children. It's not that we're in Norway as sitting and deciding who's going to adopt it one or the other child. In some countries, it will be very strict when it comes to releasing children for adoption to singles, while others – such as the representative Fossum – approve it. But these are the countries that go through the approved adoption applicants and decide who gets adopted and who doesn't. It's not that sometimes you get the impression that it's the adoption associations in Norway that decide this. They have their own offices in the different countries with which they cooperate, but it is the rest of the world that assigns the children. We've said in general that it's important that we have strict rules in relation to the approval of adoptive parents, and we still keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1421	The President will ask the representative if she wants to address the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1424	Thanks for the reminder. I would like to make this point on the proposal we have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1429	The representative of Molvær Grimstad has taken up the suggestion she referred to. Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1434	Today's family structure and life patterns have changed radically in recent years. 20 years ago, the vast majority of children were born within marriage, today this only applies to half. The daily life of very many children in Norway is that they live with lonely parents and cohabiting parents. The representative Brustad and I ourselves have put forward a proposal that gives the unanimous opportunity to adopt in the same way as others if the applicant meets the requirements for resources and care that you should apply to adoptive parents. Today, there is no ban on single adoption in Norway, but a practice has developed in which it is very difficult to become single-minded as adopted parents. Over the last nine years, only one prior authorisation has been granted, with the exception of the conversion of a decision in 1997. The Ministry’s new guidelines and practices may seem to focus more on experience through work than on other experiences. This I think is a wrong way to go. It will not necessarily be a guarantee of being a better parent that an example is early childhood education. The objective must be not to discriminate where it will be essential for one to adopt that one has taken the right professional choice. The working party believes that the child’s best interests must always be taken into account, which must be the most important and the most fundamental. This means that the primary interests of the child are primarily to be cared for. It would be right to ensure the safety of children both legally and socially. In Norway, we have strict rules for adoption. And I have to ask how the Christian People's Party and the Right can think that lonely women are not suitable as mothers if for some reason they haven't born the child themselves. Research shows that it is not the lonely status that is crucial for how the child is doing, but that personal suitability, careability, flexibility in attitudes, stable and social networks, early relationship with the child and socio-economic resources play an important role. The Labour Party believes that it should be a sibling, that not everyone should be adopted. The goal must be to silt out the unsuitable persons, those who cannot be expected to take care of children because they are not personally fit for it, not to silt out suitable, willing people on too rigid and irrelevant premises. An overall committee stresses the importance of ensuring that all applicants for adoption are subject to a strict assessment, stressing that the applicant has the prerequisites and opportunities to provide a safe and harmonious upbringing for the child. There is no doubt that many children today need the care and security and the legal benefits an adoption can bring. I regret that the majority of the committee, with the exception of the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, believes that it is best to give the child both a mother and a father, according to the child's needs. Today there are very many children who suffer and who have no safe upbringing, living with their mother and father. This romanticization of two parents as the only right is, in my opinion, wrong. Many children can actually get a better life by sharing living with their mother and father. The members of the Committee of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Centre claim that the Ministry has made an embellishment of current practice. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party believe that the practices that currently work make it very difficult to be unanimously considered as adoptive parents because a special relationship with the child is required in order to be able to adopt. In Sweden, single people have had the opportunity to adopt for 30 years, and studies from Sweden show that this is going very well. Finally, I would like to address the proposals of the Workers' Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1455	The representative of the Bekkelem Orheim has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1461	The representative Karita Bekkemelm Orheim initially uses the same expressions in his post as in the notes, and places great emphasis on them, while at the same time taking a distance from the romanticization of the family, in the sense that a family consists of mother, father and child. The representative also writes in the comments: ‘These members indicate that the family structure and patterns of life have changed. 20 years ago, the vast majority of children were born within marriage, today this only applies to half. Many children live with lone parents and with cohabiting parents." This is of course, and I'm not going to go into why we've had such a development, but I guess it's not going to speculate so much in order to understand that someone who's been with the political power over the 20 years might take some of the responsibility that we've had such a development. My question is: is it that the Workers' Party and Karita Bekkem between Orheim accept and want this development, and through their proposal also want further development of children's growing up together with lonely and in a lack of patterns?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1471	Yes, now the blame is placed on the Workers' Party. We're used to taking responsibility for a lot of what's happened in Norwegian society in the last few decades, but I think it's going well if we're now also going to take responsibility for what's going on inside the house's four walls. I cannot accept responsibility for that. But what Per Sandberg asks about is an important thing. That's how we can protect to live better together in the family, and it's a challenge that all parties should address in a much better way than we've done now. "Family romance," says Per Sandberg. There is no doubt that the best thing to do is to live happily within a marriage with mother, father, and two children. But that's not the reality. Within the four walls of the house, we also experience that marriage is not necessarily the best for the children. In many cases, it is best for children to be able to get a divorce and to have a shared right of association between parents. When it comes to emphasising the comments we made in the setting we have submitted, it should be lacking. We believe that it is the best of the children that must be the decisive thing all the way. But we can't get away from the fact that there are many lonely people today who have great resources and good opportunities to give children good growth conditions. I sincerely wanted that to be seen in a slightly different way from what they have done in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1480	Karita Bekkemelm Orheim stated in his contribution that the Christian People's Party's view of adoption was negative compared to the sole caregivers. I would strongly distance myself from that. It has nothing to do with our view of single caregivers. There are many great single caregivers who make a brilliant and good effort for their children, and I'm not in doubt that the children can be well. Where parents are divorced, and it is either mother or father who has the daily company, or whether it is shared, the children still have a mother and a father. But should an open to have a very liberal policy when it comes to the possibility of adoption for single people, one opens up to a very large number of children to only have either mother or father, and there's something completely different. I want to warn you not to draw the two things together, because they're quite different. We're busy giving our children a mother and a father. Those who divorce are still mother and father, but they don't live together.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1485	What I feel about the Christian People's Party is now trying to do, is say yes. They're kind of trying to give the impression that they accept that it's okay for lonely people to adopt, but this is a disguised argument, because the Christian People's Party doesn't want it. We have a very restrictive practice. The decoration that the department has now given its approval means, in reality, that there are very few lonely people who will have the opportunity to adopt. If the Christian People's Party had really thought that solitude should be entitled to it, they would today have accepted the document proposed by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1495	The most important thing about what Karita Bekkemelm Orheim has said now, and the most important thing about the proposal is that lonely people are finally recognised as caregivers. For a long time, the problem focus has been on the lone caregiver almost as a threat to child growth. Finally, solitude is recognised as an absolute competence to take care of their own children. But now the Worker's Party falls into the opposite pit edge. Because after many years, they have found that lonely people can actually take care of their children, they now believe that when it comes to caring for other people's children, it's enough with a parent. It's diving from the edge of the ditch to the edge of the ditch. There is a great difference between being a good parent and being a caregiver for their own child, and being treated as a caregiver for the children of others. That's what we're talking about when it comes to adoption. Does the Labour Party think that the idea of two parents is really old-fashioned and should be passed on as old heritage, and that in the future we can really deal with a parent of the children?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1502	No, the Workers' Party has not become so modern that we believe it is time for us to have a family of two parents. But unlike the Right, we actually believe that we have to open our eyes to the reality that very many children today are in. Item No 1 is that many in Norway today grow up with only one mother or father. Item No 2 is that in the world today there are very many children who need a safe and healthy home. Why, then, should not lonely people who have resources, economically and socially, have the opportunity to be considered as parents of these children? Why is it that it's only if you're so lucky to live in a marriage that you have to be evaluated? The working party seems to be completely wrong. As long as you have qualities and you are subject to strict supervision as a caregiver, it must be the important thing. I must say that I believe that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party in this matter have an old-fashioned and little modern attitude towards what should be a modern family policy into a new millennium.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1507	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1510	The Progress Party has addressed this issue in several meetings of the Majority Group. And it's not to hide that in our group there was a unanimous agreement that we didn't want any further progress towards somehow making the family meaningless. The Progress Party wishes to preserve the adoption law in its present form. A restrictive law on adoption is necessary. It is also important to realize that there is no ban on the adoption of lonely sheep. Certain exceptions may be made, and the Party of Advancement wishes to be preserved. It is in those cases where the child is or is known in advance by the person to adopt. Actually, this debate is quite typical. It's wrapped up on a track that doesn't include what's best for adoptive children. The proposal of the Workers' Party is based on the rights of the single, whether or not to allow the single to adopt in the same way as couples if one meets the requirements for resources and care of an adoptive parent. This is where the Progress Party makes its assessment. The starting point must always be what is best for the child(s) concerned. This is not about the rights of individual groups, and whether solitude and homosexuality can be good employers or caregivers. I get a little bit of concern when a person looks for arguments to find forms of care for the children that are going to be almost as good as growing up in a home with normal family relationships. There is no human right to have children, neither heterophilic nor homosexual. We just don't have any right to get all of the rights that we want. Previous provisions of the adoption law stressed the need to give the child as much natural a relationship as possible to adoptive parents. The growing environment had to be on the same footing as what was common in the environment. This was particularly important because the adoption child should not be subjected to unnecessary extra loads. Children involved in adoption are already in a difficult situation. One must also ask questions about the sincere opinion of the rapporteurs — and perhaps also of the Minister for Family Affairs — in this matter. They have for many years underlined the importance of children growing up with parents of both sexes. Politicians who now do not see the problem of children growing up either with a parent or parents of the same sex are, of course, exactly the same politicians who have for years underlined the importance of, among other things, gender quota in kindergartens for the purpose of employing more men. Fear of a society where children grow up without male role figures has been their strongest argument. One of the proposers, Sylvia Brustad, is actually one of the architects behind an action plan to get more men into the kindergartens. In its 1997 Council of State, Sylvia Brustad gave an equal opportunities policy statement to the Stortinget, stressing that it is important ‘to increase the number of men in care professions and among teachers and pre-school teachers, because children also need male role images’. I could also have shown more opinions in the same direction. When I was at the same time with the family minister, it was because you have to ask what kind of light the family minister has now seen in this area since she partly left her position. It has not been long since the Minister for Family Affairs, in an answer in the Questionnaire, decided that today's practice should be continued. The question has to be: does the Minister for Family Affairs really have his own principle view of the matter, or does she become a member of the board of interest organisations? By comparison, we can record that the Minister for Family Affairs is concerned with the best interests of children in adoption cases where the age of adoptive parents is very important. For me it becomes a relatively large paradox. The vast majority of adopted children come from abroad, approx. 500-600 a year. Most of these have self-image and identity problems. It is therefore important that they have both feminine and masculine role models, that they have both mother and father. Arguing that the options for foreign adoptive children may become an orphanage or street is a total derailment. When accepting commitments, Norway also has obligations to ensure that these children have the same living conditions as the average of Norwegian children. We cannot offer children terms other than the usual in Norway because these children would in any case have had worse in their original country. I would also like to ask – like the head of the adopted National Association, Morten Johanssen: Is it so that adoptive children have somehow become a welfare asset? I see the arguments, especially from the gay organizations, that there are already 20,000 children living in a family constellation with either mother or father, and that it works well. But the difference is that it's essentially the biological mother or father they grow up with, and then either with voice or stepfather. Therefore, it simply does not constitute a proper basis for comparison. Another thing I also want to include is that there is really no shortage of adoptive parents. So there's no argument for the lonely to get a right in that regard either. I know that I have provoked the representative Sylvia Brustad in this field earlier, when we took part in a TV debate, but I can't help myself in this context either, because I can't now interpret Document No. The 8-proposal is different than when I read it for the first time. For me, there is no doubt that the proposers here have pointed out a particular group of adoptive parents who Sylvia Brustad wants to satisfy with his proposal. It is clear from the proposal that ‘continually, women with a high level of education, good networks and good economics’ are seeking adoption. ‘The world is full of children in need of care’. In this way, it is intended to give priority to some people who may not have given priority to having children, that these should be given priority to adopting foreign children. I know this will provoke, but at least I can't interpret Document No. The 8-proposal is different. Another area has also been included in the debate. This may indicate that the status of the homofiles should be adjusted in a way and that the children here are used as a means of achieving this. The head of the National Association for Lesbian and Homofil Liberation, Knut Sverre Røang, confirms this to me when he says in a newspaper report: I agree that there will probably be a few countries that will approve adoption to gay parents in Norway. But this is less important, he says in the report. What is important, says Røang further, is the principle that the homosexuals will be given the right to adopt. In conclusion, I would like to make a presentation to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities on behalf of the
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1542	The representative Sandberg has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1547	We hear again that Per Sandberg's representative is talking about the so-called normal family relationships, and I would like to ask if he believes that lone women are not fit to be mothers. And how do the Progress Party and Per Sandberg believe that political parties – including the Progress Party – should be able to decide that marriage will not end? What kind of proposals will the Progress Party be going in to make the family situation different? That's exactly what he criticized the Workers' Party for in his reply to me instead. I expect that once the Progress Party has got such a strong hand on the steering wheel of Norwegian politics, with the blessing of the Christian People's Party, divorce statistics will also go down dramatically.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1553	Finally, I can answer clearly: I am 100 pst. Convinced that with a change in family policy away from the Labour Party's last 20 years of development, we will get divorce statistics downwards. Karita Bekkemelm Orheim is trying to present it as that the Progress Party and I view lone mothers as a bad result. No, far from it! This is also very well known by the representative, Mr Bekkemel Orheim, also because I have made three proposals in the Grand Duchy concerning this issue. But the problem for children who experience cohabitation or divorce is precisely the lack of role pattern, which both proposers themselves have used as an argument in the past, and which I was involved in in my first post. So the problem lies in lack of role patterns and, to a large extent, not growing up with father. Research shows that the development we have in Norway today that children grow up without a father is the big family problem. That's the big problem for children growing up. A research report from the United Kingdom dealing with 60,000 children points to that problem, the problem of children growing up with only one parent. There's the problem. The Progress Party does not wish to further develop it by opening up the Single Party to adopt it. Then we're just strengthening the problems associated with the development that's been in the last ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1560	I have noticed with interest both the representative Sandberg's posts and the change of lines with the representative Karita Bekkemelm Orheim. I think we should note that he from this pulpit has said that he can guarantee that with a forward-looking party policy, the number of divorces will decrease. In other debates, the Progress Party has said that politicians should not interfere with the family life of people, but to interfere with whether or not to continue marriage, I see it as a strong interference in people's free elections. It has been so in Norway that many fathers have chosen to give birth to their mother, and this has given us that situation. We've also got the situation that many single mothers have actually been abandoned by fathers, so here Per Sandberg has a huge task to do, both to prevent divorce and to make fathers more active. I want him to be happy with the task, and I'm excited about what it is in the policy of the Progress Party that will make it fewer divorces. Could that be the cash support?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1567	It is interesting that the representative Fossum has noticed “with interest” some of what I have said. Of course, I have never thought about the Labour Party's policy – with coercion. I say that I think we with the Family Policy of the Advancement Party will have a family role that is more stable than breaking out of a marriage. In this context, I would like to mention the big debate in 1989, when the Chairman of the Advance Party in the election campaign got backwards, to put it straight out, when we talked about lone mothers and their rights. It is interesting to note developments from 1989 until today. In fact, the Labour Party has taken action towards what we said in 1989 to prevent the issue of the rights of single mothers from becoming a long-term problem. Now it's no longer the case that one can go on transitional benefits for ten years, now it's no longer the case that one can receive double child benefits if one establishes a new cohabitation. From 1 May this year it is also not possible for a person to receive transitional benefits if a cohabitation has been averaged in 12 of the last 18 months. This is not a proposal that has been promoted by the Progress Party, but we have supported them. We pulled this out and discussed it in 1989. Now we've strengthened the rights of the lone mothers, and now we get them out of the home, which Grethe Fossum is so afraid of. We don't intend to choose for people who marry. It is the Workers' Party that has set up guidelines and laws that make them have no choice, or that it is easier to choose from a marriage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1576	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1579	Where the proposed document refers to the fact that during the last 10 years the party had the governmental power, only two adoption authorisations were granted to the unanimous – one of which was granted after appeal against rejection – this suggests that the legislation for the approval of adoption applicants has been interpreted very restrictively by the Workers' Party, in fact much more restrictive than the law suggests. I interpret the Council of State's circular on how to understand the legislation as an indication that, under given conditions, unanimity should be considered as an adoptive. The proposal in Document No. 8:111 goes beyond this. It is proposed that unanimity be given to adoption in the same way as married couples. But that's what we think in the Right is going too far towards making adoption law a law for adults. It is not the interests of adults who are to be protected by this law, it is the safety of children in relation to the fact that they are to be legally anchored in a family which is normally not their own but which must have in all respects the rights and obligations of parents vis-à-vis the child. The wide-ranging impact of an adoption suggests that adoption applicants must find themselves in an in-depth assessment of both personal characteristics and likely prospects for the best care of an adopted child. Right-wing agrees with the Council of State that the best thing for a child is to have a mother and a father living in harmony with each other. It provides security in everyday life, and that means that the child also has two relatives in his natural network. Many Norwegian children have an excellent life even though only one of the parents is present in the child’s everyday life. This does not mean that the child loses neither one of the parents who does not have a daily relationship with the child nor the parent’s relative. In any case, the child has two relatives, which is a safety net in case something should happen around a child. Children who are adopted by a unanimous will not have this security. Nor is there any certainty that the adoptive family will take responsibility for an adoptive child, if anything should suit the adoptive. This must be taken into account when considering granting adoption approval. Now many people would rightly say that a parent is better than none. Of course it's right. However, the situation is not such that there is a queue of adoption-released children on the border with Norway waiting for adoption parents. On the contrary, the queue of couples waiting to adopt a child is far greater than the need that one points out. In such a situation, it must be the duty of society to care for the interests of the child in the first place, in front of the desire of adults to be parents. We must not forget that behind every adoption lies a tragedy, because it is basically a tragedy for a child when circumstances prevent it from growing up with its own natural parents. The tragic background of the child is something that has to be reckoned with, it won't be gone because if the child is adopted. This is a luggage that the child always carries. Therefore, it is so important that the assessment of each individual adoption application and the assessment of who could become adoptive parents to which children is well thought out and thorough. From time to time, such an assessment could conclude that a lone person who has a special relationship with the child or who has a special knowledge of the child’s background — cultural background, health, family awareness — is usually the one who has the best conditions to give a special child a good future. In such cases, it should be obvious that civil status is irrelevant and that adoption approval should be granted. That's what I'm interpreting in the Council's opinion on special resources in relation to children, that this is about special resources in relation to certain children. The fact that the applicant also has a good network is of course an advantage, but the importance of this cannot be given too much weight, because networks change, more often and faster today than before, because people move more often, break up from their homes more often, and then the network changes. No one is married to their network, and a network cannot be imposed obligations in relation to a single adoptive child. Nor is it natural for relatives, friends and colleagues to be exposed to the assessment of public authorities when a one-off application to be assessed as an adoptant is made. I have noticed that the importance of networks is not mentioned in the circular, only in the deepening of circulars by the Council of State. All in all, with the clarifications I've made here, the Right's view of adoption is broadly consistent with what is expressed by the Government. Should the situation change, if the number of adoption-released children exceeds the number of adoption-seeking couples, we are facing a new situation and the legislation needs to be reviewed. It is, and it will always be, the best that the child must weigh more heavily when assessing the adoption rules. Should there be excess on children, one parent is better than none. But so far, we can offer adoption children coming to Norway, two parents with good stability. That still has to be the general rule.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1600	This is a case with many sides. The proposal was launched almost a year ago, and after that, a lot has happened on this front. In a circular from September 1998 from the Ministry, a relaxation of practice was made so that the individual is now able to be assessed as an adoptive parent. Furthermore, adoption laws have not previously prohibited the adoption of singles. However, a restrictive practice has led to the belief that having two parents gives children greater security. In the meantime, policies have indicated that adoption rights have initially been granted to individuals only if they have had a special relationship with the child before adoption. This may be through relationships with relatives, foster children or if the seeker has had special resources in relation to the child. In addition, emphasis shall be placed on the specific knowledge and experience of the applicant with children. Similarly, emphasis must be placed on whether the seeker has a stable and good network where the child can get in touch with both sexes through growth. If a single person is responsible for a child, the network around it is very important. If something should happen, for example: disease, it may be very difficult if you are completely isolated. Besides, it is also a fact that many of the adoptive people require extra resources. They are usually not adopted until they are half past two years of age. Then many of them have found it very difficult in their former environment, whether they have been here in the country or abroad. They will therefore often suffer injuries that appear to recur later on. It is the responsibility of the adoption board as far as possible to ensure that adoptive children, both from Norway and abroad, are placed in families with the best means of following up the child. If this is important in general, it's especially important for adoption children. These children have simply lost both their parents and other relatives. They may need just the strength that belongs to the new parents and their relatives and networks. Potential adoptive parents are subjected to a very careful examination, in which everything from family economics and housing standards to social networks and whether one is a personal strata is tested. That's the way it has to be, especially when it's about adoptions from abroad. The children who thus get a new life in Norway, have all had a cool start. Many of them have bid their first months at a children's home, which can never be a suitable alternative to a family of their own. Now many of them come to their first real home. They usually have a need for care far beyond what is normal. It is important to note that adoption laws do not allow a right to adopt for applicants. Applicants must be able to provide a safe and harmonious upbringing for the child. In addition, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Hague Convention state that the best interests of the child must be fundamental. It also appears that single adoption seekers are consistently very resource-intensive. Since the introduction of the new guidelines in September, the Ministry, as the Board of Appeal, has decided on ten applications from the individual, eight of which have been pre-consented to adoption. This shows that there is no great reason to complain about the decisions that have been taken. Besides, it's reasonable to think that not all of us are equally capable of doing this. I am primarily concerned that the children should have a good and harmonious growth, and that they should feel accepted and respected. Many of the children have special needs that can address physical, mental, cultural or social issues. Parents, whether it be single or adoptive, are in much of their lives the most important people for their children. But all parents will sometimes feel uncertain in their roles and in how they should be at the best for their children. Then it's important to have a good network, whether it's relatives, friends, neighbors, health centres or kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1619	In the future, there will be a need to consider whether the Ministry's adornment of practices in relation to lonely, in fact, offers unaccompanied opportunities to be assessed as adoptive parents. This change is of such a new date that practice is not yet clear, but, in the SV’s opinion, much more needs to be opened up in order for solitude to be good caregivers for children in line with couples. The child's best for all of us will be the most important thing, but excluding people from adoption based on whether they are single or couples must not be a primary qualification. A number of other countries include the possibility of unanimity to adopt at the same time as couples, and we do not have to go beyond Sweden or Denmark to see differences from our legislation. Our neighbouring countries have increased their legislation in line with changes in society and changes in family patterns. I refer to the proposal on which we stand with the Labour Party. Then to the further debate, because it is coming. SV sees that the big debate becomes about the assessment of lesbian and gay couples as adoptive parents. In a letter to the Committee dated 9 February 1999, the Council of State said that she has initiated a study into the question of how best to ensure children living with a lesbian or gay parent and her or his partner. The Council of State said in its letter in February that the work was well done, and that, before she takes a final position on the question, she will look into the results of the NOVA's survey on living conditions and quality of life in relation to homosexuals and children. We've discussed that before today. As we know, this study came shortly after, and shows that 13 pst. by the women and 8 pst. of men already have children. It also shows that 12 pst. by women and 2 pst. men live with children of their own or partners. 10 pst. by the women and 8 pst. men want the possibility of steped child adoption. As the survey is now available and the figures are so clear, SV assumes that the Government will come back with proposals for further changes to the adoption legislation as well as to the Partnership Act, so that children living in these family relationships are also ensured in line with other children. In our opinion, it does not hold to give the possibility of sterilisation only after the death of a biological parent, for whom the possibility has been suggested in the past. SV believes that we already have a incorporated law and practice in matters where spouses want to adopt biological parents' children. There is no need to provide new solutions for registered partners. Furthermore, SV believes that the possibility of homofiles’ right to adoption on the same line with heterofiles must be further investigated later, not only the possibility of ste children’s adoption, but always with the best starting point for children. We realize that it's a little bit further, but we'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1632	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1635	I have a question that goes more directly on the proposal itself and how it should be perceived. Since I did not hesitate to reply to the main speakers of the Workers' Party, I have to take it in relation to the other proposer. The problem I would like to ask for an answer to, I will try to formulate as precise as possible. First of all – and you could be a little excited about that – it says in the proposal ‘on the same line with others’, and I would assume that ‘others’ in this case are married couples. I guess it's more of a typo that's not that important. But what's my problem, in fact, is what's in this 'equal line with' when we're starting from a lonely one? Does that mean that the lone parent should be assessed as a caregiver regardless of whether or not to decide that it will not be a spouse representing either being a father or a mother for the child, or should the fact that the child will then have only a parent – not both mother and father – be a factor to be taken into account, but that there will then be questions about the importance of the consideration that comes in here? So, I kind of feel that in this case, by saying 'on the same line with', there's something that stays open and unexplained, just related to that relationship. The fact that there is one parent, is there any consideration that should be given to the weight of the assessment of adoption at all, or is it a matter that should be irrelevant and uninteresting?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1642	I was a little unsure if it was the lawyer Harald Hove standing here. What we want is for lonely people to have the opportunity to be assessed as adoptive parents in line with couples in society. The reason for that is that we sincerely believe that solitude has opportunities to give children good growth conditions, good networks, in line with what the couple want. It is that there are many lonely people who have a lot of resources to give to children and who can give children good growth conditions. It is already true that many children live with lonely parents. We believe that they show that they are good parents, and so will lonely adoptives. But once again, it's the best thing for children to stay in focus all the time, and there's the possibility of obtaining adoption to be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1649	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1653	First, I must be allowed to comment on the answer to my reply that it tends to be the politician Harald Hove who is standing on this pulpit, and not any professional. I must say that there is a somewhat strange starting point for this debate. And that's that up to a year and a half ago, the Workers' Party was in position. During the time the Labour Party was in position, it is clear that the restrictive practices that are now being proposed for change must have been developed. This means that the Workers' Party in opposition clearly believes something different about these issues than what the Workers' Party did as long as they were in position. We from the government parties have been constantly met with a statement in the direction that we have discovered the reality after we got in position, and it could then be a little interesting question to ask the Workers' Party, whether it is such that they now feel that they have experienced the reality after they came into opposition, a reality that they did not see and became familiar with in the period they were in position. Because over the 13 years we've had the current adoption law, we're actually in the situation that the Workers' Party has had the government power for ten of the 13 years. If it is the case that a restrictive practice has been developed here, it must be the Workers' Party which is responsible for this and which is responsible for the far too restrictive practices that are now being proposed to change. What happened when you got a new state council and a new government, was just that there was a change in the practice that had developed and that had been established. And it is clear that the practice has not changed enough, which in that case is the starting point for the proposal which is also promoted by them as the last year of the Workers' Party's reign, it had direct responsibility for the subject matter to which this applies. There's actually reason to notice a certain curious interest that the Workers' Party has quickly found reality after they came into opposition. I remember that this proposal – after what was said earlier – is apparently one year old, so it was after a very short time you found out. The left we can say has clearly been in doubt about what position we should take on this matter, and how we should vote. But given the fact that there has been a change in practice here, and given that we do not yet know so much about what that change leads to, we believe that it might be right to wait for something, before perhaps going into the question of whether it might be right to agree on a proposal to go further and change more. That means that we are going to vote against the proposals of the Labour Party and the Advance Party, and against the vote, and vote in favour of the proposal of the other two central parties. I would like to stress that there is a difference between the proposal put forward by the Progress Party and what the two central parties are behind in the vote, namely that one is about rejecting the proposal, and the other is about attaching that protocol. There is a certain difference in reality as to the extent to which the proposal is taken or not. Clearly, changes in family patterns have occurred over time. That's how you go about. 30 years back in time, the vast majority of children were born to parents who were married to each other. In today's situation, almost as many children are born by parents as at the time of birth are cohabitants, as by married parents. What's actually interesting is that the number of really lonely hasn't changed much over a very long period of time. We have had a bit of a strange debate about children today, as to whether they are best off with one or the other parent situation, etc. I think it's important to distinguish between a slightly more general question and a little more concrete in terms of what's best. Children may feel good living with both of their parents, children may feel good living with one of their parents, and children may feel bad living with both of their parents – that could vary a bit. Finally, I think that some of the problem here might be that we don't have the same belief as the Workers' Party and the Swedish Government is able to issue certificates for who are good parents, and who are bad parents.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1672	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1675	The representative Hove made a point that the government of the Workers' Party had not done its job, but I think maybe he should read the story somewhat differently. We had developed a policy that made it difficult for lonely to adopt, but in the time of the family minister Sylvia Brustad she began to embellish it, and handed it over to a Christian People's Party government that wanted to be more restrictive. So the history description of the representative should probably be different. It is quite clear that when the Workers' Party saw that the process we had started was reversed, we wanted to promote this document no. The 8th proposal. There is also a background that the representative should take with him. The left says they're in doubt. There's nothing new for any parties that left is still in doubt. They're in doubt, because they'll see what this leads to, and they'll wait. But why won't the Left in this period have more investigation and get the Government to comment on it? Why doesn't the Left want to know about this, because that's what the Left says no to today? I am surprised that the Left has weakened the lonely, weakened its liberal attitude, and now shows its conservatism. This I think is surprising.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1686	One of the things I'm most happy to recognize here in life is the ability to doubt. I'm also very pleased on behalf of the Left to be able to say that we can still be in doubt, and that we also dare to acknowledge it openly. I think that the difference between the Left and the other parties is that we are more just willing to admit ourselves openly to doubt, while other parties are trying to cover it in different ways through majority decisions, which then become the final position of the parties for all the representatives. If we today fail the lonely, it is a very strong characteristic of what the Workers' Party has been doing for ten years with government power. In that case, it will be in charge of the replicator's bill and will not be signed by me. With regard to the development process that was mentioned here, it may be that there is a correct description of the history. I just notice that if it is right that Sylvia Brustad started a process when she was the Council of State, she did not succeed in getting to the goal of the scarce year she was the Council of State. State Council Election Response City Haugland has at least come to terms with a change. And then we'll see after a while if the change is as big as we want.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1695	The regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is up. The President will propose that the change of lines be brought to an end before the morning’s meeting is cancelled – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1698	We all have the right to doubt. What is surprising is that the left continues to doubt, and when they have taken the doubt into account, they attach that protocol. When all of us have doubts, we try to get more knowledge of the matter. That's why we want a review, so we want to look at what this is. When Hove says that state councillor Haugland has made a change, I have to ask, OK, but what do you do? Is the Left now satisfied that solitude will be given the opportunity to be assessed, as the Labour Party will, or is he interested in what the Council of State will, namely to make this as difficult as possible? It's okay for the Left to doubt, but why not get more knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1703	At least I've got Grethe G. Fossum's acceptance that doubting can be a good quality, so I thank you for that. As I have said, the Left has been in doubt about how we should vote today. So we've decided to vote so that we can attach this protocol. That means that's what you're doing in this game. So you haven't taken any definite position that what's suggested would necessarily be undesirable if you had to figure out in a while that it would be right to go on. Then I'm not quite sure if it's a correct characteristic of the practice of the Ministry of Children and Family that this should be done as difficult as possible, but the Council of State would be able to say something about and clarify in its article.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-20.ana.ud545e1712	The President is in no doubt: this morning's meeting is now over. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18. in line with the Rules of Procedure.
