ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e50	President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl and representatives Anneliese Dørum, Ursula Evje, Tomas Norvoll, Thore Aksel Nistad and Arne Lyngstad, who have been licensed, have again taken up seats. They called for alternates, for Oslo Anders C. Shaastad, and for Rogaland County Toril Haaland Horpestad, have taken seats. From 9 June to 11 June, the representative of Gunnar Schaug shall apply for leave to attend a meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Kiev. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Morten Olsen, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e99	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e104	I suggest Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e109	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is unanimously elected president of the meetings on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e117	The representative of Ågot Valle will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e121	On behalf of Kristin Halvorsen and myself, I would like to make suggestions on the establishment of media assistance offers for victims and relatives in serious criminal cases.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e126	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will propose that agenda no. 102 to be cancelled at 10 p.m. 15 for the consideration of supplementary agenda No 104. – Furthermore, the President will propose that the morning meeting then continue beyond the scheduled time. 15 to the supplementary agenda has been finalised. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e142	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group of parties and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e153	Then we finally came up with the Stortinges treatment of St.prp. No 33 for 1998-99 and Innst. S. No 203, which deals with certain organisational changes in maritime defence. The process has taken a very long time both in the Defence Department and in the Department. There have been great frustrations within the Maritime Defense Department and in some of the municipalities concerned. We have a great deal of understanding and agree that most of the implicated parties should be involved in the process, but no-one is profiting from necessary restructuring. The Committee believes that there can be a great deal of frustration for employees about future migration processes elsewhere in the defence sector. When it took so long, you would think that the proposition would be extra good content. But unfortunately, in the view of the majority, it did not. Many of us, on the other hand, believe that the proposition is both thin and buttony and provides too weak a basis for the decisions we are about to make. It shall not be charged to the present Council of State, which does not, this time, carry the fun of a bad proposition. It was, as you know, presented under the previous Council of State. Our hope is that future propositions will be better than the one we are dealing with now, right decisions are difficult to include for weak basic material. I would like to give good advice from the Committee to the Council of State: the views of central hearing bodies should be reflected in the text of the proposal – not just that they have been heard, but what the central organisations meant. This is done in other departments, and then you don't have to read through half a meter high A4 pile of supporting documents. In addition, good Norwegian language should be used in propositions, and they should not be speculated with military terms that are incomprehensible to those of us who have not had their daily function in the Defence. So switch to the technical content of the proposition. This is a new phase in the conversion processes in the Defence Department that has been going on for many years now. Why are these conversion processes necessary? Well, because the defence has changed its concept of operation, it has new priority tasks, changed skills requirements and, last but not least, it has tightened both operating and investment budgets. The proposition does not deal with construction or civil engineering, nor with the civil positions to be held in the new organisation. These pages will be re-examined after we have adopted the new organisation. Nevertheless, this reorganisation will mean reductions of more than 200 mills and more than 350 mills. kr. We have seven maritime defence districts today. These are proposed. The Government proposes to set up three new maritime defence districts, and the Committee agrees. The work of the regional organisation lies in the regional tasks. This includes responsibility for regional planning, such as mobilization planning and planning, resource management, such as economics and logistics, overall administrative responsibility for the activities of the Maritime Defence Agency within its own territorial responsibility of the coast, assistance for defence commands, maritime security, maritime security and reinforcement planning, and contact with regional military and civil government and local authorities within the overall defence framework. The government proposes to create six war stations and Ramsund Orlogsstation will survive as it is now. The Committee agrees. Station duties shall be taken care of by the Orlog stations. These tasks are performing logistics in peace, crisis and war, i.e. the storage and maintenance of materials, weapons and ammunition. They shall be responsible for setting up the stationary and mobile strength structure of maritime defence in their region, supply and management towards the operational units, duties towards the Sjöheimewert, they shall receive alliert fleet visits and support the local management of construction. In choosing the location of the three district losses, attention has been paid to the military and operational aspects, the geographical priorities of the Maritime Defence Manager, the exploitation of existing infrastructure, the economy and tasks relating to the overall defence. The co-location of regional organisations with a war station will allow economies of scale to be achieved. The government proposed the North Maritime Defence District added to Olavsvern in Tromsø, Maritime Defence District west of Haakonsvern in Bergen and Maritime Defence District south of Marvika in Kristiansand. The majority of the Committee agrees with the Government in the first two elections, but the majority have ended up placing the Maritime Defence District south of Karljohansverm in Horten. This option is based on saving 29 million. kr more, the Chief of Defense's recommendation on this matter, the military environment with, inter alia, Command School for Maritime Defence and the Kystartillery and Marine Technology Environment of the newly built Monitoring Centre The Workers' Party's group in the country to place the Maritime Defence District north of Ramsund Orlogsstation in the municipality of Tjeldsund on the basis of an overall assessment, including regional and political considerations. The municipality of Tromsø is a press area in the north, while the municipality of Tjeldsund needs a lot more state jobs. The government also proposed to lay down Hysne's practice department in Rissa Municipality, reduce close-up education and move this department to Trondenes. This is because it is believed that there is a reduced need for training of personnel in the Kystartillery war structure. The majority of the Committee agrees with this, while a minority, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, believe that Hysne's practice department should continue which is now also in the future in order to have a small military department in the part of the country where our pre-storers are located and which should be carried out throughout the Trondheim fjord if necessary. The government also proposes to phase out Brimse and Bolarne minefields from 1 August 1999. This is in agreement with the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e183	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e186	The previous speakers presented both the Committee's views and the views of the Working Party on the selection of structures. And in the case of part of the elections that the Workers' Party has passed, and as the decision in the election expires, there is someone who has a different device than the Defence Manager has entered into. In the light of the budgetary developments which the Labour Party has also contributed to, and which I am registering, could still mean cutting the defence budget in the context of the revised national budget, is the question: is it more important for the Workers' Party to maintain the regional policy profile than to achieve the greatest possible financial savings, in order to achieve the objectives set in terms of saving the structure? I would simply like to know: is it the case that the Labour Party chooses the rural policy solutions rather than those that provide the best possible economic development?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e191	To the question of whether the most important thing is the district profile, I would say, no, it isn't. The most important thing for the Workers' Party is that we get good military professional solutions. However, we also have some wording in the Workers' Party's programme that, if this is possible and it does not have significant economic consequences, we must also take into account the rural profile. We know that in North Norway there has been a great dislocation, especially from the small municipalities, while Tromsø is the municipality you actually move to. And 15 positions, in our opinion, mean less for Tromsø than 15 positions means for the municipality of Ramsund. But we're concerned that we're both going to get savings and that we're going to get the best possible solutions in terms of military science as well. These considerations have to be weighed against each other, and we have to make an overall assessment here, we believe in the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e196	The working party has, through the examination of this matter, chosen the most expensive solution for the defence. Saving seems to be so bad that it actually approaches zero. In a comment on the Government's communication on adapting the Defence for Participation in International Operations, Bjørn Tore Godal to the Evening Post yesterday stated the following: ‘I understand the Government so that the expenditure on the intervention force can be covered within the framework of the long-term programme through the restructuring and reorganisation of the defence.’ My question is as follows: When and in what way will the Workers' Party start its participation in savings measures within the Defence? The Workers' Party does not want to increase the defence framework, but will at the same time oblige the Defence Party to continue with activities that it does not need. I want to know where the credibility of the Workers' Party's defence policy is in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e208	It's actually a little strange that one of the government parties asks about exactly what was being asked about, because of the government's own proposition, it turns out that the government has not taken out the profit you could have made in terms of the Maritime Defence District South, at a total of $29 million. kr. It's actually the Labour Party and the Advance Party that have gone in to take out that gain, and it's true that we're going to turn the rest of the numbers in the proposition a little bit, so we're going to get a more expense. But it has to be saved over 350 million. kr. If you count on the changes that the Workers' Party is making, then we're going to put down seven district staffs and set up three district staffs, I have to say that if you don't manage to save almost everything from the proposition, even with the two judgements that the Workers' Party is doing differently from the Government, I'm not quite impressed with the calculation skills. For 220 years of work also means savings, I can't imagine anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e213	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e216	The starting point for this proposition is a professional-military assessment based on strength structure and economy. The Proposition addresses changes to the Regional Maritime Defence Organisation, which includes seven maritime defence districts and Ramsund Wars Station. The Proposition also addresses certain changes in the production of strength and the structure of war in the Maritime Defence. The rapporteur has taken the more fundamental points of view of the proposition, and I therefore find it unnecessary to repeat this, but nevertheless I would stress the importance of it. The most important factors to be taken into account when selecting the location of the three maritime defence districts proposed are military matters, including the operational and geographical priorities of the Defence Manager and the Inspector-General, tasks relating to the overall defence of the region, the exploitation of existing infrastructure, communication relations, command station, etc. and that the places are economically beneficial. Maritime defence districts should also be co-located with a war station in order to achieve the most synergies in terms of size and administration. Taking these important assessments into account, it seems strange, to say the least, that the Government proposes Maritime Defence District south to Marvika at Kristiansand. On the basis of the above-mentioned motives, which have also been taken into account when the Government has proposed that the Maritime Defence District North be added to Olavsverk at Tromsø and Maritime Defence Districts west to Haakonsvern at Bergen, it would be very interesting to know the real motive of the Government to add the Maritime Defence District south to Marvika at Kristiansand despite the professional recommendations of the Chief of Defense and the Inspector General, and in spite of the Department's investigation, which shows that the Marvika option will be 29 million. kr more expensive than the location at Karljohan's shelter in Horten. So the Chief of Defence and the Inspector-General's recommendation is that the Maritime Defence District in the south is added to Karljohan Protection at Horten. Karljohans protection lies close to most co-operative partners in total defence. Existing infrastructure and local activities can be exploited by the co-location of the Maritime Defence District at Karljohansvermner Orlogsstation. A solution with a loss of district and a war station at Karljohansverm is intended to provide a saving of approx. 80 years and approx. 116 million. kr. Based on these simple facts, the Advance Party will recommend that the Maritime Defence District South be added to Karljohansvern at Horten. However, Marvika War Station has indisputably a very large number of calls for vessels, which means that the Progress Party, like the rest of the Committee, attaches great importance to the need to ensure a sufficient number of annual works so that the War Station can perform its duties satisfactorily in connection with allied visits, etc. Furthermore, the Advance Party will propose that the Maritime Defence Districts west be added to Haakonsvern at Bergen, which is intended to provide a saving of approx. 70 years and approx. 138 million. kr. Maritime defence district north has been proposed to Olavsvern at Tromsø, which is supported by the Progress Party. The Maritime Defence District will then be located near the operational units of the Marines operating there and covering the vast sea areas of our northern regions. The solution is intended to provide a saving of approx. 80 years and approx. 144 million. kr. The changes presented regarding the seven maritime defence districts and the closure of the Hysne training department provide a significant potential for savings. It turns out that if the Hysne Training Department is maintained, there will be trained personnel who are not needed in the Kystartillery. This leads to the need to reduce educational capacity elsewhere in order to avoid overproduction of local defence personnel and strengths to the Kystartilleriet. It also appears that the savings potential for reorganisation is reduced by maintaining the Hysne Training Department, as indicated by the proposition. The overall reduction, as shown by the adjustment, could amount to around 220 mills and operational savings after completion of an organisational change of approximately 370 mills. kr. Any change in relation to the proposed vote will weaken the defence budget. For me, it is primarily, and it should be for everyone, that when decisions are taken in the Storting, it should be followed up and realized. I have a strong impression that so not always is the case with regard to the Defense, and I could mention examples of this. My impression is that, after a decision is taken, samples will be reduced to an excessive extent to be assessed. It often seems pointless and unnecessary and reveals plugs in the system. This must end, and I expect the decisions taken in this room to be implemented, and not subsequent desert-free assessments of more or less self-appointed samples – not least in respect of the Storing and of individuals for whom such reorganisations often cause problems. The process until treatment in the Storting has taken a long time and has created uncertainty and concerns in the organisation. The Committee believes that it must be an objective to reduce the time spent in the investigation into migration processes in the Defence. The Progress Party will point out that once reorganisation has been carried out, it will need to be evaluated in order to confirm whether the objective has been achieved – this in relation to the response solutions, annual reductions and economic gains. Otherwise, I will refer to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e248	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e252	The last speaker pointed out that Marvika is a place where there are many calls from international ships. And that's right. If you look at the statistics, Marvika had 94 ships, while Karljohans protection only had 24. My question to the Progress Party, which is in favour of establishing the Maritime Defence District south of Karljohansvern, is: Does the Progress Party think it is a good signal to give our allies who come to practice, that they are taken care of by a storage function? The progress party should just be busy giving the place that receives our allies, a status that allows us to accept them with dignity. Does the Progress Party believe that the recommendation of operational commanders, as Commander-in-Chief of South Norway – ECS – should only be disregarded?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e259	So it turns out that the representative Eriksen is also one of those who haven't been able to distinguish what a maritime defence district is from what a war station is. In the post that I now made, I just put emphasis on adding material to Marvika War Station, because it has as many calls as it has, not least international. I therefore cannot quite see what Eriksen means by this. If she mixes Marine Defense Districts and War Stations, I understand what she means.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e266	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e269	‘Change-over measures will be a critical factor in providing economic freedom of action in order to realise the strength structure of the Defence in the future’, read St.prp. No Thirty-three. A decisive argument in this proposition is to achieve an operational savings following a previous organisational change. In other words, the aim is to save money, while at the same time shaping the organisation against future tasks. The marine defence is like the Defence for other aspects of mobility requirements. The time of fixed cannons is definitely over. Mobility is now required. When the demand for redeployment and phase-out of activities then meets the local population around Norway, defence policy is municipalised. By that I believe that considerations other than professional military play as a basis for decision-making. The time when the defense could grow firm in every city and branch is over. The stationary is then in utmost consistency as opposed to the mobile. The recommendation to establish three maritime defence districts is based on an adaptation to new task priorities in Defence. This is based on a changed operational concept, a change in skills needs and a tighter operational budget. Following an overall assessment, the government has chosen to promote Marvika as a proposal for the location of the Maritime Defence District South. Karljohans protection is a good alternative and seems to provide a little better savings in the short term than Marvika. The importance of cooperation with the regional plan team in the Army and the military cooperation with our allies is emphasised when Marvika is elected instead of Karljohans protection. In the context of the practical establishment of the district staff in Kristiansand, the difference in costs compared to the Horten option shall be minimised. Localisation of the Maritime Defence District north of Olavsvern at Tromsø will take good care of the proximity of military and civil partners. The closure of Hålogaland Maritime Defence District will affect Harstad and Lødingen. 42 of the 117 total proposed removals are continued in other establishments. In cooperation with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Defence will provide a special follow-up programme for the municipalities of Lødingen and Rissa. The content of the programme will be drawn up in the Government's draft budget for the year 2000 within an economic framework of 24 million. over three years. Some words about changes in power production: Hysne's practice department is currently training close-arm personnel to Kystartilleriet's war structure. The phasing out of a series of rapid upsurges over the 1990s reduces the need for local defence personnel. You could say that continuing Hysnes would result in trained personnel you don't need, with money you don't have. The savings potential of shutting down Hysnes is essential — the main economic argument for promoting this proposition. Yesterday it was 55 years since the D-day in Normandy. According to the newspaper Fosna-Folket on 25 May today is proclaimed D-day for Hysnes. I sympathise with rapporteurs and others who are making a big deal for their local environments. Defence has in many places been the main territorial policy instrument, with secure jobs and a prerequisite for other activities. The transition to a new structure of war with emphasis on mobility will change dramatically for many communities in the future. Reorganisation and phase-out of activities are necessary for the defence of future tasks. Of course, the regional policy role of the defence shall continue where this is appropriate for the future tasks of the defence. With this reason, the Christian People's Party will support the Government's proposal to close the Hysne Training Department with effect from 1 August 2000. I also refer to the Government's announced follow-up programme for the Rissa Municipality. I would like to make a comment on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Center Party, on the location of the Maritime Defence District south of Marvika, Kristiansand.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e286	Einar Holstad has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e289	The size constantly imposes the defense to rationalize the operation in order to transfer the means to obtain material, so that one gets the most defence effect out of each krona. A good example of this can be found in the next page of today's map. But when the defense then suggests plans for such rationalization to the Storting, we too often see that the plurality here in the house does not follow up. They bow to local pressure, and the effect of rationalization is watered out. The main problem of Norwegian defence today is the lack of consistency between the objectives set by the Storting and the resources that are being allowed. Moreover, when the bulk of the population is not in favour of rationalisation decisions, this situation is exacerbating even more. The matter we are dealing with now, unfortunately, seems to be an example of this. And let me say it this way: A big thing that turned away for what is unpopular, but necessary, is an accident for the country. In such cases, a very special responsibility rests with the government party. A government that, in controversial matters, is not backed up by its own large-scale groups is hardly a particular beneficiary for the country. When it comes to the specific issues that are now being dealt with, the Right Government supports at all points. We are certain that the number of maritime defence districts will be reduced from seven to three, and that they should be located in Olavsvern, Haakonsvern and Marvika. In the north, it's most obvious to save by adding it to Olavsverm, and I don't see any professional grounds that would provide anything else than to put it there. When it comes to the issue of the Southern Maritime Defence District to be added to Kristiansand or Horten, right-wing decisive emphasis is placed on the recommendation from the top-ranking government in South Norway. He's the one who's supposed to be the top operative in the country in war. The Horten was our most important operational marine city in the past, and will still have many important tasks within the Maritime Defense. But Kristiansand with Marvika has too far sailed up to become the most important marine city in our time in South Norway, next to Bergen with Haakonsvern. Not least the allied exercise pattern in the North Sea and Skagerrak underline this. When it comes to the financial side of the case, we have noticed that Aplan Viak AS, who has gone through the calculations, concludes that they are so loose that they should not be given decisive weight when it comes to the location of the Maritime Defence District. As a result, contact with the operational environment and the outlook for the EEAS will be decisive for the conclusion of the Right. When it comes to Hysne's practice department, we only need to know that the development of defence, with a much reduced number of coastal forts, means that there is no longer any use for it. Emergency tasks have been withdrawn, but they are the other ones that take care of them. The question is whether Hysne's practice department or the Trondenes should be phased out. The government concluded with Hysnes, and the Right has reached the same conclusion after a thorough assessment. It's never with a light heart that goes in to shut down a defense enterprise that's got a strong place in a community, and it's a strong desire in the community to keep doing it. But as I was in the past, it's not possible just to keep up with the importance of the past. We can't afford that. If a plural number here today goes in to keep up the Hysne practice department at the level of the day, as the Labour Party and the Center Party agree, this will mean that the Storting will soon be presented with a proposal to bring down the Thrones, unless savings are made as a result. There doesn't seem to be a purpose to play blindfold with facts. Hysnes will otherwise pass as a war station with important tasks. In my view, when it applies to Hysnes in the future, it is far more important to find new activities that can be useful to them, rather than clinging to the past. Otherwise, I just wanted to say, as the case-speaker had to say, that this proposition was very thin. He was quite clear in the border country to be returned. It's not the responsibility of the current Council of State, but I'd like to ask the Council of State to take note of this, and that we get propositions that are more elaborate in the future, and where it doesn't take so much work for us in the Committee to find out the real facts of the situation as in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e308	This proposal deals with the reorganisation of the regional organisation and the training of soldiers in the Maritime Defence. The purpose is to adapt the organisation to today's tasks and framework. Today’s regional organisation, with seven districts, is being closed down, and a new regional organisation, with three maritime defence districts and some changed tasks, is being set up. The centre party agrees with this amendment. Of course, there has been some discussion about where these three districts will be located. The discussion has taken place in both professional and political environments. Our conclusion is that the Maritime Defence District south is added to Marvika by Kristiansand. The reasoning for this can be seen from our joint comment with the Christian People's Party and the Right. In short, it concerns the proximity of cooperation partners in the overall defence, the use of existing infrastructure, the provision of assistance to allied fleet visits by the district staff and the presence of the marine military in southern Norway. At the same time, we point out that the estimated extra cost in relation to the location in Horten must be applied for in a minimal way during the practical establishment. Sea defence district west is added to Haakonsvern, Bergen. There's a full consensus here. At the same time, we take note that the Government says it will come back with a review of the overall military activities in the Bergen area with a view to saving and efficiency measures. Our conclusion on the North Maritime Defence District is the location of Olavsvern, Tromsø. In relation to the option that has been most strongly within the discussion now in the final phase, Ramsund, the infrastructure of Olavsverm, such as office spaces, command spaces, communication, etc., is better organised, so that in our view this is the best location. Oil protection also has one of the districts that are now being closed down. However, Ramsund, with its war station and supply command, will maintain a significant activity and employment related to the Defence. This is important for the community. Teldsund Municipality is one of the most defence-dependent municipalities in this country. The settlement municipality loses its maritime defence district without reintroducing any activity. In the past, the municipality has lost other state jobs. It is therefore very positive that the Government will go into exceptional funding for a three-year period in order to lay the basis for creating new activity in the municipality and region. We support this. The centre party has no tradition of binding the group in localisation cases. It may therefore be that some representatives will vote differently than after the conclusions I have now presented. The government proposes to reduce the capacity of military training to Kystartilleriet by shutting down Hysne's training department in Rissa Municipality. Our assessment is that there is very little defence activity left in this part of Norway, and that it is important to maintain a presence in this part of the country. We have also noticed that the Coastal Artillery Inspector says that a still divided solution between the Hysne Training Department and the Trodden Training Department at Harstad meets all the mandatory requirements. But we have also noticed that the Minister said in a letter to the Committee that if Hysne's practice department is maintained, the Government will have to consider returning to the Stortinget with proposals for other cost reduction measures. We'll take note of this. Our assessment is that Hysne's training department is maintained for military training, and we have a note about this together with the Workers' Party. That means that one gets a shared solution between Hysnes and Trondnes. At Trodenes, there's a simulation hall under construction. Therefore, it may be natural to add the training depending on the simulator to the Trondenes and to maintain close-up training at Hysnes. Hysnes has such training today, and most facilities and facilities are in place. This should therefore be the solution that makes the best use of existing resources.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e329	Localization debates are not simple. It shows this thing well. But unlike the opera batten, we are able today to end this localization debate, even though it is uncertain how many people are, as I understand it. In the SV we have assessed whether a government should not have expected a government in this case as well and had decided what a defence and security concept Norway should have, before we make these changes. And it would probably be better to have the defense concept clear, but our conclusion in this case is that it is not necessary to wait. Let me start with Mid Norway. It's strange that parts of the center part seem to want to put Hysnes down. Holding this practice department has clear regional policy arguments in addition to the more military strategic ones. And so the Coast Guard is not rejecting this solution. It is also an important point that Hysne's practice department has recently renovated most of the building mass. Yes, in fact, teaching buildings, canteens and welfare buildings were last renovated in 1998, i.e. a year ago. It must be allowed to say that there is very poor planning in a few years after spending a lot of money on renovation, says that this does not really mean we need it. So the conclusion is that Hysnes shouldn't be laid down, and that Hysnes should continue to evict local defence personnel to the same extent as today. When it comes to the North Maritime Defence District, this is somewhat more difficult, but based on a health assessment, which also includes district policy considerations, SV goes into the Ramsund Maritime Defence District. In the case of Southern Maritime Defence District, I will not argue for location in my own hometown – Stavanger – but here SV supports a location in Marvika, not least on the basis of the clear and illustrious recommendations of the professional military, not least from the commander of South Norway. This solution exploits existing infrastructure, while Marvika already has most of the calls from the allies. Defence is changing, and there will be many new restructurings and localisation debates. And there will probably be a lot of fights too, as we now see trends when it comes to the Eastern region. Regional affairs and, in part, this case show that we need to have a general debate on what kind of defence we should have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e342	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e345	I also understand from the contribution to Langeland that he has also not understood the difference between a war station and a maritime defence district. I still have to ask Langeland a question. What he is now proposing will inevitably weaken the defence budget, and it also gives a clear regional policy angle. Does SV and Langeland take more into account regional policy than the Defence, and is this an attempt to weaken the defence budget? Or will they later be able to contribute more funds, so that we can increase the defence budget?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e350	SV has a different defence concept than the Progress Party. On repeated occasions in this Chamber, SV has asked for a discussion on what kind of defence concept this country should have for the future. Now, what you get is partial solutions are all the way. It's not a constructive policy, it's supposed to come back to the next case. SV's model means that one should have a defense in the districts as well, and the South for one to have a total defense where one can defend each other in the country. This means that we include district policy in our military strategic thinking. It's not our goal to weaken the Defense. On the contrary, we believe that our defence concept is much better, and much cheaper.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e358	The representative of Langeland weighted in the assessment of Hysnes’ building maintenance. I wonder whether well maintained buildings in the Defence shall be an argument for maintaining further operations. I am satisfied that state property is being protected, and I prefer not to see houses rot on the ground wall, whether it is in defence or in other state activities. My question to Langeland is: Does SV want to promote a new argument to continue today's activities in Defence, namely well maintained buildings?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e365	Let me say the following to Holstad: The point of mentioning this with maintenance was that one put in place a renovation of these buildings and finished it in 1998, and the year after comes the Christian People's Party and others and will weaken Hysnes' position and say that it maintained one last year, actually was worthless. What I'm trying to point out is that defence policy must imply that a person thinks long-term and has a concept that is followed up. I illustrated that the Storting has not done so by a user's large funds on something that goes away from a year later. That was the main point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e372	There was a very real post the representative Langeland made here. Of course, he stands for SV's line, which means a halving of the defence appropriations. At the same time, he claims that SV will not weaken the defense. In particular, it is interesting to note that the SV in any case in an area believes that the litmus test on political activity and activity is not necessarily every penny you grant. In other types of debate, it's like this on SV's side that it's the last crown that counts in relation to whether you're social or heart condition. But the most real thing is that when SV wants to rage the defense by at least halving it and reversing the entire structure of the defense, one is in any context where the defense is going to do a certain restructuring, against this. So it's not just that they want to halve their defenses, but they're also against a defense that should be as effective as possible. At the same time, the new SV would like the Defence Force to participate in activities abroad. With regard to Kosovo, Erik Solheim and Kristin Halvorsen have struggled with the other political landscape to be as active as possible in order to clean up the ethnic cleansing that Milosevic stands for. Doesn't Langeland see that there's a pretty big gap between what he's basing on defence and what's real? Those who, after all, are in favour of defence appropriations, and defence appropriations that also meet the requirements of the position of the Defence Commission, of course, also have the opportunity to go in to maintain the near defence of Middle Norway, but of course it is not possible within a responsible framework when it comes to halving the defence budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e381	Let me first say to the representative Burnde that he is a little poorly informed about SV's defence policy – something that is not surprising. SV is not in favour of halving the defence budget. It's actually wrong. The decision from our national meeting is that one should reduce by 25 pst. during the period. It's not a halve, as far as I know, at least not in my mathematics. So to this that he was busy with when it pertains to the use of funds and the relationship to foreign operations. It's my opinion, and I'm going to come back to it in the next case, that the out-of-area activity that NATO is now doing, which is in violation of international law, has little success. On the contrary, he turns out to be very failed. I think that NATO's new concept will be a danger to the world's security. That's my starting point. I want one to bet on the UN. If the United Nations can use NATO a few times, I'll be open to it. So it's a United Nations government I want, not a NATO government, as you can see in the Balkans, with the tragic consequences. What other partymates of mine may mean, Brande knows well, and I don't see any reason to comment on it from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e388	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e391	Strictly speaking, perhaps this debate could have been even shorter than that proposed by the Defence Committee. There is a consensus on the main steps in this case. We agree on a savings of 220 years' worth and an operating savings after a completed organisational change of about 370 million. DKK over 10 years. That's the big hold. And there is a reason, as the rapporteur also did, to express satisfaction at the fact that the Defence Committee and probably also the Storting are united in this. But there are, of course, policies — and not least district and regional policies — in some of the other issues. Even with the differences in the committee setting, the minimum deviation from the main objective is a saving in the order of magnitude that I mentioned. And the difference for the Workers' Party measured up against the government party's vision is marginal, maybe 10 to 15 million. kr if one goes at the individual elements and analyses them. With the uncertainty factors involved in such figures, especially when starting from a 10-year period, I believe that in so far as none of the batches in this room should have a particularly poor conscience in relation to the deviations in the current position – whether these deviations go one way or the other. When there is such broad consensus, it is of course because the whole Stortinget has imposed itself as a general guideline that we should have the most defence out of each krona, and we must be able to organize the business so that it is essentially achieved. A few words about the Workers' Party's and others' support for the proposal to place the district organisation in the north of Ramsund. It is apparent from the fractional remark that there is an overall assessment that gives that result. In contrast to other alternatives in the north – not Olavsverscherung – Ramsund also has a war station and also has important functions on the supply side. The main counter-argument I have met in the case of Ramsund, which in itself is not so clear from the proposition either, is the fact that Ramsund is not very attractive from the command and personnel in the defence. That's a legitimate argument of course, perhaps as legitimate or as little legitimate as saying that Tromsø is a press area. Anyway, I think we have to find out that the kind of arguments defend their place in such a debate, given that the military and professional councils give the alternatives a somewhat equivalent status as we believe they do. I also believe that even if you are to give strong consideration to the employees' organisations and commanding organisations in such a case, it can of course be thought that from a general point of view, both military and others, you will arrive at a position that is not always the best human resources policy. The defence is full of it through the ordering system that it provides and that can produce completely different results in terms of geographical location and embarrassment from what each individual wants from a personal need and a personal point of view. In this sense, we must be prepared to enter into the debate on Ramsund in the north. Some of us have been there, quite a lot, and I think in many ways it's a more attractive place with the offerings that exist locally, than many are initially aware of. But of course, this is often the case when an analyst is based on the interests of urban people, whether they are from Oslo, Tromsø, Bergen or elsewhere. Finally, I would like to take up the proposal from the Workers' Party, which is on page 5 of the vote, and which is on the establishment of the Maritime Defence District North from 1 January 2001 with location in Ramsund.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e402	Bjørn Tore Godal has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e405	The presentation of St.prp. No 33 for 1998-99 on certain organisational changes etc. in Defence represents the end of a relatively long investigation process started by the Maritime Defence in June 1996. Although the process has taken time, the matter is most topical and necessary. Through St. Meld. No 22 for 1997-98, the Government signalled the need to continue the adaptation of defence so as to establish a balance between the support functions represented by the maritime defence districts and operational units. Maritime defence districts’ support tasks have been reduced as a result of a reduction in the number of marine vessels, recovered vessels and coastal artillery departments. The seven maritime defence districts of the day are proposed for closure. At the same time, the Government promotes proposals for a smaller regional organisation adapted to future tasks and structure with three new maritime defence districts and six new war stations. The Defence Committee points out in its comments that it must be an objective to reduce the time spent in the investigation of future conversion processes in defence, given that the current process has taken some time. I agree with that. The process must take time for many reasons, also because of the labour market's demands for participation and participation in the development of own employment. I can inform you that the Ministry last summer, together with the Defence Overcommand and Employees' Organisations, started a major effort to clarify possible simplifications of the process. The conclusion of this work will reduce the investigation and implementation time for future organisational changes. Following an overall assessment with emphasis on regional cooperation and military presence, the Government has proposed the new Maritime Defence District located south of Marvika near Kristiansand. I note that the majority of the committee proposes Horten as a location for the new Maritime Defence District south. I am pleased that the majority of the committee has joined the Government's proposal to add maritime defence districts to Haakonsvern and Olavsvern and to shut down Hysne's practice department. As I said, the government is proposing to add the Maritime Defence District north to Olavsvern at Tromsø. The tasks of the Maritime Defence District will be directed towards the tasks of the Maritime Defence and Defence Department in the sea areas of the north and on the coasts of North Troms and Finnmark. This is best achieved by localising the Olavsværk district. An alternative location to Ramsund will give the district a rather withdrawn location in relation to what the district should focus on. It is thus a less satisfactory solution to add the district to Ramsund. There is also broad professional-military agreement to add the district to Tromsø. I also find it appropriate to comment on the comment of the Committee's minority to continue today's educational activities at Hysne's practice department. The members of the minority shall be required to train immediate defence personnel of the same size as at the Hysne Training Department. The defense does not need this personnel. If the Storting chooses to follow the minority in this case, the result will be overproduction in the Kystartillery by the personnel that are not required. In a situation where the defence must reduce operating costs, it is not appropriate to continue the Hysne practice department.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e420	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e423	I am pleased that the Council of State is now telling us that she has taken the initiative to get the defence processes to go a little faster in the future. I'm looking forward to that. In this case, we have heard that this process of conversion is really just a start on several or at least one possible reorganization. It is mentioned that, in the future, two bases, or one whole district, may be thought of for the whole of Norway. I believe that the marine defense needs peace. I hope that the statements that have come to our ears are not correct, and that they will now be able to make the change correctly and do the job in the future under the structure that we are adopting here today. But I would like to ask the Council of State if she will help to ensure that the Maritime Defense Office is calm and that you do not start a new conversion process with one more time, with a view to a different result.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e432	First, a little comment for conversion processes. I've learned from my own experience that transitions, when needed, need to be made quickly, both in order to provide security for those affected, and also in order to reach the goal as quickly as possible to get the potential out. I have that with me as an experience when I go on with the transitions in general and in defence in particular. It is possible that there will be more changes. If we can get a little bit out by the little steps, we have to take some big steps. But it also says in the proposition which areas within the Maritime Defence are not affected by the reorganisation in this round. I can't promise that we won't deal with this, even if this matter is being dealt with here now. But the comment made by a previous speaker here today that decisions in the Stortinget will be implemented, I am of course very serious, so it has nothing to do with the implementation of decisions. But I can't promise that there won't be any further changes in the areas we haven't affected in this proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e440	\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t I would like to continue where the Council of State left off: what happens next? It is true, as the Council pointed out, that in paragraph 1 of the proposition, before the summary, some of the things that are moving are mentioned; the setting gives less instruction on what is mentioned in that part of the proposition. It states that payments will in the long term have an impact on the development of the regional maritime defence organisation. This applies for the first time to the distribution of administrations which may be included in this picture, and obviously also to other activities linked, among others. to Haakonsververn warsstation. That's how I experience it. This document is as far as I can see, some kind of intermediate station because the department did not venture or would not or was not finished – what I know – to go further with the organisation in the Maritime Defence. Then, of course, the question arises as to what time horizon the Council of State now sees itself in terms of a further reorganisation in the Maritime Defence, based on the department itself written in the bill. What are we going to see now? Is it STYFOR who wants to control this, or is it such that the Council of State is now in the mood to accelerate developments on the organisational side in order to make further savings on the operational side? The timetable and timetable set by the Council of State — not least in the light of what the Committee on Defence said about progress in development — should be done quickly and smoothly, so as not to be hit by any vigilance in terms of the restructuring of the organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e449	There are a lot of processes going on in Defense these days – processes that have as their main objective the development of a future structure of Defence that is what we feel is served by politically. This will be reflected in the next long-term report, which will be presented to the European Parliament in spring 2001. But these processes go parallel, for example: STYFOR, as Røssjord mentioned, plus the remaining things mentioned in the Proposition regarding the Maritime Defense, and also other conversions to get out a profit on operations that we can use for investments, is something the Storting has ordered us to do, and which we obviously have to do at the same time that we are investigating a completely new structure. Then it's about doing to try to have the processes next to each other without doing the wrong things. But we can't wait to do everything we can for the long-term message, because then we can't achieve the economic goals that the Stortinget has imposed on the defense. The progress here will also depend on the potential for saving we get out of the decisions we make, among other things. in connection with this proposition that we are dealing with today. I have noticed what the Storting has said about the content and shape of this proposition and how to want a future decision-making basis. I will come back to Stortinget when I feel that I have something that can help to make the defence more effective in the direction that we will also have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e454	Of course, in a living society, things will always change and people will have to be mindful that things can change. During the Cold War there was probably very little of this in Defense. Now we've come close to saying on the opposite side of the road, with a huge amount of uncertainty. There is so much uncertainty today that I believe it is to the detriment of, among other things. the staff, who see that the future is so insecure that they look to a great extent for other things to do. Therefore, it is important to help at least reduce uncertainty as much as possible. Now it seems that there may be multiple numbers here in Stortinget today to continue the production of soldiers for whom there is no need. Of course, there's something you can't live with in the long run, and so the uncertainty associated with this will continue. I might like to ask the Council of State: if such a decision were to be taken, when could we expect the Council of State to come up with initiatives that could put an end to it? So to the second question. Of course, if the Council of State agreed to its proposal to close Hysne's practice department, it is of great interest to be able to have a new activity with Hysnes, which can be added to it in the future. If so, will the Council of State take initiatives in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e463	First of all, safety/insecurity. It is clear that change leads to insecurity, and for some people it leads to more insecurity than for others. Therefore, it is important that these processes go in such a direction that people affected by them see that even in an unsafe situation, they can feel some security about where it ends. What I think is a very important element to bring with it at the bottom of change processes. If Hysnes is maintained, as I said in my post, it will become an overcapacity – a trainer more than we need. I have said in a letter to the Committee that it will have to mean that we have to move somewhere else, because we cannot afford – and do not need – overcapacity in this area. I'll come back to Stortinget with that, if there's the outcome here, as soon as it's possible and in a context where it belongs. In the case of new activity to Hysnes, something has been suggested by the Government. It is not much, but a plan element has been proposed, and it is also intended to use regional policy instruments in cooperation with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. But otherwise I'll say, this cross of thought, to change without anyone being touched, we have to get away from it. Some will be affected by changes. And I would like to say to the rapporteurs who are dependent on the Defence and only the Defence in the future, that they should be briefed as soon as possible on a more complex business life, because I am not going to be able to stand on this pulpit and promise all the rapporteurs in this country who depend on the Defence, that it will provide security for the future nutritional basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e474	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e477	We are discussing today the reorganisation of the Maritime Defence. I believe that the word reorganization causes many rapporteurs and communities around Norway to freeze their backs. Every time we're going to reorganize and streamline, there's a lot of emotion out there among us politicians here and elsewhere. There are some tough processes we're facing right now. My challenge to some municipalities that are totally dependent on the Defence is to work actively to get other legs to stand on. This government works very actively for a district bet. It's going to keep going. The situation we have many places now, however, is unfortunate both for the defence and for the community around. The defence may not be a place solely for the maintenance of a community. It's not good for the Defense, and it's hard to be a community. Every time it is to be reorganised and every long-term message, it is necessary to check whether the basis of existence is still there. When this is said, I want to clarify one thing. I do not deprive politicians of the right to take full account of some things. We have a responsibility to maintain our defence will in our country. That is why this is not a blank mandate on the part of the Christian People's Party to the professional militaries that only military strategic considerations should be taken into consideration. We have to think of community unity. But our argument should never be that there is a basis for the existence of a community, without professional and general societal considerations, to decide in defence matters. Nor should the argumentation be economic arguments alone without a professional-military anchoring. We do not waive responsibility for these communities. The existence of local communities will be actively supported by the Christian People's Party over other budgets. The maritime defence districts of the south do not have a background in the existence of local communities. I don't think Horten or Kristiansand needs these positions to survive. But in this case, the government has taken the overall considerations that I previously talked about, but with a good anchor in the operational manager's recommendation. I can refer here to the commander-in-chief in South Norway's position in writing of 18 August 1997 to the FO, where the proximity of the total defence is emphasised, and on that basis the FKS recommends that the Maritime Defence District South be added to Marvika. Allied and other international ship visits have also been central to the Government. Air Chief Marshal Sir John Cheshire stated during his visit that Norway with Marvika as the base for PFP exercises in the North Sea was in the middle of the blink. Marvika had 97 vessels in 1998, while Karljohans protection had 24 in 1998. Here's what kind of signal we're giving our ally friends. Should they be received by a storage function, or should we as a nation give a different status to the reception base? For Norway, allied exercises on Norwegian soil are important. We're attractive as host nation for PFP exercises. The location of Marvika is excellent in that way. Sailing in the heart of the Oslo Earth between all the leisure boats means that the ships lose both time and increase fuel consumption when they are going to practice in the Skagerrak. I want to clarify to a previous speaker that although the primary task of a maritime defence district is not to clear vessels, the Christian People's Party has been concerned that it has been a bit of the totality to give the signal effect to our allies. We have focused on other arguments: trade-military arguments, which I have explained that the costs should be minimised – and I refer to the Aplan Viaks opinion – taking into account the total defence of the DKSV as a partner, and with that infrastructure. In this case, I am disappointed with Vidar Kleppes and the Progress Party – with Røsjorde at the head – winged the performance. It is the party that has gone high in this matter and has always stated that we can trust the Progress Party, and that Marvika is the best option. Now we can all read in the setting if we should trust them. I understand that any politician can fail in his group treatment, but then you should not promise anything on behalf of the whole group.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e494	Reorganisation of maritime defence must aim at making maritime defence more efficient and exploiting resources better. We are in order to reorganize and reduce the number of maritime defence districts, and as a representative of the Trondelag, I accept that the Trondelag Maritime Defence District is being closed down. But that the government is proposing to shut down Hysne's practice department is incomprehensible, not least from a security policy point of view. Central Norway is defined as a crucial area for defending Norway, and Trondelag has large American pre-storers, and the presence of the Marine Defense in Central Norway at the Hysne Training Department is necessary to ensure and exercise watchkeeping of these reinforcement camps. In addition, there is reason to stress that the main task of the Hysne Training Department is to ensure Kråkvåg Fort, the installation in Namsen, the Maritime Defence Station on Rinnläret, the Marine Defence Store in Steinvika and the facilities and areas around Hysnes and Brettingen. In a tense situation, Hysne's practice department is the only military forces that can take such a task in central Norway before any mobilization becomes relevant. These conditions are also strongly highlighted in the opinions of the Total Defence Commissioner, Trøndelag. They point to the importance of central Norway for the defence of Norway, and are concerned about the deterioration of the defence in central Norway. The overall defence denominator also points to the importance of Norway fulfilling its part of the pre-storage agreement in Trøndelag. The strategic importance of the presence of the Maritime Defence Agency in Central Norway is the main reason why the Workers' Party is going in to maintain the Hysne Training Department. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Right, claim in the vote that if Hysne's practice department is maintained, there will be trained personnel there is no need in the Kystartillery. This is in stark contrast to the COMMUNICATION V/contreadmiral Pause, who is the head of the war configuration for South Norway, says in a letter dated 3 March 1999: ‘Should it lead to correctness that there is no need for close defence training at Hysnes, the war lists’ – the mobilization lists – ‘should be filled up. Reports show that this is not the case.» It is claimed that the savings potential for the reorganisation is reduced by maintaining the Hysne Training Department. In order to ensure the quality of the investigation work that forms the basis of the deposit proposal, the company Aplan Viak has been engaged. In their report they say that several relationships should have been illuminated before a decision was made. With the given assumptions, the difference between Hysnes and Trodennes is so small that small operating and maintenance differences could distort the result. In the opinion of Aplan Viaks, therefore, there is insufficient material to reach a decision on the economic basis. Hysnes meets the requirements for the timely training of local defence personnel for the rapid, bases and stations of the Maritime Defence. The defense here has between 2000 and 3000 targets of its own for exercises, all of which are within walking distance of the explanations. All the shooting paths are also at walking distance, and almost all the constructions have been restored at the end of the 1980s and 1990s. If the majority's proposal is adopted today, we will have an approximation of the Marine Defense's activities in Trøndelag. But the closure of Hysnes will also have a serious regional policy impact. A whole community will be hit hard. In the village of Hasselvika, almost half of the population will be forced to move. When so much leaves the village, both schools, kindergartens, post offices and other service functions are threatened with closure. The closure of 70-90 jobs in a district municipality like Rissa is dramatic. If we make a similar comparison for a big city like Trondheim, that equals 2,500 jobs. I'm glad that the Center Party is serious about its district policy commitment and is opposed to the recommendation of its own government. Together with the Workers' Party and the SV, the Centre Party may prevent the closure of an entire community on the Trøndelagskysten.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e523	However, with the danger of being accused of lack of objectivity in the issue of the location of the Maritime Defence District south, I will boldly claim that the Maritime Defence District south should be added to Marvika in Kristiansand. I agree with the ministry, which has stressed that cooperation with the regional plan team in the Army is better taken care of there than if the location is in Horten. The total defence activities of the District Staff may be carried out in Kristiansand. The maritime military cooperation with our allies through many military visits to Kristiansand is also important. I note that the Workers' Party's fraction and the Progress Party's fraction in the Committee have focused on the assessments of the former head of defence and will support a location for Horten. It must be allowed to wonder what the current head of defence thinks about this. The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right have pointed out in the vote that the reasons for some of the proposals are very scarce and provide a weaker basis for decision than is desirable. I therefore allow myself to point out that the Committee majority, the Labour Party and the Advance Party, can hardly be said to have been particularly complementary in their comments and reasons for the location of the Horten. What these parties have stressed is that a location to Marvika in Kristiansand will cost $29 million. kr more than 10 years more than a location at Karljohansverm in Horten. Let me show that the math in the defense I have asked from this pulpit questions about earlier, and this time I am not particularly convinced that the calculations are consistent. First, the former Chief of Defense made financial calculations, so the Ministry asked for supplementary calculations, carried out by the Maritime Defence Administration School, and finally engaged the department of Aplan Viak AS to perform quality assurance of the administrative school's calculations. Let me quote a few lines from this report: ‘We would therefore recommend that the current value calculations carried out should not be given particular weight in terms of the local location of maritime defence districts.’;» And on the other hand, «... it would be unwise to focus too much on the current economic value calculation in isolation.» I regret that this is precisely what the Labour Party and the Advance Party have done in this matter. In an exchange of lines, the Workers' Party's rapporteur stressed the importance of good professional military solutions in this matter. Then it is important for me to stress the strong arguments of operational managers in the Maritime Defense Department for a location in Marvika. With these words, I will join the minority’s proposal – from the Christian People’s Party, the Right Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e555	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e558	Inner. S. No 203 on certain organisational changes etc. the defence concerns the regional organisations in the maritime defence sector. Setting this option will not allow any winner to be selected. No one has got what they want, neither the defense, the ministry, the regions, nor the political parties. Now some important conversion measures have been achieved that will bring economic benefits. The number of maritime defence districts will be reduced from seven to three, and the number of annual work in the new organisation will be reduced by about two percentage points. 200 years' worth of work. The vote later this evening will show the level of economic gains, but the starting point at POSEIDON is unlikely to be met. It is true in localisation cases that representatives will often focus on the arguments appropriate for their own part of the country. With regard to the location of the Southern Maritime Defence District, there are clear arguments from my point of view that the Maritime Defence District should be added to Kristiansand. It is in Skagerrak and in the North Sea that the activity is great. It's to Kristiansand NATO laying their visit to ships and submarines. There is no other maritime defence district that has so many visits, and almost all statements by operational military personnel recommend Kristiansand. Cooperation with the Total Defense is important, and in Kristiansand, as is well-known, District Commands South and West, DKSV, the District Police Commissioner, etc. I would therefore recommend that the Southern Maritime Defence District be added to Marvika in Kristiansand. Finally, I would like to highlight – and ask the Council of State to note – the unanimous comment of the Committee that Marvika Orlogsstation is being ensured a sufficient number of annual works, so that the station can perform its tasks satisfactorily.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e572	I was going to start by saying something about what we were talking about in connection with the line change with the Council of State. I'm going to leave that part, but maybe give some space to something that I thought was an interesting angle in the representative Gjul's posts, like formal cheese of defense-friendliness, and then turn into luntertrav against district policy. I guess I didn't expect anything else either. What was interesting was that a representative who, as far as I remember, was strongly opposed to a region field to practice departments of the Army in the East used as an argument that up there was the shooting range at walking distance. There's a compelling parallelism in the case of the Rena and the Cavalry. But it's quick to forget! Let's hope that the defence exposure of the representative Gjul gets stronger, more intense and more consistent in the time that comes. So a little bit back to the proposition. It's true, as many people have said, that overproduction is at least not something you do in a company. Right there I have major problems in understanding the Workers' Party, which, as far as Hysnes is concerned, will obviously continue a production that, according to professional military advice, is not needed. In that case, it will not be difficult to understand the fact that it is a matter of district policy. They've tried to angle it a little bit into pre-storage and the significance of having a military department nearby, and that's in itself a good argument, but it seems that there's more to cover than a reality in this. That's a choice soon. In the case of Marvika War Station, an overall committee considers that it is important to ensure that Marvika War Station has a sufficient number of annual works, so that the War Station can satisfactorily discharge its duties in connection with allied visits, etc. And it's from the committee a clear demonstration of something that obviously makes Kristiansand a special place for the Maritime Defense, precisely because Kristiansand, like Stavanger and Haakonsvern, is easily available to allied vessels that practice, whether it's in purely NATO context or Partnership for Peace Exercises. It is therefore important that the Department carefully assess the manning within the resources now available, so that the needs of the war station are met to serve the allied forces that we have seen and that we know will practice in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e586	The size requires defence to improve efficiency, reduce costs and improve the quality of strength production. In return, the defence should be able to expect that the Stortinget allows for consistency between objectives and instruments, whether we are talking about operational means and investments or about structures. For the Right, defence policy arguments and priorities are at the top of regional policy. If the Storting selects cost-intensive solutions based on regional non-defence priorities, resources are deducted from the overall defence budgets and an already excessive imbalance between objectives and instruments. That's what the Workers' Party does when they cut both in the defence budget and choose Ramsund over Olavsvermn. There will be no better defence of that kind of policy. The Ministry of Defence proposes that the Olavs protection should be used for the North Maritime Defence District, and the Workers' Party chooses the worst and most expensive solution by proposing Ramsund, as proposed by the representative Bjørn Tore Godal. For the Right, we place the decisive emphasis on professional and economic assessments, and Olavsverm is the best choice, there is no doubt about it, and no one has led defence policy arguments in favour of Ramsund. Right goes in to choose the Olavs Protection also because here we already have infrastructure related to the Olavs Protection Warstation and Operational Units in the Marine. In such a solution, the savings for the Defence Agency are 80 years' work, and approx. 144 million. kr over a ten-year period, and by saying no to Olavsvärn these 144 million must be taken from other narrow defence budgets. When case rapporteur Rui of the Workers' Party makes the choice between Ramsund and Olavsværn a question of 15 posts in the district or in Tromsø, the Workers' Party totally disregards the defence policy arguments. The defense itself says that both Ramsund and Lødningen are not satisfactory according to their needs, and then it is no good that the Workers' Party gets under something they call an overall assessment – no matter what it may mean. More should have done as Right, given the essential importance of defence needs and ability to produce strength. At my discretion, the Workers' Party's proposal for Ramsund is further illustrated as being relatively sought when the Defense itself says that Harstad has been considered as the second best option after Olavsvermner. In this way it may be wondered that the Workers' Party argues against Olavsvermner and for Ramsund that in Tromsø it is a precedent. At the same time, if you make this a district policy issue, you have made it clear that you have left a line that focuses on defence policy arguments. Let me also say that I think it becomes a little strange when the same working party together with the Center Party is now proposing to continue Hysnes. The savings potential by putting down Hysnes and continuing the Trondenes is significant, and if Hysnes is now adopted, I perceive that there must be a threat to the Trodennes in the future. In two specific cases, the Labour Party has chosen district policy and cost-effective solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e601	There is a great need for change and a great willingness to change in defence, and this is absolutely necessary to achieve the overall objective of maintaining our defence capabilities and preferably improving it within a limited economic framework. Among the assessments that need to be made in such a conversion is keeping the public’s willingness to defend. In an assessment of the total defence, I do not think there is any doubt that that goodwill cannot be overestimated. Where I come from, Fosen, I notice that the goodwill locally just grows. Despite a lot of aircraft noise and shooting and land use on land and on the sea that seem to limit people's goodwill growing. It is linked to stable and good jobs in which the defence is located, as well as to the fact that the defence has gradually shown a greater willingness to cooperate. We have experienced in our area the unique experience that local initiative has been taken to establish a firing range for aircraft. In other places in the country there are protests against such things. In Rissa, where Hysne's practice department is located, the municipality and its inhabitants have arranged everything for the defense. The defence activity has been integrated into the activities of the community and the community. It's also the way the kids in kindergarten care about what's going on right now. In my opinion, the defense cannot afford to shut down Hysnes, among other things. from this point of view, with goodwill to the Defence, but also for defence reasons. General Defence Trondelag has, among other things, pronounced: ‘TNT will therefore strongly withdraw from a model which would entail a further deterioration in the position of defence in the national part of the country.’ As mentioned earlier, they have had to take into account the pre-storage and the coastal fort on Kråkvåg, where the security of the facility both in peacetime and in a crisis situation is crucial. And many would say that if Hysnes is shut down, the investment in Krökvåg's coastal fortress will be wasted. It's not a problem for the defense to keep Hysnes. The big community can't afford to put Hysnes down. There is a significant impairment of an exposed area if it occurs. In my view, the size must emphasise the value of local communities and the workplaces that carry these communities. The Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research has calculated a total loss of 70-90 jobs as a result of the possible closure of Hysnes. Aplan Viak has pointed out that the financial savings indicated are not sufficient. There is no basis for drawing conclusions on an economic basis, they say in a report commissioned by the Ministry of Defence. Transport to the exercise area is, among other things, not taken into account in those calculations. The activity of the Hysne Training Department will be adaptable to the future. They won't insist on doing exactly what they're doing today, but to participate in a further transformation, they need security.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e617	Several of the representatives have pointed out that the conversion is difficult, and I will sign it on. Let's go back a few years and see what the Stortinge took during the treatment of the long-term notification of the defence 1994-98, where an average reduction of the long-term employees was to be made in the order of 25 pst. This was also the upper command of the defense in Huseby. I believe that the Council of State can obtain interesting information by looking at the extent to which you have worked in this area to meet the requirements of the Grand Council on downboarding. At least it's not minus 25 pst., probably the truth is closer to plus 25 pst. So the Council of State said that rapporteurs have to think more towards a varied business life. It is my experience with the conversion of the land defence in the Army that the small and medium-sized municipalities in District Norway are very concerned about thinking positively about the transition and varying business life. In this context, I would say that the noise from Lødingen, which is strongly affected by the conversion in the Maritime Defense, is significantly less than the noise was from Bergen, when we moved a general from Bergen to Kristiansand on the establishment of the District Command South and Westland. So it's not in the small and medium-sized municipalities that you've had problems hearing about the need for conversion in the defence, it's probably more the areas of the country with a high number of people who don't see the great need for conversion. Then to the Maritime Defence District north, with recommendations related to Tromsø. The reason for choosing Tromsø may be relevant in many ways, but in other areas there is a strange reason. In the proposition, one of the reasons for localisation to Tromsø is the proximity of civil and military authorities. So where are the military and civil authorities in North Norway? Yes, Defence Command North Norway is in Bodø! Those with coordinated civil protection responsibility for the whole of North Norway – the county of Nordland – are located in Bodø. It is incomprehensible that the argument for localization to Tromsø as well as being close to civil and military authority, when the distance from Tromsø to Bodø is apparently longer than, for example, the distance from Ramsund to Bodø. Then the representative was Width, I think, inside of what's the difference between the maritime defence district and the war station. What we are talking about is a planning element in the Defence Peace Organisation, where the operational considerations as such are so-called subordinate. The Council of State justified the location of Tromsø with interests in North Troms and Finnmark, but it is thus that the North Maritime Defence District is responsible for the border in Trøndelag/Northland to the border with Russia. Then it's a little bit small just to focus on Nord-Troms and Finnmark. So I'm very happy that the Workers' Party and SV collected go in for the location of the Maritime Defence District north of Ramsund.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e630	One of the most controversial proposals in St.prp. No 33 is natural enough that you want to put down Hysne's practice department. If this were to be adopted, it means not only a direct reduction in the education capacity of the Maritime Defence Agency, but also the removal of an important base for the near defence of Middle Norway, which is defined by the Defence Manager as a geographical area of crucial importance for the defence of Norway in crisis and war. Contemporaries are simultaneously the location, as others have also mentioned, of large allied reinforcement stocks, and it is important to stress the importance of maritime defence in terms of securing and vigilance of these stocks. We should be aware that Hysnes' crews have annual exercises for the purpose of ensuring this important security function. If Hysnes is laid down, that means that other bodies have to assume this responsibility. It is, as far as I have registered, not suggested other solutions, and then the police are the adjacent agency to assign this task. But it goes without saying that the police can't take over this without significant reinforcements. The Hysnes training unit has been continuously upgraded and maintained and today consists of a time-consuming facility with building mass, shooting paths and sports facilities. There have been so many doubts about the extent of the real investment needs of Hysnes. Aplan Viak AS, who has been committed to going through this, has concluded that the material underlying the investigation is not good enough to make a decision on an economic basis. It surprises me in this context that the economic aspects seem to be the dominant ones in the case. The fact that the closure of Hysnes will affect 70-90 jobs in vulnerable rural areas should also be included in the assessment. I have also registered the Kystartillery Inspector's statement that a still divided solution between Hysne's practice department and the Trodden's practice department meets all the mandatory requirements. I have come to the conclusion that I cannot share the view of my own party group regarding the Hysnes case and will therefore oppose a closure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e641	What one sees in all such matters as the one we are dealing with now, about organisational changes in Defence, is that everyone agrees that something needs to be done because one needs to make the best use of resources and coordinate the work to be done. But when it comes to locating the whole thing, we see that representatives of all political parties suddenly become dissenting if the matter involves and affects their own municipality of origin. That's probably the case often, one has a closer relationship with the place you live and where one travels in the daily. With regard to this position of the Defence Committee, about reorganisations in the defence, I believe it has taken too long. In 1996, this work started, with the aim of saving 350 million. SEK – 220 annual work! However, when one looks at everything that is being squandered during the time when work is going on – when politicians get into it – one understands that overall objectives and district policies have become an important part of defence policy in Norway. It could be a similar or a dissimilar. On the part of the Progress Party, we have always stressed in defence debates the importance of the need for the defence to have a financial framework that will enable us to carry out the tasks we have assigned to each other. So to the realities – and the follow-up to the Government’s proposals – in the position that exists. I take it as a matter of course that what a unanimous committee has said in its comments, is being followed up, among other things. in the case of Marvika, and the follow-up and emphasis of our allies and the service they should have. Otherwise, I must say that I agree with my colleague, Mr President. Width, who said that with regard to this matter, organisational changes in the defence, we must not experience that we are getting training decisions and new investigations. What is being adopted here today must be followed up, because we are totally dependent on having the best possible defence, which can be exploited to give the people the defence of the country they claim. When you look at the setting together, I think there are some symbol policies in the area of localization. But after all, I think the defense will come down on its legs if one continues to follow up on what is in these decisions here. Finally, I have to say that I also react in the way that one here puts matters forward. I also respond to some of the comments and documentation that have been made regarding some of these locations. And with regard to the Southern Maritime Defence District, it's probably not so strange that it's added to Horten, when you look at the history that the city has with different defence ministers living in the city, and when you also look at the follow-up and the cozy meetings they've had in the Horten Defence Association with great cod dinners and other things.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e654	I noticed that the representative Aud Blattmann was concerned about his objectivity in the matter. I assume that, with the impact field from Mjösa and Glomma, I do not need to have a similar concern about the location of the maritime defence districts. But I'm willing as a compromise to offer a location in Hamar. I would like to refer to a committee comment from the majority, the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Right, where we point out that the reasons for the proposition for some of the proposals are very scarce and ‘provides a weaker decision-making basis than is desirable’. I think there's a reason to notice that. This is something we've pointed out, at least from the Right side, repeatedly. I think that the only natural conclusion of the majority's remark would have been that they had sent the entire proposition back to the Government, so that a better basis could be found for a decision. This matter of the location of the Maritime Defence District South has had a long history, from the previous Defence Committee. I especially want to hang myself a little bit in the reverse operation that the Progress Party has done in relation to the placement in Kristiansand. The chairperson of the Defence Committee has repeatedly had a high level of cigarry in relation to the position in Kristiansand. I just have to say that the representatives of the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, linked to Westfold, have won this case. When I so strongly insist that the Maritime Defence District south should have been added to Marvika, it is not least for the sake of, and perhaps the main reason for, an inland farmer – a military presence along the whole coast from the Swedish border to – Haugesund. I think that's too much emphasis. It was an argument that we also used consistently in the treatment of Home Affairs, where the military presence in important areas was used to justify the position we took. It is not just the representative of Aud Blattmann who may have problems with objectivity. Obviously, there are also more. Then it's reassuring to be able to stand here and know that there can hardly be any doubt about my objectivity in relation to the location.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e667	I'm just going to say a few words in my little post in relation to what goes on at the location of the Maritime Defence District South – Horten versus Marvika. It is clear that when one is going to make such changes in the defence, it is always difficult. Any change is difficult. That shows that we're all conservative. But there are some things in this case that disappoint me more than other relationships. And one is the way the Defense itself, its management, has handled this -- the argumentation, both what is written and what is between the lines. Now I'm not going to get into the cod dinners and other things that have been suggested, but if everything we've heard in the corridors and around the tables had been carried out from this pulpit, it would have become a very special view. From one who has the lowest possible commanding training it is possible to take in this country, but who nevertheless proudly blindly – until he came to the Stortinget – on what came from them with most stars and widest gold bands, it must be said that there is nothing left of the illusions. I really must be allowed to say that. And when leading defence politicians unequivocally argue for a 3 million more savings. kr per. years for one option rather than the other one, you can wonder if tenders will be next. The economic calculations, which to the dullest, are underlined that we must include a pinch of salt – even if that is not the formulation used in the defence, that is what it says – are the ones that are nevertheless presented as the decisive argument. We've seen these operations before. We saw them when it was about the War School at Gimlemoen and Linderud. It just went a few weeks before you came back and had to have tens, not to say hundreds of millions, and you had to put the one problem all the way to the other. When I see what today's defense chief, and he's after all Norway's top operational leader in war, wrote while he was the commander of South Norway, that such things can be denied, I have to say that it's more than strange. The other thing that amazes me in this matter is just the committee leader of the defense committee and his cigaretteing to which Hernæs referred. It is completely incomprehensible to me that the Group of the Party of Advancement should then humiliate its leader in the Committee, who has great integrity, who has great credibility in this area, and who is heard by both civil and defence, by advance party politicians and others. I cannot, with my best will, understand that when we are going to discuss these matters in the future, it is the postal address that is becoming crucial, and the partner of the chair of the Defence Committee who is really going to have the decisive word.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e680	It was certainly high time I got the word after the last ‘anointed ones’. Let me immediately state the following with regard to the comments that have been made regarding the management of Marvika in particular: For my part, I have always said that I think Marvika made a good application when the match about this started. There is no reason to hide that there have been discussions in our big group about the choices. We in the group have focused on the economics, and when you've tried to get answers from the department to substantiate numbers and try to see if other calculations can also defend Marvika, it hasn't been as easy. Then it's okay to have a little fun with the Progress Party. It's okay, we can take it. I just get to admit that I have suffered a defeat, and I'll think, when I look at some representatives around the hall, that it's not the first time anyone's been in this. I should have had fun looking at the voting outcome in some things that seem clear in the committee. Then I think we'd see that there are enough people who should have had the courage to admit that they've got a ‘driving’ of the group. All right, I'll take that. But then we've also done what we can to make sure that the war station gets the best possible crew. That was what was politically possible. So it's up to the hall to sort this out. So to this with objectivity, which is mentioned. The objectivity specialist Hernæs is, of course, interesting to learn about this. In the case of high cigars, it is very difficult to see many competitors to the representative hereafter, without me going to go into details about who would have won the match. So to the representative Ola T. Lånke: if I heard correctly, there would have been a need to clarify a manifest misunderstanding, because it is not that if the education at the Hiesnes District was to be laid down, the police would have to get the jobs done. What in the world is this now? There are mobilization departments around that have these tasks. There's a shelter. If the representative Lånke is not better informed about how close defence of Trondheimsfjorden and the area of pre-installations is ensured, then he needs a course at the Defence College – at least.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e696	When we come to the vote on this matter tonight, I hope there are some representatives who have thought seriously. When the defence has to make certain organisational changes, there are many considerations to consider. The following factors have been emphasised with regard to the choice of location for the new maritime defence districts: military professional relations, including the operational and geographical priorities of the Defence Manager, tasks in the overall defence of the region and the exploitation of existing infrastructure and, of course, economic benefits. In other words, there are military and necessarily economic reasons that lie behind it when it is proposed that the Maritime Defence District North be added to Olavsværn at Tromsø. The evaluation carried out by the professional-military team has stressed that the existing infrastructure is exploited by a co-location with Olavsverkurwarssstation and that it will also have a closeness to the operational units in the Marinen operating from Olavsverkurktor, as well as that transport and communication are also well developed in this district. The economic gain is intended to provide a saving of approximately. 80 years and approx. 144 million. kr over a 10-year period. Adding the Maritime Defence District north to Olavsverm also has many other advantages, and I am thinking in particular of the proximity to the town of Tromsø and the civil opportunities offered to those who are going to work at the Olavsverm, and also the family they carry with them, possibly establishing when they get there. Of the professional soldiers, Harstad is considered the best option after Tromsø, but Harstad provides less reduction in savings and also less economic savings than Tromsø. Of the same professional militants, Ramsund is considered less satisfactory. Ramsund lacks infrastructure in relation to both Tromsø and Harstad and is also lacking in proximity to military and civil partners. I have to say that it is with amazement that I see the Workers' Party going in to add the Maritime Defence District north to Ramsund. Here, the Workers' Party manages to combine defence policy and district policy, with the result that Ramsund is supported rather than Olavsvermn. The rationale for supporting Ramsund is district policy: Grisgrendet struts are to be allocated to public jobs, even though it is far more favourable to use Olavsverscherung both professionally and economically. I am quite concerned when defence policy becomes a form of district policy, and when the Workers' Party is clearly opposed to the economic and military reasons it is for choosing Olavs protection. Finally, when the Workers' Party is about to conduct district policy almost under the motto ‘cost what it will’, I hope the price will not be too high for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e713	Yes, it's touching to hear Righteous Care for the Advancement Party's inner life and not least for the committee leader's life. I can only assure Right – and I think they know that too – that the committee leader's strength is present to the highest degree, and I think they will notice that in the future, no problem with it. But I think some arguments that the Right uses in relation to where you're going to place the Marine Defense Districts are strange, especially the constellation Horten-Marvika. They disregard the judgment and recommendation of the full Chief of Defence and the Inspector-General, and refer to the commander-in-command of South Norway, who has now rightly become the Chief of Defence and who has had a number of opinions on this subject. It is, of course, included in the investigation by the Department and the Government. They have taken it into consideration, taken it in and evaluated it and found that it was not good enough. The judgements of the Chief of Defence and the Inspector-General were weighted in weight. They also use arguments put forward by a consultant company. Do they think it's going to oversee the head of defense and the government's assessment? I have to say it surprises me. If it's going to be the Right for the future uses as a basis for assessing issues, i.e. I must say I'm very surprised. I also find it immeasurable that Gabrielsen to the degrees almost harpsichord over the strips and stars of the Defense and their judgment ability. I don't think that should be necessary. I have great confidence in the top management of the defense.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e723	This debate could largely serve to end. I just thought that I had to take the floor in relation to the Width's argument. Hasn't the representative found out that the government is in favour of Marvika? After all, the recommendations that have come from a marine military team have been taken into account, so that is the very opposite of what he said in his article. Once I've taken the floor, maybe I can also comment at least a little bit of what Røss soil was so lovable to bring up. That was, point 1, no anointing he received, at least not from my side. If I'm going to use something similar, it was an ointment, or at least an attempt at one. And this with objectivity was from my side tried concretely to exactly this matter. Otherwise, with the lessons you've learned from the committee chair's catheter for a four-year period, I admit that sometimes it can be like that with objectivity. This is not likely to apply only to the members of the Committee, whether they are former or present. Otherwise it was nice that the representative Width brought this brilliant certificate to the committee leader in not immaterial areas, so I can support it and join it. But what I meant by my mention of the very high cigarette reading – I repeat the word – that the committee leader led to the benefit of Marvika in the last period, is that it's okay: someone can experience that there can be votes that can be difficult, but I want to stress that if you don't have coverage in your own group at all, it might be an idea to be something more reserved when you say it. But I realize, of course, that in relation to a decision to raise a stake, it may have a different interest than in relation to a local election. Then it becomes more a question of where to focus on the interests.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e734	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3719]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e748	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e759	The Defence Committee hereby submits its position on the investment of the Defence. The setting is, with few exceptions, unanimous. The likelihood of an armed attack on Norway has diminished since the Cold War. At the same time, we are in the paradoxical situation that our country has been de facto in war since the end of March. At present, it may seem that a political and diplomatic solution to the tragic situation in Kosovo can be in sight. It is, of course, far too early to carry out a final evaluation of the management of the Kosovo crisis. However, it is a fact that the distinction between practical and diplomatic levels and the tendency to use military power has become considerably smaller after the cold war. Whatever experience will be gained, it is not to be overlooked that the technological level and competence will be more and more central to the development of the defence structure of the future. For Norway, participation in international peace operations has been natural throughout all years, and there is no reason to believe that the need for Norwegian participation in such operations will be reduced in due time. The current position of the Defence Committee on the Investment of Defence naturally falls into such a perspective and as a necessary and logical function of the decisions taken by the Stortinget in recent years. Let me take a very short look back. St.meld. No 22 for 1997-98 on current long-term defence plans for the period 1999-2002 states that an effective and credible defence cannot be built up within a few years. It takes ten to fifteen years to acquire new generations of frigates and fighter aircraft, while building up skills to exploit such advanced systems. The material acquisitions and the building-up of competences we are now doing will be the main components of the defence we will have in ten to fifteen years. Therefore, long-termity and predictability are so important in defence policy. This was also due to the fact that the Storting asked for a long-term and overall plan for future material investments in the context of the treatment of the long-term notification. The size covered this investment profile a few weeks ago and there was broad agreement on the main features of these investments. Today's attitude represents the first major milestone on the road towards a modern and structured defence, ready for national and international challenges. I would therefore like to refer to some aspects of the suspension as the case rapporteur. The frigates, with their 12 billion dollars, represent one of the biggest investments in defense ever. It is a unanimous committee that supports the need for new frigates and that this is an absolutely necessary investment to maintain a credible defence. Through the adjustment to the investment profile - Innst. S. No 140 for 1998-99 — also concluded a unanimous committee on the financing of the frigates, with a temporary earmarked strengthening of the defence budget, which together accounts for about 40 % of the total. half of the costs of frigatane acquisitions. A joint committee is behind such an arrangement through this setting. It is also a unanimous committee which presupposes that, in the course of the further progress towards the conclusion of a final contract for the frigates, the Ministry bases an overall assessment on the number of ships and capacity. A unanimous committee also endorses the requirement that the professional-military assessments and needs of the defence should be given particular attention before final decision is taken. In the setting, there are different opinions relating to suppliers and the negotiation process, and I assume that representatives of the other parties in their contributions will address this issue in more detail. However, a unanimous committee argues that the Storting is constantly being informed of the progress of the negotiations in an appropriate manner, even before the conclusion of the final contract. I would also mention that a unanimous committee assumes that the Storting will be briefed if there is uncertainty about the cost, progress or performance of the project. Repurchase agreements are at the heart of the contract negotiations and will be an integral part of the final contract. An overall committee believes it is essential that the Ministry of Defence achieves 100 pst. repurchase and the establishment of mechanisms to ensure that the contracts are implemented as foreseen within the timeframes. So over to the second major project in the setting: purchase of new fighter aircraft. There is a uniform and unanimous attitude on the part of the Committee, and many of the assumptions and assumptions made by the Committee in relation to the frigate purchase have also been made for the purchase of the aircraft. I would therefore like to point out only one point relating to this investment. It is necessary to provide for a minimum of freedom of action in the Defence Investment Portfolio and therefore alternative offers for the provision of aeroplanes are necessary for the period 2003-2010 and for the period 2007-2012 if the option of 10 aeroplanes is triggered. A unanimous committee has joined this. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about that part of the setting where there is no consensus in the committee, namely, the time of the acquisition of new MTBs of the Skjold class. The members of the Committee from the Workers' Party and the Right repeat previous comments on the long-term notification and investment profile in the nomination. Our main arguments have been that new MTBs need to be seen in the context of rapid coastal closure. Very many coastal ports have now been closed, and the MTBs were to be the platform for the missiles, which became mobile. When the Workers' Party and the Right are on the original plan to start on 1 July 2000, it is linked to the contract and obligations entered into with Kværner Mandal. It is true that the Maritime Defense has reduced millions in the build-up of skills in Mandal. If the start is first in 2003, as the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party will, the competence is likely to be lost, and in worst cases the yard is closed. Therefore, the Workers' Party and the Right are in favour of the acquisition of MTBs immediately, as this is rational, subject to a successful test project. The Labour Party and the Right are promoting proposals on this, and I am therefore addressing this proposal, which is included in the vote. The representatives of the other parties in the Committee note that the budgetary framework adopted for the coming years does not allow MTBs to be phased in. I assume that these representatives themselves will take a closer look at this issue in their contributions later today. We live in a world of uncertainty and instability. Although we are today optimistic about the opportunities in Kosovo, we need to build a realistic perspective on European security policy in the coming years. A certain man said hundreds of years ago: Qui desiderated pacem, the chattered bellum – the one who longs for peace, must prepare for the war. Today's setting is a setting in the spirit of this wizard.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e795	Gunnar Halvorsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e798	I will refrain from Latin and stick to what I hope is good Norwegian. The case rapporteur has explained the main features of the setting, and that is as he also said, a setting that is marked by a great deal of consensus. It's important. We are through this document in a situation where we make the largest investments – at least measured in dollars and ears – that the Defence has ever made. We're doing that here for a relatively economical hall and with a very economical press basket, so we're going to make sure that we get into Storting magazine what this is all about. When you go to such significant investments, it has a huge impact on the other operations of the defence and other investments. Here we are currently in an imbalance. It's recognized. There's too little resources for operation. There has been a lack of investment in periods. So it was not with any great respect for this balance that the current year's original draft budget of the current government cut down by just over 800 million. kr. It seems to be a panic operation, and I have said that before. We have to avoid getting the kind of dramatic deviation in the years that are coming. If not, the entire investment programme will be a disaster for the Defense. And when the investment is made, there is also room to operate the material you buy. If you don't succeed in restructuring, you lose pace. And if the Storting doesn't have the ability to have long-term in what you do, not just the nearest three-four years, but actually over the next ten-twelve years, it can go the same wrong. This is therefore as much a challenge for the Defence and for the suppliers as it is for the Storting. And after all, it's the Storting that sets the framework, and thus imposes any priorities or imposes organisational changes that are not related to the investments that are made. This is where the challenges are really big. If one were to fail to present these projects, with an economic framework that fails, it would kill all other projects, to reverse this type of contract is more or less impossible without getting the same bill and with significantly less material. Then it will go out on other material, not only to the Maritime Defense and to the Air Force, but perhaps especially to the Army, as far as I can see, will be hungry fed in the time that comes. We're going through a long-term report in spring 2001, which hopefully will bring things more into context. But the challenges are to have a structure with a material that we can afford to have and that we can afford to use. That's what a total big thing says yes to, as of course with the exception of SV. Something else had not been waiting either. It was Stortinget himself who took the initiative to get St.meld. No 23 for 1998-99, which gave us the investment profile, and which in a way triggered the proposition that we are now debating about. It is clear what the planning framework will be in the coming years and how large investments must be, and at the same time what investments must be made to get the two heavy projects out of the way without stumbling others. Therefore, it is also almost alarming that an overall committee is preparing to introduce II into the setting, a roman figure that opens up the 1000 million plan frames during the frigate acquisition period. NOK, as we assume after the groceries message. There is a significant part of the understanding of this put in effect. I am aware of the unusual features of this because the Stortinge treats the annual budgets, but there is a clear commitment and a vital commitment if there is still to be a failure in the will to support the defence. This is at least the best guarantee you can get to get this ashore. I'm not going to say so much about the further process of acquiring the frigates. It is clearly written in the setting. It is not the case, as some have said, that the Nor-Escort Group disappeared, which means that Norwegian industry is not allowed to fit in. The Committee has been very careful to write its comments. We have full confidence that the Department and the Maritime Defense are able to handle the contractual elements in a good situation, because – if you do it right – you get optimal results through strong competition. And there's just competition in a hungry market, if I can use such an expression, that gives this opportunity. In the case of air acquisitions, it is also important to follow the same principles. Now there seems to be room to go on with two so heavy projects in parallel. What had to be achieved in terms of flight acquisition, in line with an F-16 concept and a Eurofighter 2000 concept, has to be decided by the professionals. But we can – I think – give the political warning that now it is important to get what you need, instead of what you so much want. There are questions about getting a tool to do the job, and there are questions about how high you should add to the list. There will be a balance between operational needs and requirements and the department’s ability to balance them. And the Storting is going to follow closely in both of these heavy projects. We have described the repurchase regime. The Committee has drawn up poor experience from the F-16 programme. It is important to follow up, so that you do not slip further in relation to repurchase. We have opened up to expand this beyond what the Storing has done in the past, or at least in line with what the Storing has done in the past. So, until it's in dispute. There is no dispute as to whether or not we should have new MTBs. It's about when. Here it's just plain to say that it's a wish from the Workers' Party and the Right to support the program in relation to what the Defence Manager has said is desirable. That on the one hand you have problems with Kværner Mandal in keeping employment up, we understand. On the other hand, it would also be quite strange to provide weapons platforms on something that has still not been tested, and where the main weapon system is not in place. I would like to know that the Right could tell you how much money you intend to spend, because you need flights. They will be in place at the same time as the Advance Party. You want frigates at the same time. Where, then, is the increase in the framework that makes this possible? It is well possible that the Right will do so, because the Right Party and the Advance Party have largely contributed to keeping the frames up. But the partner has not done so, that is the problem. For the Workers' Party, the power to keep the appropriations up to the level clearly needed by the Right in acquiring the MTBs does not exist. Then there's a question of whether this is a partnership that can give a majority for something that right afterwards can probably be a little bit of regret, because if you don't manage to get a majority to add to the framework, at least I want to know where the majority is. Will it push on projects or phase out other projects for which there is no room in the budget framework? St.meld. No 23 gives a clear indication of how this develops, through the numbers set up there. Without comparison, of course, I am afraid that the Right may have ended up in a fateful community with John Dale, who, in connection with a NATO meeting abroad, was injured to share a taxi with Mr. Shirinovskij. Guess who had to pay the bill? It wasn't Shirinovskij. I hope that the Right has a wallet that covers what's going on for their own needs, and that at the same time they can borrow the Workers' Party what they need to get the ends to meet. At least don't take a cab! It is also important to say a few words about a new coastguard vessel from the Progress Party. It is clear that with today’s situation in the yard industry, it is tempting to carry out this type of project. On the other hand, caution should be exercised as to what benefits mean in relation to the budget. Here's a balance that I'm asking the Government to assess. Perhaps it should also be the case that the requirements for the highest class are considered, so that unnecessary costs are not incurred, because there is also a need to be very advanced and require characteristics that may not be necessary, but which means a higher price tag. It will then be the little warning in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e831	We have just had a big debate on the reorganisation of defence, and we are currently having a big debate in the media and elsewhere on the future of defence – restructurings, new tasks, each stone should be turned around. In this context, it's natural to ask if the investments we're making here are going to be material that we're going to need in the future. Christian People's Party and Government mean yes. Fregates, MTBs, fighter aircraft and coastguard vessels are and are going to be elements that will have a meaning, no matter what the future brings. These large investments are appropriate to address crises and threats to Norway’s sovereignty. Freightets and fighter aircraft will make an important contribution to NATO's evacuation forces, and they are important in international crisis management, which will become more important in the years to come. So at the committee's setting, first about the frigates. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that the majority subscribes to that procedure and the preliminary result of the Government's decision regarding the frigate acquisitions. But the Workers' Party has its own comment that amazes me – not just a little, but a lot! The Labour Party considers it regrettable that the consideration of Norwegian jobs and the development of technological and industrial competences in Norway was not given greater importance to the Government’s assessment of the various offers. Here it's in place with a little bit of history repetition. It was the Workers' Party that initially launched the frigate project into international competition, under then Minister of Defence Jørgen Kosmo. In today’s Business on November 21, 1996, we read: ‘Defence Minister Jørgen Kosmo shatters the dream that the Norwegian shipyard industry should have a right of priority for the construction of six new frigates to DKK 12 billion.’ He made it clear in the article that the acquisition was to be the subject of international competition and that no new leads would be given in the course of the process. A project organisation was set up to prepare the Norwegian industry to meet such a competition, the Nor-Escort Group. When the tenders arrived, foreign companies were the best responders to the requirements and specifications requested. I can see that one can regret that the Norwegian industry was unable to respond as well, but that one should first have told the international community that we, Norway, would have international competition, and then in the next instance say that it was really just customs, would put Norway in a very unfortunate light. The Workers' Party, which in other contexts is extremely advanced in order to satisfy international and European societies, should be able to see just this point. The Government has taken into account Norwegian jobs under the conditions initially laid down by the Workers' Party. Active work is now being done to obtain a legally binding repurchase agreement of 100 pst. and direct shares in frigatan acquisitions as appropriate for the Norwegian industry, so that this note from the Workers' Party is as free from realities as possible, and most of all recalls a false proposal to the Norwegian industry. When it comes to repurchase, I think the experience we gained from the acquisition of the F-16 planes has taught us a good deal. The follow-up to repurchase is an important prerequisite. The use of the contract cancellation clause is also a good tool to ensure that repurchase agreements are followed up. The combat light project is the next big investment we're facing. This project has not come as far as the process is concerned, but is a replacement for F-5 and lost F-16 aircraft, which is something we need. I also record that a majority in the Committee, the Labour Party and the Right, are in favour of the MTB project being carried out. I congratulate – through the President of course – the community of Mandal on its final adoption. We in the Christian People's Party have carefully assessed the consequences it will have for the project not to provide it with three years, and whether we can defend pushing out other things in time to get room for this project already now. But the sum we're talking about here is about NOK 2-3 billion, with the weapon system. The government is and has been occupied by the workplaces of Kværner Mandal and has been active in selling the company’s products abroad. As a representative of the county, I find it sad that we do not have a pension, but as a defence-political spokesperson for the party, I – and the party – as so often in politics, have had to make a responsible choice, and it is a start of acquisition in 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e855	In St. Report. No 23 for 1998-99, The defence's investment profile, as handled by the Stortinget in winter, was set up for an initial investment programme for the defence up to and including the year 2006 at approx. Forty - five billion dollars. The investments we are going to make here today are about. $25 billion. They will extend beyond 2006 in time, yet they are the ones we are discussing today, an important part of the investment profile mentioned above. These are large sums, and if the programme is to be implemented effectively, so that we have maximum defence effect out of the licenses, it is entirely necessary that the Government and the majority of the population systematically sympathise with objectives and resource access. If that is not the case, the consequences will inevitably be winging, a great risk of misinvestment and a fundamental uncertainty in the whole organisation of defence. The state of defence today is unfortunately an illustration of this. Now, when the Defence Over Commandment gets close to everything between the sky and the earth, there's a sort of despairing attempt to get out of the imbalance that the Government and the big crowd have brought them up in. I actually thought that there was hope that a now had learned this, also in the light of the serious warning from the director of the Defence Research Institute this winter about the so-called double imbalance in the defense. So the government in the revised national budget comes up with proposals to bring in 100 million. kr of the funds allocated to material purchases in the Defence. In the previous period, the government and the plurality, as we know, took in $1.15 billion from the funds pledged to material purchases, which include: led us to cancel a contract for the most necessary renewal of the Hercules fleet. So the government continues with the very bad practice of using cap. 1760 as a secondary or balancing item for anything else, this is accompanied by an ambitious programme presented by the Government to provide a new material and a message of strongly increasing ambitions for international operations. If a municipality had gone forward in such a way, it would of course have been stopped by the county council, but the Stortinget has, as you know, no government over it. For the Right, the thing is simple, we always allow the last penny in accordance with the measure. In the 1996 Defence Study, the head of defense said he needed 1.5 p.m. growth in the annual budgets to achieve the targets for which the Government and the Storting went in. The government entered for zero growth in the first two years of long-term message. Everything suggests that the defence manager's estimate is a minimum to reach the target. For this reason, the right-wing approach is based on its budgetary arrangements. The fight after the long-term message has for the Right has been in a running and hard fight to get the Government not to agree to the Right's arrangement, but to stand on its own, during the budget management last fall and then now in the revised national budget. This is the back cover for the case that I now have for handling. In the Right, we have to form our own defence policy line for the first time, so that we can do everything we can to push the Government and the government parties to all possible positions on their own. When it comes to the material procurement proposals we are considering today, they have the full support of the Right. We consider them to be structurally independent. materials that we need, as well as the changes in the structure we get in the years to come. We are a few in the arrangement to get new frigates and that this has first priority. We are also some in that it should acquire at least five. The buy-back scheme is outlined in the setting, and I refer to it, but I would like to stress that this does not have to be carried out in such a way as to increase the cost of the project. I also find reason to point out that strategic partnership can be an interesting alternative to direct repurchase and should be considered where this might be relevant. The same liability for the purchase of the aircraft, which is the second major purchase that has been proposed. Since the financial frameworks are so unattainable, for reasons I've been in the past, it's necessary to build flexibility in time in connection with the acquisition of new aircraft, and the Right agrees with it. In the case of the missile torpedo boats, the Right, together with the Workers' Party, has repeated their common comments from the management of the long-term message last spring and the investment profile last winter, and we are now presenting proposals accordingly. Some have called this service, but it isn't. These two parties have been supporting this whole process from the management of the long-term messages in 1993. It was agreed to reduce the number of MTBs from 38 to 22. 14 of these were of the HAUK class to modernise. 8 new ones were to be obtained and phased in from approx. 1998; In the spring of 1995, the project was presented for decision. The 1996 budget agreed to develop and obtain a pre-series boat. Series production was carried out in the years 1999-2003. The 1997 budget stated that a contract had been concluded with Kværner Mandal on the preseries boat, which was to be delivered in 1998 and tested for a year. An option should apply to five-seven new vessels. For external reasons, the front serial ship was somewhat delayed and is now known to be delivered in the spring. It's now for testing. The one-year test period will thus expire in spring 2000. In accordance with the above, the Maritime Defense Service has entered into an option with the supplier for the supply of additional seven vessels. This option expires on 1 July next year. For this reason, it should of course be that if the results of the tests are satisfactory, an option triggers and goes on with the production phase immediately. This is the only thing that is economically justifiable. Everything else is getting more expensive. If a deferred production of three years, for which the Government and the minority in this house are involved, the project will necessarily be more expensive because the production environment will be dispersed in the meantime, a new contract will have to be concluded, perhaps with a new supplier that will have to start from scratch. Maybe you'll have to go through a new round of offers. It's spent 300 million. kr on the front serial vessel, in which case they may be thrown straight out of the windows. It should be obvious that this is not the case for the defence. At the same time, we must bear in mind that MTBs of the HAUK class are not getting newer over the years, and that the Government has a MTB Quadron in its proposal to the Defence Force for International Operations to be operationally delayed in the summer of 2005. Otherwise, it's a good principle to finish one project before starting a new one, not the other way around. On this background, Right states that one must proceed with the production phase of the new MTBs immediately if the trial period gives a successful result. The investment profile therefore needs to be adjusted in order to make room for this, and money has to be made available at the latest in the context of the revised national budget in spring 2000. I am very pleased that the Labour Party agrees with this, so that this project can be carried out in a rational way and in the most economically advantageous way for the Defence. The whole thing is really about financing a rational way of implementing this project, and the proposal of outsourcing, the deviation from the original schedule, for which the government and some of the parties in this house are entering today, will clearly make this project more expensive than it had to be. Otherwise I would like to say that there is a lot of anxiety about the plans etc. in the defense today, and I'm not sure that there can be any trouble – peace is one of the best, we know – so that there are now many options being considered, and that a plan is good. Of course, it's inconceivable with a certain realism, so that a non-planning for things that don't belong at home in the real world. The important thing for us here in Stortingen is that the next long-term message will be addressed here in the spring of 2001, as we have decided. It's an absolute milestone. We must then have the message before Christmas 2000 – for a long-term message we must have proper time. We're going to travel a lot, we're going to have a lot of ears, it's not that one can dump a long-term message here before Easter in 2001 and wait for us to finish it before vacation. It's completely irresponsible. Therefore, we must have this message before Christmas next year. What the government does in the meantime is exactly the same for me, but there will be serious problems here in the house if we don't get the long-term message before Christmas next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e883	St. pp. No 65 is a very comprehensive and important proposition – important for defence, important for Norwegian business and important for Norwegian society. Freightets and fighter planes are very central to our defence structure. The frigate project has been planned for a long time, and the Stortinget has been briefed, and has drawn up the framework for the project through a number of treatments. The new frigates will have an important role in our future defence, be central to sovereignty and defend Norway. The construction of the frigates was the focus of the previous government on international tenders. From the original 12 stakeholders, one after a selection process was left with three operators when this proposition was submitted. However, after that time, the Norwegian group, Nor-Escort, has withdrawn. Nor-Escort had the disadvantage, unlike the other two providers, that they had not built frigates before. Despite this, the group developed a very good concept, and through this work and the cooperation they had with the Maritime Defence Supply Command early in the offer process, it was built up a good competence in the participating companies. One of the challenges we are now facing is that this project can contribute both to empowerment and employment in Norwegian industry. Competence enhancement is not least important in order to solve the challenges facing the Norwegian industry in the future. The traditional way to do this in acquisition of the Defense is through repurchase. Regardless of the solution, part of the frigate equipment will have to be purchased from abroad, and good repurchase agreements for Norwegian industry are therefore important. The Committee concludes that 100 pst. repurchase is a prerequisite. Repurchase may also be used in relation to direct deliveries to the project. But in this context, we also have an alternative: partnership between foreign supplier and Norwegian industry. This is a very complex technological project, with a lot of development work and engineering work. Such challenges will be faced by Norwegian industry in the years to come. Controlling this will be the most important competitive factor in the future. Therefore, it is important to build this competence through frigate purchase. Here is partnership, or the more commonly used concept of joint venture, a good solution. Competence building and employment in Norwegian industry must become an important factor in the process that now remains before the conclusion of a final contract. Norwegian engineers and other Norwegian workers are skilled, and should benefit and develop their skills through this job. The purchase of fighter aircraft is no small matter either. The investments are important for our defence, our sovereignty and our participation in international operations. Two foreign operators compete for this contract. The potential for direct deliveries from the Norwegian industry is here lower than for frigates. Therefore, it is important to put in place a good buy-back regime in order to secure a mission to the Norwegian industry. The evaluation of the repurchase after the previous match purchase in the 1970s has shown that this did not work well enough. Therefore, it is important to put in place a good system now, and the Committee also asks the Government to consider an extension of the buy-back scheme to several sectors, inter alia. to help speed up the execution of repurchases. Both in the long-term notification last year and in the follow-up investment profile we addressed last month, the Government proposes to phase in the MTB project from 2003. This has been interconnected with other investment projects, available investment funds and the development of the main weapon. Kværner Mandal, a provider of MTBs, depends on the early start of the project to reduce employment. This is a very difficult situation for the company, for the community and also for us in this room. The defence and our problem is that one should benefit from the project, the boats must be fully equipped, even with weapon systems. Then you're talking about a project up to NOK 3 billion. Unfortunately, there is no money to do without drastic intervention in already prioritized projects. That is why we support the launch of the project in 2003. Kværner Mandal gets a challenge; we admit it – there is no simple situation. The solution may be to find a partner so that the competence built up during the production of miners and the front-line vessel of MTB can be transferred to other commercial projects. We've discussed the disagreement at this point in several contexts. Now that the Workers' Party and the Right are promoting a concrete proposal, there are two issues related to the investment profile and to the relationship with the Defence that I should have asked, but which I did not get. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e911	A co-conspirator's defense committee, which is not a member of SV, is going in today to go on spending over $24 billion on investing in new frigates, helicopters and fighter aircraft, without having decided what kind of defense Norway should have in the future. This is nothing but irresponsible. When we know all the trouble that has been around the opera house and the price tag on it, then we could build an opera house of NOK 2.4 billion in ten Norwegian cities for the amount that the majority use today. It is worrying that today's liability is met when defence investment in this room only receives protests from SV, not least if we see what these investments will result from operating costs. The frigates are expensive to drive and keep going, and then either the defense has to get more money to run, or other branches of the defense have to give up, or maybe one of them has to take away our protection. The responsible point of view in this case is to wait with the Investment Plans of the Stortinge to answer what kind of defence concept Norway should have. This is pure logic. You set your goal first, and then add a planer to achieve these goals. Then you have to relate this to the amount of money you have. The Storting majority do the opposite. They go to the store and spend $12 billion on frigates, and then they say, "Well, what am I going to use these for, should I believe?" You have a lot of money when you do your purchases that way. And I'm guessing that a purchasing policy of this kind is not accepted by the staging representatives of their private households. But now it's the taxpayers' money that's been spent this way. So the responsible person in this case is to follow the normal procedure, as several high-ranking professional militants have clearly stated. So it's the professional militarists and the SV who think the majority have to answer these questions: what kind of defense are we going to have? What means do we have for this defense? And what do we need in this defense? Only then can responsible purchases be made. The size has recently entered a new shootout field, including this one, without actually being sure that you need it. More claims that now you should move all exercises to North Norway. So today, the multiples continue on the same line. Or – and that is even worse – is it that it is actually NATO's new defence concept that we are now developing with today's procurement, a concept that shows in the Balkans how unsuccessful it is, even in violation of international law? In the new concept, NATO will operate as a world police force, without necessarily having a basis for international law. This is what SV will protest against. And if we're thinking about having five new frigates, it's hard to see that these are just going to be able to have defensive functions for the Norwegian coast. So the frigates may appear to be part of a concept that Size doesn't have a position. So if this is true, today's decisions bind us to a strategy that I'm trying to predict more than SV is inconsistent with. Not least, it is strange that the centre parties adhere to such a policy without discussing the nature of the defence concept. I'm taking up SV's suggestions. The first is based on doing things in the right order, simply waiting for the treatment of the purchase of frigates, new helicopters and fighter aircraft to the Stortinget to determine what kind of defence and security policy concept Norway should have. The second is a proposal to strengthen the Coast Guard functions of the Defence for the future. Then we think it's possible to involve the construction of an MTB at Kværner Mandal, and then wait with the rest of the construction for Stortinget has discussed the defence concept of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e922	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e925	With a little goodwill, one might say that the representative Langeland had a point in the reasoning in his post if he hadn't had the last bit – that we should have one MTB in any case, and then we should clarify the concept side. I do not believe that in any circumstances. Today, however, when there is a majority – unanimous – of the heavy investments in today’s position, both on the frigate side and on the air side, it is of course related to the conviction and analysis that these heavy investments are structurally independent, and that we believe that through many treatments in the Stortinget they deserve their place in a forward-looking defence. It is very difficult, as the large majority sees it in Stortinget, to imagine that we should be able to conduct effective sovereignty monitoring of Norwegian territory and participate in international operations without having an up-to-date capacity in these important areas. And with the park of ships and aircraft we now have, it goes without saying that these investments force themselves – some say they come in the last team. Looking at one on the map of Europe, one will see that the Norwegian economic zone and the socket probably account for up to 30 pst. of the area of Western Europe, and if Norway, of all, then does not have a capacity both on the ship's side and, for that matter, on the air side to monitor what is going on in this vast area, then it is the same thing as excluding ourselves from any defence policy credibility, in my opinion. This does not mean, of course, that we do not have a great need to go through all the individual elements that are partially accelerated through leakages to the press in the context of the defence study in 2000, and where we are undoubtedly facing major challenges in the area of structural policy in defence. But I think it will essentially go to the organisation of land defence and, to a lesser extent, of aircraft and maritime defence. So some specific points to today's suspension, which are partly affected by many already. The Labour Party fully acknowledges that we have made good progress on the international market in a broad bidding round when it came to the new frigates. It in itself is a unique vision in Europe and, for that matter, globally. Most countries don't do it this way, they're a lot more protective than we are. But when the Labour Party's governments chose to do that, it obviously has to do with the fact that it's been 30-40 years since we built frigates, and it therefore had its own value to figure out how good Norwegian environments were in relation to foreigners, and how this could be used to push the actors, both outdoors and at home. It is some of the purposes, so that one gets the most defence out of each krona, but also, of course, to contribute to the Norwegian working and production life getting its legitimate share of the development in these areas, because that is what we are talking about. It is a political responsibility to ensure that Norwegian working and production lives have a legitimate share of development in these areas, and it is not as easy to describe as saying that you are the cheapest, or you are the best. Here we must have a combination of an active industrial and employment policy and a defence policy line. It has never been such that one of them should lead us to cancel the other. And when the committee unanimously says that ‘the objective must be to ensure Norwegian shipbuilding and Norwegian defence industries a significant direct share of the project through the contract negotiations and the repurchase agreements to be carried out in connection with this project’, there is, of course, a signal that there should be political governance in addition to the other important moments of which both the suspension and the proposition are concerned. When we expressed disappointment and repeated some of this in connection with the progress in this matter, it was because we had the faith, not least after the signals from the Central Party leader Odd Roger Enoxsen, that the Nor-Escort group was strongly inside the picture through the competence of the actors individually and collectively. And we hope and believe that these actors, even though Nor-Escort has gone into disintegration, are still strong inside. But, of course, it must be guided by the active influence policy for which the Ministry and the Defence are responsible in the further follow-up in this area, so that one gets the best possible result out of it, even in this perspective. So some words about the MTBs, which have received attention, naturally enough. Now it was never quite clear what the representative Hovind had intended to ask, but I tipped it off: what should be displaced? Looking at the big picture of the future investment profile that came to Stortinget just before Christmas, there is a very good chart showing what the composition is graphically up to 2006 in the relationship between frigates, aircraft, coastguard ship ‘Svalbard’, MTBs and land defence investments. It's a small thin stripe that goes over several years, which is the MTB project, something over NOK 3 billion on seven ships over a few years. Of course, we do not argue that the progress of this relatively thin project in a graphical sense should lead to other things being blown off or pushed aside. The central thing for us has been to ensure, as my honourable associate, Ingvald Godal, that we have the capacity of Kværner Mandal – the competence that lies there – on the day we really need it. And so it can go the flute if we don't make up our cutlery in the first six months of next year. A successful trial project that leads to a failure to follow-up immediately can lead to the fact that the maritime defence we are all concerned with is not an alternative in 2002 or 2003, and that would of course be completely irrational from any point of view, including from the point of view of the Defence, not least with the many millions already invested, on which Ingvald Godal was also involved. But we never said that this project should be speeded up at full speed with a view to maximum implementation. Of course, the important thing is to keep the wheels going. And if I remember the investment profile right, it's 50 million. kr in the first year, 50 million. kr the second year, and then an internal consideration will show what is necessary for the third year in order to keep the lamp extinguished at Kværner Mandal, or the company that will then have to take responsibility for this yard. That's what's in our thinking in that area. I believe, in the light of the same graphical presentation, that the weight of the large investments in air defence and army – perhaps primarily in the two areas – is possible even by extending other projects somewhat further in time if necessary. That's to the extent that the proposition says the same thing, but it's not the same thing as saying that then another thing has to cancel. I believe that it is important for the Workers' Party to be emphasised.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e957	The investment proposition of the year is special. We are now presenting two of the defence's largest investments ever. For the frigates, the approval of Storting in the spring session is absolutely necessary to avoid delays. Although progress on the fighter flight side may not be as critically dependent on approval this spring, there must be no doubt about the willingness to carry out this central project as foreseen. Otherwise, delays in the project and the loss of the benefit of current real competition between several operators are at risk. The acquisition of new frigates and fighter aircraft is anchored in the Government's overall and long-term policy for the development of the Defence presented in the Report of St. No 22 for 1997-98, the long-term report, followed up in St. meld. No 23, investment profile. The presentation of the Storting approval projects is the logical third step in this process, so a step was taken by the Government on 7 May – the day after the Stortinge treatment of the investment profile. Based on the position of the defence committee and the debate so far today, I note that there seems to be a broad consensus in the Storting on the need to acquire frigates and fighter aircraft, although it is formidable sums this is about. It would be both irresponsible and easy to sweep the uncertainty of such a large and time-consuming project under the carpet. We have done a lot to minimize the uncertainty in the projects before we present them to the Stortinget. Since the beginning of the 1990s, extensive basic work has been carried out on both projects, including: Defence Research Institute, Supply Commands, Defence Overcommand and potential suppliers. The most extensive basic work has been done on the frigate side, where in the initial phases of the project around 500 million have been used. kr. Furthermore, we have given the greatest possible emphasis to fixed prices, one of the main suppliers responsible for the operation of ships as a whole, and comprehensive financial guarantees from the main contractor. This helps to significantly reduce our risk in the project. The ongoing negotiations are expected to further reduce the risk in the project. We want to operate with an economic buffer that can capture the remaining uncertainty. Furthermore, I focus on a continuous and systematic process to monitor and monitor unsafe conditions in and around the project. On the fighter flight side, the Air Force received the offer from the two suppliers last Tuesday. These offers will form the basis for the forthcoming negotiations beyond summer and autumn. However, let me underline the important assumption that applies to both projects: if the negotiations do not lead to a satisfactory result, the entire acquisition will be re-assessed. I would like to place great emphasis on keeping the Stortinget and the Defence Committee informed about the development of these two very central and comprehensive projects. Like the Committee, the Government is concerned with the industrial policy aspects of the acquisition of the Defence. In principle, our strategy is aimed at facilitating Norwegian industry to deliver an increasing share of what defence needs. But in those cases where deliveries from our own industry are not possible or appropriate, repurchasing is our main means of contributing to the development and value creation of our business. In line with the buy-back policy, we require the main suppliers of both frigates and fighter aircraft to complete 100 pst. repurchase, in other words, to an extent equivalent to the full amount of the contract. The repurchase will consist of both direct deliveries, which are part of the tangible goods the Defence acquires, and indirect deliveries, which are not directly related to the acquisition. The distribution between direct and indirect buy-backs will be clarified through the negotiations, and in the evaluations of the buy-backs, we will focus on both maritime and defence relations. Let me stress that the repurchase will be part of the contract, and default will be covered by a penalty clause and, in the worst case, provide the basis for termination of the contract. However, not all interested Norwegian suppliers will receive part of the repurchase package. In most areas, there will be competition between Norwegian companies, a competition that some win and others lose. We are all aware of the potential for imbalances in defence planning. Then, of course, it is particularly important to assess the risk of misinvestment. The analyses on which St meld is based. No However, 22 for 1997-98 and the assessments that the Defence has so far made in preparing for the next long-term announcement, conclude that frigates and fighter aircraft will be the key elements of our defence in the foreseeable future. Therefore, I am convinced that the very significant amounts we will spend on acquiring new frigates and fighter aircraft represent robust and absolutely necessary investments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e978	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e981	I'm glad of the offensive line that the Council of State is signalling here. It's a follow-up to what's in both the proposition and the setting. The repurchase agreements shall be an integral part of the final contract. So hopefully, we're in a completely different situation than having a head of the bureau, or whatever it might be in the Ministry of Defence, and have a count many years later to figure out how far you've really come. But what remains to be seen is how the ministry will use this active driving role to force these repurchases as a share of the contract and force the other perspective that is also included in the suspension, namely that one can imagine forms of partnership related to the contract to be made with one main contractor, linking parts of Norwegian industry with other similar or other potentially cooperating foreign industry. I would like the Council of State to say something more about how she wants to exploit this more offensive technique in order to get these results, because when the Storting through the commissioning has put so much emphasis on us wanting to be up-to-date, it is because we all feel a strong responsibility for 12,2 billion kroner to have a direct positive effect on Norwegian jobs and Norwegian employment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e990	First of all, I would like to say that with the purchases of this dimension that the Defence Agency is now doing, opportunities are opened up for Norwegian industry in many ways. There is an opportunity that I know many Norwegian companies themselves are taking hold of and trying to get a piece of it. In addition, we from the Ministry of Defence, the Defence itself and at political level will use this opportunity for what it is worth. In addition to the work done in the Ministry, the Government has set up a group of State Secretaries from the departments concerned who will try to provide political support for the opportunities that lie here. In total, this should provide a negotiated result where an agreement with one main contractor, and underlying binding legal agreements between companies and this main contractor, will be the total package we decide on in the final analysis. This means that if we do not feel that this is adequately maintained, as I said in my post, it is a clause that we can say in retrospect that this is not fulfilled. But as far as possible, we will negotiate a total agreement before we conclude a purchase contract. And the government, like all the parties on the Stortinget, is just as concerned that we're going to get this done in the best possible way for Norwegian industry, and I'm going to promise to keep the Stortinget and the Committee up-to-date, as I said in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e999	I think it is positive that the Council of State responds both to questions from the previous speaker and relates to the unanimous committee comments in the suspension relating to the repurchase mechanism and related to getting Norwegian companies, when we are in such a – I get to call it – in the circumstances of the lucky situation, where it is possible to press the suppliers for benefits that I think would be almost impossible in other circumstances. And then it is also important that the Council of State ensures the work that is done, so that a proper balance is struck between what is to be done by technology, what is to be done by bridge construction between Norwegian industry and foreign industry, and what is to be done to achieve a project that remains within the economic framework. I would like to stress that what the Committee says about the financial framework, of course, is a barrier to how much you can get, but I think it is very important that those who are now competing in the final phase here also understand these elements that are in the position. That is why this is also a tool for the Government and the Ministry in the further debate. I want to ask the Council of State a few questions. What impact does it have on the other investment programmes if MTBs are phased in at the time that the Right and Labour Party seem to want? And to follow up on the representative Ingvald Godal: Will the Council of State now be able to assure that the long-term message will be placed on the Stortinget table as early as the representative Godal wanted? And then finally: Representative Langeland's comparison with ten operas strategically located – is it to lure or scare? It could seem two ways.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1006	With regard to the phase-in of MTBs earlier than the government has said before, and which we maintained during the treatment of the investment profile, that is, in 2003, it will, of course, have to create changes in the investment profile that we provided for treatment in the Storting quite a short time ago. As far as the immediate effects are concerned, as I see it now – but if the decision is that way, of course, I have to come back to it in a more qualified way than this – I would think that for example. aeroplanes must be capable of being moved on time. It's the economics of it. The second is that we will then have MTBs for which we do not have a developed weapon system, because it is longer in time than 2000 – in fact 2004, as far as I remember. So we're going to have a problem with being able to use them as well. And then we have the operating side of the Defense – which we have been about in a previous case today – where there is, of course, a need for additional space for operation earlier than assumed. So it'll shift a lot of things. That will probably create the need – without me being sure of it – for a new St.meld. No 23 on the investment profile of the long-term period that we had for treatment in Stortinget on 6 May. But I have to get back to this if there is the outcome of the decisions here today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1013	In order to take the last of the MTBs immediately, we in the Labour Party and the Right have just formulated our proposal in such a way that we invite the Council of State to make a proposal for an adjustment to the investment profile in connection with the budget of the Autumn, so that this purchase can be carried out in a rational way. A counter-question here would be, how much more expensive is my council that the MTB purchase will be if one has to postpone it for three years? It could be a good idea to get it done. The reason I asked for a line was that there is so much debate today to get these frigates, fly usb., that we've been in it so many times before, in the long-term message osb., so now it's basically the practical implementation of things we've been through a long time ago, that's on the agenda. And then this with repurchase and the Norwegian business contribution to and place in this is very interesting. I might want to mention that something my name brother had in the past, that is, this with strategic partnership. Will the Council of State consider this in connection with repurchase? It is interesting for Norwegian business to get direct orders on deliveries, but it might as well be interesting to have a strategic partnership with important international groups, which can give contracts in a much wider perspective both in size and in time. I could therefore like to right the Council of State comment on that. I would also like to ask the Council of State if it will do something to make the repurchase more effective than it has been in the past. And finally, I would ask her to make sure that the repurchase agreement does not make the project more expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1020	The last one first – faster repurchase efficiency. The Ministry of Defence has now described its repurchase strategy, and together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we have adjusted the elements of it to see if we can make repurchases or deliveries take effect in a wider range of areas of high technology and the development of long-termity in our own business than just what has been done in the past. In it it should actually be that there might be opportunities for faster implementation because we have a broader approach. To the extent that we can influence in terms of strategic partnerships, we will do so, but this will be agreements between companies and the main contractor, so that there is largely something going on in their direction. But that there may be opportunities here to conclude alliances that go far, far beyond this kind of contract we're now talking about, alliances for development in partnership with the main contractor, I think certainly is right, and we can push on. But it is, as I said, primarily an act that must be part of these underlying agreements, which, once again, is part of the big deal with one provider. Then I forgot to respond to the strong warning the representative Ingvald Godal gave me, that if we don't come with the long-term message before Christmas 2000, there will be trouble in this room. I took note of that, because I think it's quite easy to carry on. I have said in my posts in the spring of 2001, and we have worked after that, in the sense that the Stortinget will have time to deal with it in the spring of 2001 before this sitting accumulation is dissolved and a new one comes to fruition in the autumn. So within the understanding that it will be possible to process it in this growing period, I will do what I can, but before Christmas of 2000, I can't promise here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1029	I have two questions relating to NATO's defence concept. The one thing is related to the international conflict in the Balkans, and I want to use a quote from Lieutenant General Danielsen, who has stated the following: ‘I’m not very satisfied with how NATO acts in Yugoslavia. It is very critical that they first threatened Miloseciv long before they went into attack. Then they hit without thinking about what would happen if he didn't go right away, and without thinking about alternatives. It was stupid." My question is: how does the Council of State see the role that NATO is now saying they should have, with a world police-like role in relation to the UN Charter? The second question is related to the use of money that we have here today. Røssjord spoke to me in a line about opera houses. The point of mentioning it is that when you look at the particularity of operasaka in relation to the use of money that one has here today, which could lead to the construction of an opera in ten Norwegian cities for NOK 2.4 billion, and then no notice of these things, SV says it is a pity. When it comes to these frigates, which cost a lot of money, the question is, What kind of strategic role does the Council of State think they should have? Should the five frigates go along the Norwegian coast? Is there a proper use, or is it no longer such that these frigates are thought of in the new strategic concept that NATO puts forward? Does the Council of State think it makes sense to have so many loopholes for such a use?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1043	The President is well aware that the first question raised by the representative, Langeland, has little to do with the matter that the Grand Council is dealing with today, but since the President accepted that the question was asked, one must accept that the Council of State answers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1047	Let me take the frigates first since it's the theme here. Clearly, these are frigates that will be used independently of the future defence structure in Norway. Of course, they should go along the Norwegian coast and perform Norwegian territorial tasks, but we also see that one of these frigates can be part of the equipment for our international operations if there is a type of operation with which it is necessary to have that type of equipment. As I said, the head of defense said this was no misinvestment. The representative of Langeland referred to the Director of the JRC in an earlier statement. I don't see the FFI's director there that it's not necessary, but he was actually worried about what funding framework the Defense would have in the future. So there was no discussion for or against frigates. So to Langeland's claim that NATO now undertakes to be world police. It's a manufacturing problem. It is clear that the additional tasks contained in the new strategic concept are not Article V tasks. It will only be used when UN resolutions and UN decisions do not come forward, but it will be in line with the UN's intention and mandate, and it will have the task of being crisis-free for so-called Petersberg operations, i.e. conflict-free, not territorial requirements. NATO's new strategic concept will certainly come back and discuss more, but it is clear from the Norwegian side that the UN's positions and principles must be based on this. But that's when the UN... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1058	The president thinks that's a good idea, too. – There are no others who have asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1063	The defence is facing major investments, whether you want to compare them with opera buildings around Norway or, for example, you could compare them with tunnel projects in the same country. Anyway, there'll be awfully many kilometers of holes in Norwegian mountains. Either in the case of frigates or new fighter aircraft, this will involve long-term financial restraints, which will affect all operations within the Defence. If the defence is to be able to fully exploit the initial investment, the total operation must be adapted to a new structure at all levels. The reorganisation of maritime defence, which we debated earlier today, can be a test of Storting's willingness to take the defence challenges seriously. Today, we are at risk of the defence's ability to choose its own level of operation in part being abolished for the sake of district policy. In the ultimate sense, we will be left with a geographically dispersed, spaced defence with little possibility of exploiting the capacity of the new equipment we are planning to acquire. In other words, we must either increase the framework in the future or follow the savings proposals that the Defence itself recommends. It is too early to say whether one should choose the German or Spanish offer for the supply of frigates. It will be crucial for price guarantees and buy-back guarantees. To the extent that parts of the contract with the supplier can be realised by Norwegian shipyards, this too would be a weighty factor in the choice of supplier. A prior phase-in of the new MTBs will require the timely release of other investments. A prior acquisition of MTBs than is assumed by the Government, in addition to the frigate acquisitions, will impose significant requirements for conversion and savings in all maritime defence areas. In order to operate the new frigates, the marine defense must save between 300-400 million. kr annually. Storting's treatment of the previous case can be a bad signal when, on the one hand, we require savings of hundreds of millions of kroner of Defense, but even cannot save more than a few million dollars per. years. It is likely that operating the investments will be a greater challenge than the investment itself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1080	Let me start with one of the things that are described last in the setting and in the proposition, namely Nordic cooperation on the acquisition of unit helicopters, which we see as a very positive project. We hope that, although individual Nordic countries have indicated different needs and that they intend to acquire unit helicopters at different times, this project will be realized. First of all, our need will relate to the new frigates, and we have therefore said in our remarks that we are 'foreseeing a drive forward which allows the helicopters of the frigates to be acquired at a rate that satisfies the integration of the helicopters on the ships'. However, the Jagland government’s defence minister, Jørgen Kosmo, in his time worked actively to get the opportunity to hire unit helicopters to test them out in several contexts. However, this project was stopped by former Minister of Defence, Fjærvoll. That's too bad. It could have been interesting to see which areas the unit helicopters were usable. Several uses have been mentioned in different documents for Storting. We therefore hope that a Nordic project will provide us with experience in several applications for unit helicopters. Although most posts and press releases on the investment of the Defence have recently been about frigates and missile torpedo boats, the investments for new fighter aircraft are also part of this proposition and the setting, and also an important case for Norwegian industry, as a result of, among other things. a. repurchase agreements. Today's fighter aircraft, F-16, are currently going through what one in the aircraft language calls the Mid-Life Update. This means that they are technically updated, and therefore will last a few more years. But we also have older planes. Today we have 15 F-5 planes that now need redemption after 30 years of service. At the same time, over the years, we've lost some F-16 planes, which have to be replaced. Therefore, it is surprising that the SV’s proposal that we should wait for the treatment of new fighter aircraft is pending the identification of the defence and security concept that Norway should have. There should be no debate about the need to go to the purchase of new fighter aircraft. No matter which concept a chooser chooses, fighter aircraft is a very important element. As we've seen of recent months' events, it's just with fighter planes that we can participate in international operations of the kind we've been to in Kosovo. As a member of NATO, we have a responsibility to have equipment that allows us to also play a role with the other forces and units. With regard to the defence of our own country, there is no doubt about the role of fighter planes. The size of the project, as it emerges from the Committee's recommendation, has been briefed on the development of this project through several large-scale notifications and propositions. We are concerned that we are being properly informed by the ministry, which has repeatedly been signalled by the Council of State. We're happy about that. The Stortinget does not decide which type of aircraft we are going to buy. But from the Workers' Party we are very concerned, when a negotiator with any suppliers, that one not only takes into account the defence's requirements for the aircraft, but also takes into account which repurchase agreements and other ones can obtain. The experiences we have gained from previous projects, which have been discussed by many, are important experiences to take with them. I am pleased with the signals that the Council of State has given in relation to the line and strategies to which it is added. We look forward to working with the Ministry of Defence and the Council of State in this important work that is now ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1101	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1104	I want to get into the frigate project and the care of Norwegian jobs in that context. It is clear that this project is one of the largest industrial projects we have had, with a total framework of NOK 12.2 billion. But it's just as interesting that it has to do with very high skills and advanced technology. I have noticed that the Labour Party's members criticize the Government here, and in the setting they say: ‘These members therefore consider it regrettable that the considerations of Norwegian employment and the development of technological and industrial competence in Norway were not given greater importance in the Government’s assessments of the various offers.’ This comes in a strange light when we know that it was just the former government, the government of Jagland, that released the supply criteria, among other things. price guarantee requirements were central. This we know was unnecessary in projects like this. That's why we've come into this situation now when it's up to this case. The centre party would not have had this on offer, but had it done as much as possible in Norway by Norwegian shipyards with subcontractors. In addition, we would have used and developed Norwegian competences that could also have been used in the future. In the forthcoming frigate negotiations with Spanish or German suppliers, it is important to establish a partnership agreement between Norwegian suppliers and companies and foreign interests. This is now in the committee's comments, and in my opinion it is perhaps the most important comment of all who exist about this. In this way, the most important Norwegian suppliers can now participate in the development of projects, avoiding a situation where prices are pushed to a minimum through internal competition between Norwegian subcontractors. The whole situation could also have given Norwegian maritime nutrition a stamp that is different. This could in the long run be as negative as job losses. In the creation of partnership, or cooperation agreement, the players in the former Nor-Escort Group, as well as Fosen Mek Workshops A/S and Mjellem & Karlsen in Bergen, must be present as current participants. In addition, the maintenance tasks must be assessed in the same way as the development itself. So the frigate project is very important for both skills building and employment, not least along the entire West Coast. It is now important to get the most out of work and development added to Norway, under conditions that Norwegian suppliers can benefit from. I now assume that the Government will follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1126	It has been said from many here that the investments that we are invited to make today are structurally independent. No, I don't think they are, and I'm not alone to mean it. Essentially, they are not, except for the Coast Guard and possibly the MTBs should be built, based on our geography and our great interests in the North Sea. It has been referred to what the head of the Defence Research Institute, Nils Holme, believes about the investment document and the other documents we have received. I have never tried to imagine that Holme agrees with me on how the defense should be, but we agree on the important thing in this case, namely that the defense cannot afford both frigates and to order fighter planes and MTBs and the whole package at once. Holme says to Today's Business on 13 January: ‘There is an unjustified optimism in the documents sent to Stortinget, disregarding a number of foreseeable costs. Click-Drag to move the selected pixels to another location. ...the plans to launch both giant projects will end in a major accident, where the defense ends up without money to other absolutely decisive investments. Click-Drag to move the selected pixels to another location. Today we have a concept where we want to have in both bag and bag: a good invasion defense, high activity in international operations and other activities. We have to review this concept again," said Holme, and I agree. The new strategic concept of NATO has been little discussion about, and it should be. It has obvious weaknesses in relation to international law that we cannot live with. But it would be interesting to see whether the countries that have joined it could also join a defence of values and not just territories and out of area, and defend such values not only with weapons but through economic policies and trade policies. That's what could mean something instead of a military strategy to solve these problems. Then to the structure. The defense chief command now draws up lines for the full restructuring of the defense. Either you can end up in the north, or you can end up in the south. A smaller defense will in any case be less somewhere. Then perhaps the least-thought-out investment – and the investment I think we all will eventually admit is the least-good – is the field of fire. In such a strategy, whether you place it in the north or south, it will be completely wrong. If this is the case, as some people now suggest, that the shooting field will be necessary in relation to co-operation in preparation for international operations, I would like to recall what the Stortinge has said in dealing with ‘Nordic cooperation’: such tasks will be resolved in Nordic cooperation. Then one must practice in one of the Nordic countries, and then one must cross the boundaries of defence alliances. That is why I believe that this investment project is what should come to the bottom of the ladder.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1150	I notified two questions in my main post that I did not have time to ask. Now Bjørn Tore Godal understood as the experienced and skilled politician he is, what I should ask for, and he has already answered them. Then it might also be timely to ask the questions. One relates to the ratio to the investment proposition that we dealt with last month. I understood Godal's answer so that what has now happened does not involve any change in the investment profile. What we decided last time, and which was also voted for by the Labour Party, is firm. This project should in a way be infiltrated into what is already there. The second is not the construction itself, but the relationship with the Defence and the phase-in of the MTBs in the Defence. One thing is the construction, some other equipment with weapons, which, at cost, means just as much as the construction itself, and the phase-in of the structure. I understood that there was no particular change in relation to what we adopted last month, but that it was just a matter of getting the hang of it. I hope I have understood the answers correctly, and that what I have now drawn up is a clarification. In addition, I am pleased that a majority in this Chamber have signalled in the frigate case that a strategic partnership between Norwegian stakeholders and the foreign main contractor that had to be chosen at the end of the day is a very interesting way of moving forward to develop skills and technology in Norway. I think that has been an important clarification today, and it is also important to keep track of the progress of the project towards final contract to be written.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1163	I realize that it is approaching Upper Otta, but still have some defense words before it all crumble! We have to stick to national needs and national investment. So this document, as I said in my first post, is probably one of the most important things we've had in a long time when it comes to inviting the Stortinge to take the necessary decisions to get the projects started. As many have said, it has been a long process in advance. I take that as a clear sign that you have now laid a course, gained knowledge and based on past experience, so that you get these projects to the fullest extent possible, with the degree of uncertainty it will always be in so huge projects and projects with such a wide horizon. Therefore, it is also important for the Committee to stress that, if things are to indicate that there is a turning-off in a direction that is not appropriate in relation to the framework, the Storting must be kept informed. I have understood that the Council of State is prepared to do so. There are two things that we haven't spent so much time in this debate, which I just want to mention. The acquisition of new frigates and the acquisition of MTBs as early as anyone wants also has a different consequence, namely the weapons equipment on them. Thus, for both of these types of vessels, new missiles are to be launched. In this context, it is important that we now have a clear look at the development of ships in parallel with the development of missiles, in order to achieve the best possible synchronisation. That being said, it is also true that the frigates belong to the helicopters. This sounds like once you've got the platform, you put on a little bit of each of them. They've been lying there all along, so you shouldn't be surprised now if there's going to be a need to do some action that will prevent the discussion of unit helicopters from leading us to the point where we also get the phase shift wrong with the helicopter acquisition of the frigates. They are an integral part of the weapons and combat systems on board the frigates. That's why, as I see it, the committee points out that you're acquiring helicopters in such a way that this phased in with the ships, so that the weapon systems and frigates are in place in total at the same time and you don't run around and have an incomplete system. Nor is it without a certain price tag. Therefore, it is also important that II be adopted as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1174	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3720]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1188	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left 10 minutes each and the Twist Party elected 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to the exchange of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and after the submissions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1199	Let me start with an admission: As a relatively new staging representative, it has not been easy to work on this matter. Upper Otta-saka comes from the committee to the Stortinget with four different proposals. None of them have multiples, so one depends on someone voting subsidiaryly for us to have a decision here today. So for the last few weeks, I've basically gone around talking about voices, thinking about how the parties were going to vote, and how many people would break out in relation to their party's vision. Overall, this could be easier. Now I understand that there will actually be a subsidiary plurality in this room, by the Right breaking its traditions and binding the group to vote for something subsidiary. I am, of course, sorry about that. But it's not going to be multiples for this expansion as well. Upland forces wanted to complain to Stortinget. According to SV, Stortinget today deals with a complaint against a refusal to grant a concession of the size that the applicant wanted. In the opinion of SV today, the size must say yes or no to the extension of the application. But this view doesn't share the multiples in the committee. However, it is appropriate to note that some legal objections have been raised to complying partially with the complaint, as the Right Party and the Labour Party do with the solutions they have and as the concession applicant has not requested. The fact that a reduction in addition means that there is the possibility of going from the watercourse regulation law to the watercourse law, it has already been protested against, but this will probably be ample opportunity to come back to, now that one of these proposals seems to have multiples. It has been a good time to deal with the matter. The Committee itself has had an entire day of listening with all the parties present. This form of listening I can otherwise really recommend other committees to use. In addition, the Committee has been in the process of reaching an opinion. Some parties have traveled to the Ottawa Valley themselves, and many of the members of the Storting have spent a lot of time getting involved in the many aspects of the case. I myself was present on the weekend at the National Assembly of the Federation of Nature Conservation in Lom, where Obere Otta naturally paid great attention. Today, the size has given the necessary competence to make a decision – whether or not we take away the legal judgements that I mention. So now, the vote will show that the Right in this political election goes with the Labour Party and goes away from its traditions when it comes to nature protection, and when it comes to what individual representatives are allowed to mean. So I'll say a little bit about Upper Otta and the force balance. SV understands that Norway has problems with its power balance and that it has to import power from other countries, including Norway. coal power from Denmark. This is unfortunate and, of course, not desirable. The last time before 2008, in the context of the implementation of the Kyoto Agreement, this should be organised. Before that time, it will be decisive that measures and action plans have been developed that halt the growth of consumption and at the same time make us independent of imports of anti-climatological and environmental forces. Stopping growth and reducing consumption is the biggest challenge. The former State Council of the Workers' Party, Thorbjørn Berntsen, illustrated the composition of this challenge through the following statements: ‘The consumption hysteria has soon gone so far that we have to expand Upper Otta only to cover the power consumption of the new cabin to Kjell Inge Smoke.’ Any expansion of Upper Otta has very little to say for the force balance. A co-ordinated committee selected among others therefore to deal with the matter in advance of the energy message, which is to be dealt with at the cottage. After all, any expansion will not cover more than three-four months of projected increase in energy consumption. So there has to be a whole different and greater response to the question of resolving the growth of energy consumption. So far, the parties that spend most of the time telling us how cruel it is to import coal power have gone against most of the proposals in this will to do something about the problem. The government has bodies to the cross to get a multiple, but then most measures are gone. My hope is that we will be able to achieve something that will bring together a number of people in the energy message and budget for the year 2000. There is little reason to believe that the drivers of coal power imports in the Right and the Progress Party are involved, but the Workers Party may want to have an environmental profile. SV is aware that the area of unspoiled or low cultural impact of nature is constantly being reduced, and that water power development has been a very important reason for this. Of the world's 20 tallest waterfalls, nine are in Norway, and seven of these are piped. Two of the three watercourses are extended. In this context, it is important to stress that the conservation of ecosystems, biodiversity and pristine nature must be seen in an international perspective, and then an extension will be completely wrong. In addition, Norway has an international obligation to ensure a large, coherent area of life for the wild. If an expansion occurs, a new forceline may be built across the mountains of Awake! As shown in a report by researchers Nellemann and Erdhöj, Kraftlina will have negative consequences for the wild. It will be perceived as a violation of our international obligations if we do not take these facts into account. That Norway's Tourist Council, formerly NORTRA, and a number of organisations have been committed to the development of Upper Otta, is very special. Very many tourists come to Norway to see the waterfalls and experience the watercourse nature. A large number of investigations are confirmed. Norway’s Tourist Council is very clear on its concerns as to what a significant reduction in the water flow in Upper Otta will be able to say to tourists about their experience of the watercourse — and in general for Norway as a destination. Anyone who wants to see will see that an extension, without regard to size, will represent a major intervention in a unique river and foot landscape in a high mountain area. Not least, a reduction in water flow and a suppression of Heggebottwatten will be recorded and the natural experience will be weakened. SV believes that there is good reason to take seriously the concerns of the Tourist Council and remind them that the tourism industry has a lot of jobs and is said to be a bet area for Norway. SV is aware that there has been a large local involvement in the issue of development, and that is positive. In previous issues of power development, there has often been a positive attitude to local development. In this case, it's different. The local hold is far from clear — on the contrary, there are very many supporters of protection locally, both in local government and in the outlying local population. There is therefore no basis in this case to claim that the big community wants protection. This desire is absolutely present in the area of the Ottawa Valley, and if a count of municipal government representatives from the respective municipalities, one will find that 18 support development, while 75 are opposed. In this case, SV is in a position to show our former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland, who has subsequently said that he is sorry for the very controversial development of the Alta river, which is therefore equivalent to what might happen to the Right and the Labour Party is going to go in for today. It is important to think about this when we now face a similar case. SV is of the opinion that if expansion is chosen today, future generations will be protected from the potential to protect this beautiful natural area. With so little pristine nature again and so many natural interventions carried out, not least against watercourses, it is an important argument to give to those who come after us, choices. As everyone in this room knows, all the political youth organisations, with the exception of FrpU, are against development. Finally, a collection of environmental trajectories and associations such as the Norwegian Federation of Hunters and Fishermen, the Norwegian Association of Tourists and the Norwegian Tourist Council, as well as a large majority in the municipalities to which it applies, are moving towards an extension of the Upper Otta. It is important to be aware of that today, while we must say that the Stortinget does not come into the situation that Gro Harlem Brundtland came into after Alta. Therefore, say yes to the protection of Upper Otta. With this I address the proposal on this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1232	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1237	I am not going to criticise the representative of Langeland for his genuine interest and zeal in environmental matters, but also this contribution actually shows that the representative of Langeland has a relatively naive view of how to solve the energy supply in Norway. In his contribution, he strongly regretted that there is still and for the future will also be a dependency on importing coal-based force from abroad. In the setting he says that this is an extension that is of little importance. Only three-four months, he says, of the increase in energy consumption this expansion will represent. One of my questions is: Does the representative of Langeland think that energy to 20 000-30 000 households, in fact forever, is debatable, and how has the real representative Langeland intended to solve the power problems and energy problems we are facing? It's okay to rely on hydropower. It's okay to rely on wind power, on thermal power, on waterborne heat, etc., but does the representative of Langeland really believe that in the long run this will be enough to get the energy balance that we need?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1249	It may be that the representative Langeland has a naive vision, but in fact it is that if the Labour Party, together with the Right and the Advance Party, had not done what they are constantly doing in the budget procedures, simply to go against the electricity tax, to go against a proper bet on an increase, but to be in favour of a proper investment in alternative renewable energy, one could have done something about this. However, in the previous budgetary round, the Right, the Progress Party and the Labour Party said that we should not have an electricity charge, we should not have a proper investment in alternative renewable energy. So the answer to this is very clear. The challenge for the Workers' Party, as I said in my speech, when dealing with the energy message and budget of the House, is to focus on getting the necessary measures and action plans so that one gets at a stake in alternative renewable energy, reduces consumption through electricity tax – at all – at that time. So far, the Labour Party has ignored the important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1256	It was a little strange to hear the representative Langeland argue against an extension of Upper Otta. It is a fact that going against an extension of Upper Otta is to say yes to emissions of CO2 from Danish coal-fired power plants, 800,000 tonnes. That's also the same thing as saying yes to Swedish nuclear power. When you know how SV has previously run in issues that go on emissions and nuclear power, it becomes a strange form of morality, not to say a little bit of double morality. I also register that SV wants to outrun local democracy. A municipality is prevented from developing its own resources. In fact, the development of Upper Otta, either full or partial, involves natural interventions, but they are in reality relatively small in relation to the resources that are capable of producing. I have previously noticed that SV in other matters has had problems dealing with reality. You live in a dream world and dream that you should be able to increase the price of the electricity charge in order to reduce the electricity consumption. Those who are affected by it are those who have the least in society, pensioners and families with young children who are struggling to make ends meet. I would like to ask the representative of Langeland if there is a new policy from the SV to say yes to nuclear power, yes to polluting coal power to say no to what is pure energy, and that is a development of the local resources of individual municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1265	It's a little strange when the Progress Party comes up and gives the impression that they're worried about CO2 emissions, which they actually don't. There must be a stick at the bottom to answer the progress game. It's also a little cowardly, I thought, from the Progress Party, that one can't admit that one actually works against all the measures to bring down emissions and the power consumption. It is the Progress Party’s policy to be against anything that can lead to a change in more environmental and climate-friendly direction. If the party of progress could take that ball and catch that problem, it would be interesting. This makes SV, at least for each budget proposal, and will do so when processing the energy message to the autumn. Then it's exciting to see if the Progress Party can do anything other than what they've done before, but I doubt it. So to this local democracy aspect, sometimes it's very selective, as the Progress Party does. It's true that in the municipality of Skåk, there's a number that is positive for an extension. But in all the other municipalities in the Ottawa Valley, one is against. There will then be a strange form of local democracy definition if you leave out all the others involved – Wågåmo and the municipalities of Sel and Lom – in their way of trying to find rhetorical points. It's like I said in my post, 18 representatives who support an extension in the Otta Valley. There are 75 opposing representatives. What is a point for SV to say is that the concerns that the municipality of Skåk has with respect to the income side, it shares SV, but it believes we have to resolve through the annual budgets, where a permission allows money to secure a good municipal economy – not through power development.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1276	I should like to congratulate the case rapporteur, Mr Langeland, on the hard work he has done for the vision he stands for. He never conceals what he means, and I appreciate it. Now it's like I've been working in the tourism industry all my life, and I've never seen that there's been any problem for tourism that we have increased power in this country. I can only mention that when one passes Hallingdal and gets over Hardangervidda, there are 27 power plants on the road, and it doesn't seem that tourism has suffered from it. Moreover, we should be aware that if we're going to replace a case like Upper Otta with windmills, for example, we're talking about 800 pieces of 60 meters. It's very difficult things and serious natural interventions. These are things that at least I put a big question mark on. But what's my question to Hallgeir Langeland is: Isn't it Hallgeir Langeland that it's okay that we build out, when we can protect against accepting coal power? So we're going to spend over 100 million. kr, granted over our budget, to clean up the watercourses for what this coal-based force is transferring to this country. So we're one of the countries in the world that have the cleanest energy consumption. That's what we should market to the tourists in the world that they could come and look at, instead of making it negative. Does Hallgeir Langeland think it's OK that we still import coal power instead of making more pure hydropower?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1285	The representative Johnsen from the Right continues in the same street as the Progress Party started on, and in part the Workers' Party was in – that is, the coal-fired comrades, whom one would like to call them. There are those who don't want to be involved in any measures to do something about the growth in consumption. These are the three parts that are central to this room and that have multiples, among other things. The representative Johnsen from the Right is involved in pressing the somewhat daunting central government to get rid of the measures this government needs to have to take to dampen the growth. So the challenge of this isn't at SV at all. It lies at the hands of the three parties that are still hanging away in important energy and environmental matters. There is the main problem in this matter. The representative Johnsen knows that too, for this game he can already, from other parts of Norway. So until this thing with windmills that are constantly being pulled out. Now I don't know if hotel director Johnsen is worried that there will be wind farm near the hotel on Sola beach. If that's the case, I think he'll take that concern quite calmly. Obviously, it doesn't fit in with windmills all over the place. It's quite obvious. I've never said, and I'm never going to say, that one should cover this consumption with windmills. On the contrary, I have repeatedly said here today that we must dampen the growth. We need to ensure that we have measures that reduce growth, and then we need to create a chain of action on it. Then windmills can be a tiny small part, but not as big as Jan Johnsen is trying to make it into a laughing position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1293	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1296	In 1993, the Workers' Party proposed to protect closer to 2/3 of the Otta watercourse. It got a majority at that time. Today we go in to open up to the development of approx. half of what the developers have applied for – around 540 GWh. It remains to be seen whether it gets a majority today. The working party is in favour of a reduced but nevertheless significant extension. It's a well-known thing that we're going towards a period where we're going to use more power in Norway than what we produce. There's a big imbalance in what's called the force balance. So that's the way any expansion helps to improve that situation. However, the force balance is not a very high point in this context. In Norway we use approx. 116 billion kWh a year. A full expansion would be given at the base of 1 billion kWh and a half expansion slightly more than half a billion kWh. But, after all, half expansion ensures the power of all households in a medium-sized city for the future – the purest power available. Half the development can provide the public offer such as schools, old-age homes, public offices, etc. with electricity in 10 medium-sized municipalities forever. To illustrate the size, we could say it's the size of the Alta power plant, which is a familiar concept for most people. What has been important for the Workers' Party is that this project provides a significant amount of power and that it will be implemented with very modest natural interventions. No new ponds shall be built, no new rivers shall be affected. All six disputed rivers, including the so-called Nordtransfer, have been withdrawn from the Arbeiderpartei project recommending. Another important aspect is power lines and lines, which involve a significant natural intervention in any development. This has also been one of the most controversial issues in the issue of the development of Upper Otta. By reducing the development project down to approx. 540 GWh reduces the need for large masts and power holes. Upland power has already outlined possible expansions within the Workers' Party's proposals to avoid grid lines being set up in the mountains. It is important to bear in mind that the proposed option required the construction of new power holes with very large masts to be introduced into the mountain. In the opinion of many researchers, this would have given rise to serious problems in relation to the wild reindeer tribe. There is always disagreement among researchers on such questions. What is certain, at least, is that at the Workers' Party configuration, we reduce the need for new power holes and large masts and thus also reduce the problem in relation to the wild rain trunk. High mountain and watercourse nature is a resource it is important to manage properly. The Labour Party believes that what we are proposing is completely sound in relation to taking care of nature, while taking into account other considerations. In fact, the organisation Vern Obere Otta in the Stortinget case papers provides the basis for the treatment, recommends such an approach The Workers' Party today proposes, precisely because it does not involve significant natural interference. At the same time, there are several arguments in favour of an extension in Upper Otta. I'll mention someone. If we had said no to any expansion in Upper Otta, we would in reality say no to any further expansion of hydropower in Norway. There is no doubt that hydropower is the purest form of energy. Hydropower has and will always make a significant contribution to the creation of value in society, not to say that hydropower has been the very foundation of value creation in Norway. We still have some places where the natural resource of hydropower can be exploited without major conflicts with nature in the context of new developments. Saying the Storting today no to any expansion in Upper Otta, there is great reason to believe that it will be difficult to implement other projects of its own. Everything we do has consequences. If we're not building up new hydropower, power has to be picked up from other sources, and it's imported coal power. Of course, it also has consequences to expand, but we believe that in this case it can be done in such a way that both considerations are taken care of. The half of the expansion in Upper Otta can in many ways be seen in the same class as what we call the upgrading of old power plants. It is watered in an existing pond to be exploited and it shall not affect the rivers and the north transmission. We open to produce electricity from a pond where there is already stored water. Also, in the case of so-called upgrading projects, we have a significant power potential in Norway. The environmental movement is also very concerned about this, and it is important for us to take advantage of the opportunity to get us more clean energy, more electricity, out of already existing power plants. If we are to retain the knowledge and competence of power development, it is necessary to carry out a mission to the business community that is responsible for this. The question of power and energy will become an increasingly topical question as we approach increasing deficits. We must be able to offer the part of the industry that produces generators and other necessary equipment for power generation, missions that can ensure that professional environments are maintained in Norway. It will benefit us when, in the future, we need to secure energy in other ways than through further hydroelectric expansion. There has been a strong sense in the local population in the area. That is absolutely understandable. The region is so lucky to have very beautiful and very large natural areas. At the same time, the region needs sore economic development and income. There is no doubt that expansion will make a significant contribution both to employment and to income to the municipality of Skåk. In some, it was a great disappointment when the half-extension decision was made in the Workers' Party group. But I have to be allowed to say that the Workers' Party has actually been committed to an expansion, a significant expansion. Even half an extension will provide large income to the municipality of Skåk in the form of property taxes, etc., and it needs the municipality. The debate on the expansion of Upper Otta has made us painfully aware of at least two things: we need more and more power in a modern society, and we have less and less nature to pick it up from. In the proposal that the Labour Party is launching today, we are both uniting these relationships. We get a big expansion that goes a little bit at the expense of nature. I see that during the weekend there have been heavy advertising spots on TV where so-called celebrities warn against any expansion. I don't know how these acquaintances live, or whether they have cabins, and I don't care much about it either, but I've noticed that a number of celebrities stand up and show us their new cabins, or castles, as many call it. Do these so-called senses think that the current they use for heating cables and outdoor lights and other electrical ‘leamics’ is produced inside the contact on the wall? I have no fasitant response to what is most valuable, power for all good purposes or pristine watercourses, but I believe that by voting in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal, both reasons are united. Today’s society requires more power, and the generations of the future need untouched watercourses — a difficult choice. By voting for the Labour Party proposal, both win. Finally, I will address the suggestions made by the Workers' Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1359	Bent Hegna has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1364	The Labour Party's proposal and to the extent that part of the article is neither bird nor fish, but rather something in the middle. But this is also quite typical of the Workers' Party. I registered that 14 days ago Grete Knudsen was out in the media and wanted a postponement of the Upper Otta case until after the election. Now it's not like it's going to change in the actual conditions after the election, but it's probably more like internal medicine for the Workers' Party. That is the very problem for the party: one must take account of one's own protest industry internally in the party. I wonder why the Workers' Party wants to outrun local democracy and regional development. But my question to the representative Hegna is whether the proposal for semi-furnishment is also a signal in the future that if they apply for development projects, they will be halved in their wishes. Is this also a recent internal victory for the AUF before, hopefully, the construction of gas power plants is under way?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1373	The representative claimed that this was neither bird nor fish. Well, that's exactly what it is, it's actually both bird and fish, and it's more pure energy – and we need that. There is every reason to take the problems in the force balance in Norway seriously. We can get into big problems. But the issue of expansion in Upper Otta is not a question in relation to the power balance. This is a question primarily for exploiting a watercourse, exploiting the energy lying there, because it can be done without affecting large natural areas, and it needs Skåk, it needs the area. So, unlike the Progress Party, the Workers' Party also wants to try to take care of the considerations of nature and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1378	This is a sad day, and it's hard to hear the representative Hegna take the action of Vern Obere Otta now to the income of the Workers' Party's proposal here today. So in the Workers' Party they are willing to destroy something of the last thing we have of an unspoiled nature to cover only two months' increase in power consumption, and Upper Otta is not stopping the import of coal power at all. How will the representative Hegna describe the environmental profile of the Workers' Party after the expansion of Upper Otta? The Workers' Party went in to expand the area of the Regional Field of Eastern Europe. The working party selected the least environmentally friendly option for Lofast. The working party says no to the CO2 tax and yes to gas power before the quota trading system is in place, so it has no solution to how Norway will comply with the Kyoto Protocol. The working party has opposed increased investment in alternative energy, saying no to an increase in the electricity charge and no to another one, and last week the party incredibly rejected a separate environmental regulation for the forest management. The working party also said no to a separate flight seat fee, which contributes to a significant increase in CO2 emissions. What is left of the Worker Party's environmental profile? And I also have to ask the representative Hegna if he can mention a single environmental issue the Workers' Party has entered into this period, and I would also like to have a list of the environmental issues that the Workers' Party has got through.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1387	I assume that the representative Rise has read the papers that Stortinget has received for treatment. In the big message, it is black on white that the action Vern Obere Otta recommends the option that the Workers' Party is in favour of. Twice in the hearing that the committee had, it was said from the Vern Obere Otta action that this option is a good alternative. We can only relate to the papers we receive and what we hear through hearings. And that's what we've heard. The long list of bad environmental things that Rise mentioned – I can't go into everybody, but I might remind you that in the case of Lofast, the Christian People's Party went into the same thing as the Workers' Party. Of good environmental things – yes, I perceive that the construction of gas power plants is a good environmental issue. The alternatives are worse. The alternative to gas power is the import of coal power. The alternative to expansion in Upper Otta is the import of coal power. I believe that now that we can get such a big expansion in Upper Otta while protecting all the beautiful rivers, that's a good environmental thing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1394	Now it's like we haven't had a vote yet, and I get to say as others have said from this pulpit: It's hope in hanging strings. I have a question for the representative Hegna: Is it absolutely impossible for the Workers' Party to support the Right's proposal for an extension of approx. 700 GWh?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1401	Taking up the debate on 700 GWh or 550 GWh, in this context, I think it almost makes no sense. 150 GWh from time to time means very little in terms of value creation in the region, in terms of quantities of power produced. Undoubtedly, if we are going to go into the 700 option to the Right, it affects watercourses more than what the Workers' Party has landed on. Just for the sake of river and watercourse nature, the 550 option is the best option. And I'm grateful for what I read in the newspapers today, that the Right will also support it when it comes up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1406	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1409	Today, when we are dealing with the development of the Upper Otta watercourse, it is also important to have some thoughts and ideas about Norway as an energy nation, and not just look at the development of the Upper Otta watercourse in isolation. The consumption of electricity in this country has increased in line with our standard of living and the creation of value in society. This makes someone, especially within the environment movement, think that we are a nation that wastes energy, especially within the household. This is completely wrong. A 1994-95 statistics from the NVE that addresses household energy use, adjusted to the same climate, show that in Norway we have less energy consumption per year. household than e.g. Sweden, Denmark, the United States and the EU. Norway is a major power in Europe in terms of energy. The Progress Party believes that Norway as an energy nation should meet its own power needs, and then the construction of gas power plants and the use of hydropower will be absolutely necessary. Today we are exporting huge amounts of gas to Europe. In the view of the Progress Party, it would be much more sensible to convert some of the gas into power in Norway instead of exporting gas to, for example, The Netherlands, then to import the power back. Here we will have considerable energy losses in transport, and we will not gain by building and operating the works ourselves, which could take care of Norwegian interests and further develop the Norwegian industry. In addition, the planned thermal and gas power plants in Norway will have a much higher efficiency than the old ones in e.g. The Netherlands. Having said that, I would like to remind you that last year, all the parties outside the Advance Party voted in favour of a proposal from the Advance Party on the construction of thermal power plants in the Forest, which would have given a power production of at least 5 TWh per. years. We in the Progress Party have recorded that the Government is doing almost anything to train the construction of gas power plants, and that the State's pollution control body, SFT, is demanding completely impossible emission requirements to Natural Power, so that the construction of gas power plants becomes commercially unprofitable. When the Government approaches an expansion of Norwegian hydropower and against gas power, it is the same as saying yes to Danish coal power or Swedish nuclear power. We export large amounts of oil and gas. At the same time, we need to import highly polluting Danish coal power or Swedish nuclear power through the cables and connections that were primarily built to increase Norwegian export of hydropower. If we do an experiment and add the EU and Norway, we have 30 pst in Norway. of hydropower production, 45 pst. of the gas reserves and 75 pst. of the oil reserves, and we only make up 1 pst. by the population. The problem of Norwegian energy policy is not a lack of energy. On the other hand, lack of political decisions is the challenge. In the media debate that has been around the expansion of the Upper Otta watercourse, it has been shown from some teams that an expansion will not have any or will have little purpose to cover our power deficit. The full extension of the Upper Otta watercourse gives about 1 TWh, which will amount to approx. a quarter of last year’s power shortage in this country. With the exception of possible future contributions from gas power plants, this hydropower project is one of very few individual projects with an annual production grant of more than 1 TWh. In this context, it is illustrative that the average production of projects in the current Total Watercourse Plan is 50 GWh. In other words, 20 to 40 new hydropower projects of this size will be needed each year to provide the same access as from Upper Otta. There are many other good reasons for a full expansion of the Upper Otta watercourse. An important reason will be the small interference that must be done in nature. Here, there is a possibility of a large build-up of power that is largely based on interventions already carried out and where existing hydropower plants can be exploited. Properly, water flow in the rivers Frøysa, Tora, Vulu and Glitra will be reduced, water flow in the High Fosses will be greatly reduced, water flow in Pollfoss and Dønfossen will be reduced, and power cables will have to be stretched. But there are relatively small interventions in relation to the amount of power and the value creation that a full expansion will bring. I would also like to highlight the assessments made by the NVE, which point out that the total nature interference will be relatively moderate in relation to the amount of force that will be produced. Another additional effect will be that a full expansion will also be flood-proof throughout the Otta watercourse. For Skåk Municipality a full expansion of Upper Otta will have great significance. A full extension will give approx. 20 million. kr in annual income. Full development will provide seven to eight permanent jobs, and in a construction period of up to four years, 300 to 400 employees will have jobs in Skåk. The municipality will also serve the work of maintaining and repairing the power plant, which local businesses will be able to do. For us in the Progress Party, it is important to focus on local self-government – it is those who have the shoe on who know where it prints, and Skåk Municipality has been committed to full expansion. It will therefore be very important that we today provide support for the full development of Upper Otta, so that we do not see another peripheral municipality die silently because it is not allowed to develop its own resources, but is run over by the big community, which will roll over in free of charge at the expense of its inhabitants. I must say that I am quite disappointed with the Workers' Party and, in particular, with the government parties, which do not take account of local democracy at all, but are overcoming democracy and local politicians in this matter. From the opponents of power development, it's been focused on travel life and Upper Otta. I would therefore like to show that Skåk Travel Life Team at a meeting on 10 May went in to support a full expansion of Upper Otta. We can't see that an extension with so little interference in nature will damage the travel life, on the contrary, all the experience from other development municipalities suggests that travel life will increase to an extent after the expansion is completed. The biggest problem for travel life in Skåk today is the fear propaganda from nature protection organisations and their political allies, who are crying out loud about dry rivers and ruined nature. What is a fact is that an expansion of Upper Otta should be welcomed, because hydropower is clean energy and a renewable resource, and because with the Upper Otta development, we save the environment for 800,000 tonnes of CO2 each year, which is also a significant reduction if we look it up against the Kyoto agreement. Now, in the Progress Party, we have a relaxed attitude to the climate hysteria that is behind the Kyoto agreement. But I think it's quite amazing that the Workers' Party, Right, SV and the government parties, the same batches that have fought with beaks and claws to reduce the amount of CO2 emissions, almost cost what it will cost for Norway, now do not use the ability to build up clean hydropower in Upper Otta to save 800,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions – emissions for which these parties have such enormous fears. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party, which is in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1440	Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1445	It is really uninteresting what the Progress Party believes about the development of the Otta, because it is clear that the Workers' Party and the Right will now gather in half, thus protecting vital parts of the Upper Otta watercourse. The Progress Party has thus been isolated in this case. The secrecy of subsidiary voting has become the new sport of the Progress Party after their success in the opera batten last year. No one has been more concerned about creating no political disdain than the Progress Party. But that's exactly what you do when you run this game with secrecy, you run a game where you don't want anything clear before you get to the staging room. It's precisely when you build up a political contempt. The fact that the Progress Party is not concerned with the environment is no news, but what is quite remarkable in this Chamber and in this case, is that the representative Korsberg and also the Progress Party in their comments in the vote show such a warm concern for the climate problems. They argue that CO2 emissions will result in 800000 tonnes of extra CO2 if you do not deploy Upper Otta. The progress party has previously believed that the greenhouse effect is environmental hysteria, and my question to the representative Korsberg is: Has the Progress Party also thrown itself at this environmental hysteria?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1454	The representative, Gjul, felt it was of no interest to us in the Advancement Party in this matter, since the Right has decided today. It is possible that it may be uninteresting for the Workers' Party what we mean, but at least I have registered that for those who live in Skåk and in the districts around Upper Otta, it is very interesting what we believe in the Advance Party. We have been given much credit for the attitude we have taken on the Upper Otta case, and I must remind the representative Gunn Karin Gjul that the Progress Party was the first party – possibly with the exception of SV – that decided in the Upper Otta case. On 25 February, the Group of the Progressive Alliance decided unanimously to support the full development of the Upper Eight. I think there are other parties in this room that have had much bigger problems deciding on this matter. I can only remind the representative, Gunn Karin Gjul, that today the Right Party has decided what to do. As far as climate policy is concerned, it is absolutely right that we have a very relaxed relationship with the hysteria that some have in relation to CO2 emissions and climate impact, but we note that there is a majority who want to follow this hysteria line, and we take that into account when we conduct our policy. And so here you had the opportunity to reduce by significant amounts of CO2 emissions, but I'm recording that the Workers' Party and a large majority don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1461	I note that the representative of Korsberg argues quite freshly for the full expansion of Upper Otta with the need to avoid the import of Swedish nuclear power. I wonder what time the representative of Korsberg began to worry about Swedish nuclear power. What time did that happen? And what time did he begin to worry about the import of what he called "strongly polluting Danish coal power"? The representative of Korsberg said that he has a relaxed relationship with the climate hysteria, but we know that the Progress Party has totally rejected the whole basis for one of the two internationally binding environmental conventions we have, namely the UNFCCC, which was followed by the Kyoto Protocol. What, then, is so worrying about Danish coal power? I also registered here that the Progress Party has received a lot of praise in the municipality of Skåk. Has there been a similar amount of boast in Lom municipality or in Weågå municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1470	As far as Swedish nuclear power is concerned, I would just like to point out what I said to the representative, Gjul, that we are recording that there is a majority who have a fear of both nuclear power and CO2 emissions. What is important to us is that conditions are put in place in Norway to further develop Norwegian industry. As I said in my post, I would like to show that if you add Norway and the EU, we have 30 pst. of hydropower production, we have 45 pst. of the gas reserves, we have 75 pst. of the oil reserves, and we make up 1 pst. by the population. And when you still have to import power and energy from other countries, it shows that you have a lack of political decisions as a challenge, not a lack of energy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1477	The most obvious thing in Korsberg’s posts was the total lack of perspective of destroying some of the most beautiful untouched nature we have in Norway, and he did not go into the balance between any increased power demand and such destruction of nature. At least the Labour Party and the majority in the Right have now been willing to do so. Then I must point out that it is rare to hear such an unprincipled speech from the Parliamentary Chair. Korsberg strongly argues for local self-government. So it comes from the party that just a week ago would liquidate the county election and transfer a series of tasks from the municipality and county to the central state. When you can then take the argument about local self-government out of the air, you do it – but that’s not a principle. So Korsberg argues that he is against Norway importing force, we should then say self-sufficient with force. But when was that a principle for the Advancement Party? That is, of course, what the opposing party argues for in all respects, namely that goods should move freely and that there should be maximum international free trade. Why in the world should we work on the ideas of the Progress Party on Norwegian self-sufficiency in power? Then he's against Swedish nuclear power. But the Progress Party is the only party that has repeatedly struggled with the idea of Norwegian nuclear power! Does this mean that Korsberg will now sign a coup d'état, as many others in this Chamber have done, against Swedish nuclear power and for the decommissioning of Swedish nuclear power stations? And then he's worried about Danish coal power. Why that, when heating up the globe nevertheless is just a problem that environmental hysterists have found, and that there is no reason to take seriously at all? At all: what is the point of principle in the view of the Progress Party? Does it exist at all, in addition to the fact that the Progress Party is for all the most environmentally damaging sources of power and for all the most environmentally friendly sources of power?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1504	The representative of Solheim spoke about the nature areas around Upper Otta being among the most beautiful in Norway. Then I am quite sure that the representative Solheim has not seen much of Norwegian nature, possibly the nature he has seen, who has passed by the car window when he has driven a car. I can inform you, sir. Solheim that I have traveled a lot in Norwegian nature. I also enjoy flying from Tromsø to Oslo twice a week. In fact, it sometimes happens that there is clarity all the way up and down, and then you really see the large areas of pristine nature we have here in Norway. But it's about moving away from the road, and you'll find that there's also a lot of nice untouched nature on the back of the mountains you see when you drive a car. It is clear that we care about local self-government, we have always cared about that in the Advancement Party. However, winding up the county council is simply to liquidate an additional bureaucracy – and we see no reason to keep it. I have noticed that there are more and more people who call for that. So, as I mentioned in the previous two lines, Norway is an energy nation. We should bet on being an energy nation, so that we can produce so much energy in this country that we can be self-sufficient and like to send gas down to Europe to replace Danish coal power. We have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1520	It's about 15 o'clock. At 15 a.m., the Minister for Foreign Affairs shall make a statement on the situation in Kosovo and in the region. The President will therefore propose that we now take a little break in this debate and that we call the next meeting at noon. 15th – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1539	As previously adopted, the matter listed on the supplementary agenda is now under consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1548	As a follow-up to the principles of a peace settlement of the Yugoslav authorities last Thursday, NATO military experts, with observers from Russia and Finland, have spent the weekend in meetings with Yugoslav officers. The aim is to establish a framework for the withdrawal of the Yugoslav forces and subsequent deployment of an international security force in Kosovo, the so-called KFOR. However, the parties have not yet been able to agree on an agreement on the conditions for the withdrawal of the Yugoslav forces. It may seem that the principles agreed on by Yugoslavia are being reversed. This is very regrettable and could jeopardize all the positive developments. So even if Yugoslavia has accepted the peace plan, it remains to be seen whether this will be followed up in action. All elements of the agreement will be subject to verification. Previous experience with the Yugoslav authorities, including: from Bosnia, unfortunately, has shown that one cannot take their promises for granted until they are actually implemented. NATO will therefore continue air operations until it is clear that the Yugoslav authorities fulfil their obligations. Despite the problems that have arisen, however, efforts have been made to find a political solution to the Kosovo conflict in a new and more positive path. On 3 June, the Serbian Parliament decided, by 136 votes to 74, to accept the ten principles of a peace settlement presented to Milosevic the day before by President Martti Ahtisaari and the Russian Balkan envoy Viktor Chernomyrdin. Only the Serbian radical party voted against accepting the principles, which are in line with the demands made by NATO, the G8 Group and the UN Secretary-General. The breakthrough comes as a result of the sustained and co-ordinated international press and NATO air operations. The consensus reached shows the importance of involving Russia in the work of getting Yugoslavia to accept a peaceful solution. The fact that President Ahtisaari and Viktor Chernomyrdin were able to present a proposal on which Russia and the West were united has clearly made an impression on the Yugoslav authorities. The work carried out by these two and by Minister of State Strobe Talbott on behalf of the EU, Russia and the United States, respectively, deserves great recognition. However, there is still uncertainty about the role of Russia due to internal disagreement about the plan accepted by the authorities of Yugoslavia. Russia participated in the negotiations through Viktor Chernomyrdin, who is President Yeltsin's envoy, but other Russian politicians and military leaders believe he went too far in his acceptance of the agreed principles. The basis for a political solution for Kosovo requires inter alia: immediate stop in fighting actions and withdrawal of Yugoslav military and paramilitary forces, as well as police, from Kosovo. An international security force and an international civil presence shall be established in Kosovo, subject to mandate from the UN Security Council under Chapter VII of the Charter. The authorities of Yugoslavia have accepted that the international safety presence should have a significant NATO element and uniform command and control. As part of the civil presence, an international temporary administration for Kosovo will be established. Following the withdrawal, a limited number of Serbian forces shall be allowed, with the intention of several hundred, to return to Kosovo in order to secure the borders of Yugoslavia and Serbian religious and cultural monuments. These forces shall also mark and clear minefields. All refugees will be entitled to an unhindered and secure return under the supervision of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. A political process shall be initiated with a view to reaching agreement on an interim political framework built on the Rambouillet Agreement, including respect for the territorial integrity of Yugoslavia and the demilitarisation of the Kosovo Liberation Army, the UCK. This shall not, however, delay the work of building up a temporary administration in Kosovo. The rapid and safe return of refugees, as well as facilitating the deployment of the civil presence, will be a prerequisite for the rapid deployment of the international security force. An international police force in Kosovo must also be established as soon as possible. In the future, close contact with Kosovo Albanian political leaders will be particularly important. Last night I had a meeting with the head of the inter-political Kosovo Albanian interim government and the UCK political leader, Hashim Thaci, who welcomes the agreement on the G8 principles, even though he has strong doubts as to whether President Milosevic will comply with them. Thaci did not conceal that the demilitarisation of the UCK is a difficult issue, but confirmed that the UCK would respect the principles of the Rambouillet Agreement. However, he showed that this must be done through close cooperation with the international community and will necessarily take some time. It will be a prerequisite for NATO forces to be present in Kosovo in order for this to be realised. Although independence is still the goal, UCK has realised that this has to be temporarily disregarded for what can be achieved at the present time. For the peace plan to succeed, it is important that the various political groupings of the Kosovar Albanians stand together so that we have an effective interim regime in place. This will lay the basis for a future democratic Kosovo. Thaci also says that he is open to cooperation with Ibrahim Rugova and other political leaders. In implementing the principles of the Kosovo Agreement, it is important to continue our support for the democratisation process in Yugoslavia. Milosevic and his supporters have accused the leaders of the democratic opposition of being traitors because of their criticism of the regime's rule. There are examples of both opposition politicians and human rights activists and journalists being threatened and killed in one case. A solution to the conflict in Kosovo could lead to Milosevic tightening the grip on the Serbian opposition environment. This must be counteracted. The Milosevic regime's attempt to undermine and remove Montenegro's legally elected and western-oriented President, Milo Djukanovic, is still ongoing. The constitutional conflict between the two sub- republics of Yugoslavia exists. The pressure against ethnic minorities in Yugoslavia is still very strong. Together with four other prominent representatives of the Yugoslav authorities, President Milosevic was charged with war crimes and crimes against humanity at the UN Criminal Court of the former Yugoslavia on 27 May this year. At the same time, the Court issued an application for arrest which is binding on all Member States and Switzerland. However, the formal position of Milosevic as head of state is not affected by this. The members of the Alliance are united behind NATO's actions. The result achieved means that the international press appears to be producing and confirms that NATO’s strategy has been correct. This has taken time, but the use of military power has been a necessary prerequisite to arrive at the political solution that is now on the table. It is of general importance that KFOR be deployed as quickly as possible. This may necessarily be done on the basis of a UN Security Council resolution giving the force a mandate under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. Discussions on the drafting of such a resolution are now under way between the G8 countries. Should the work on the adoption of a Security Council resolution be withdrawn, it is fully possible that the force should withdraw on the basis of an agreement with the Yugoslav authorities. It is essential to avoid a vacuum of power. The strength will have important tasks and shall include, inter alia: prevent new conflicts between the parties to the conflict, enforce the ceasefire, monitor the demilitarisation of the UCK guerrilla and the withdrawal of the Serb forces, and create a safe environment for refugees to return to their homes. To avoid unintended incidents, KFOR will not move into any part of Kosovo until the Yugoslav forces have been withdrawn. However, as mentioned above, it is essential that the international security force is ready to quickly fill the void after the Yugoslav forces. This shall prevent the Kosovo Albanians from exploiting this and taking ground control or carrying out provocations against the Serbian forces when they withdraw. The demilitarisation of the UCK will be a testament to the will of the Kosovar Albanians. The Alliance will be a key element of KFOR, which will be under a coherent control and command structure with the NATO Council as the top political governing body. It is proposed that the force should consist of about 50,000 soldiers. Awareness of the security of the soldiers will be an important part of the planning. Russian participation in power needs to be clarified through its own agreements. The strength is likely to be organised in four —five responsibilities, where different contributing countries will be in charge, as for SFOR in Bosnia. This breakdown is not yet fully completed. However, it is necessary to avoid the deployment of responsibilities as a step towards a division of the province. NATO will continue its operations until there is evidence that an agreed withdrawal of the Serbian forces has begun. The alliance stands united behind the view that it is still important to maintain a military pressure on President Milosevic until it is clear that this time he lives up to his obligations. NATO reduced the volume of air operations both to signal the willingness to come up with a solution and to show that the Serbian population could quickly experience positive effects. The problems associated with a military implementation agreement increase the activity again. The advice of NATO will adopt the KFOR operational plan and the deployment activation order at short notice. Norway has taken its share of the burden under the alliance's efforts to create peace and stability in the Balkans. It is important, in the government's view, that Norway remains united with our allies in the crucial phase we are now in. In view of the recruitment situation here at home in the field of international peace operations, we will hardly be able to maintain our commitment to SFOR in Bosnia at today's level, while contributing significantly to KFOR in Kosovo. Therefore, in close cooperation with NATO military authorities, careful consideration will be given to where, overall, a Norwegian contribution will be most beneficial. There is a broad consensus that it is important to avoid weakening the peace process in Bosnia. The Government provides a clarification regarding a significant Norwegian contribution to KFOR during the next few days. Of course, we will discuss this with the bodies of Storting. The Kosovo crisis has led to great humanitarian suffering. It will continue to be an important task for the international community to continue its efforts to reduce them. In addition, the implementation of the civil components of the Peace Agreement will involve extensive tasks and require the deployment of huge resources by international society. Kosovo really needs to be rebuilt from the bottom of, both in terms of political and administrative functions and, to a large extent, in terms of housing and other infrastructure. There are also major tasks related to the reconstruction of the rest of Yugoslavia and the region as a whole. The organisation of the civil implementation of the peace plan has not yet been clarified. The question of which organisation should have overall responsibility for implementation and how to distribute the individual tasks is now being discussed by the G8 countries. It is in any case clear that it will be more than enough to deal with for all the international organisations involved. Both the UN, the OSCE and the EU as well as the international financial institutions will have key tasks. A clear division of responsibilities and close and effective coordination between the different actors will be important. As Chairman of the OSCE, I have naturally been concerned with the tasks that the OSCE should perform, and have taken the initiative in the comprehensive planning of the OSCE's contribution to the civil implementation of the peace plan. The OSCE thus has a comprehensive plan for the reconstruction of the political and administrative institutions in Kosovo, for democratisation and monitoring of respect for human rights and for the preparation and implementation of elections. In addition, the OSCE has put in place detailed plans for the establishment of an international police force in Kosovo and can undertake this task if the outcome of the G8 discussions is reached. Such an operation will be very complex and resource-intensive. The OSCE plans set up a police force of 1,500 international and 2,500 local police officers. Norway is set to participate in this force. I have informed the G8 countries about what tasks the OSCE will be able to undertake. Once security and stability are established, we can focus on the enormous reconstruction tasks ahead of us. In order to deal with them, a temporary international administration in Kosovo must be established during a transitional period. Neither in villages and municipalities in Kosovo nor in the provincial capital of Pristina are there political and administrative structures that can be continued, even if some elements are present. It is therefore necessary to work in parallel at both local and central level in order to restore the necessary interaction between local and central authorities. Following an initial transitional period, elections must be held under international supervision. Before that, however, the population has to be restored. This in itself is a significant task, since all refugees have been deprived of identification papers and the population registers in Kosovo must have been partially destroyed. There's a bunch of problems that need to be solved. Health and social institutions need to be upgraded, the education system needs to be revised, telecommunications, roads and railways need to be remedied, and water and power supply needs to be restored. This is just a small sample of the problems we're facing. We must support local politicians and local government from the very beginning, so that they are involved in the work and take responsibility for their own future. The EU, in cooperation with the World Bank, will take the lead in the comprehensive rehabilitation and reconstruction of housing and other infrastructure, as well as other tasks requiring substantial funding. It is already under way to assess how best to coordinate this. The Government is committed to making a significant contribution to the civil implementation of the peace plan, both through personnel and financial support. In this context, reference is made to the review in St.prp. No 88 for 1998-99, which was submitted last Friday. The humanitarian situation is still very serious as mentioned. The UNHCR estimates that there is a total of approximately 780 000 refugees outside the borders of Kosovo. These need protection and humanitarian aid where they are now. When the refugees return, they will also need immediate assistance for the reconstruction of houses, agriculture, infrastructure and a number of basic services. In addition, the UN humanitarian coordinator, who led the first UN mission to Kosovo, estimates that there are more than half a million internally displaced persons with acute needs for food, medical assistance and clean water. The return of refugees will depend, above all, on the security conditions in Kosovo. The task of the international community will be to facilitate as fast a return as possible. We should not ignore the fact that the return from neighbouring areas can be at least as difficult to deal with as the refugee flow out of Kosovo was. In order to facilitate the objective of rapid and unhindered return of refugees, there will be an immediate need to establish temporary political and administrative structures, a functioning judiciary and a large international police force to ensure safe and stable conditions for the population. Close cooperation with the International Security Force will be necessary. The UNHCR is responsible for the organisation of refugee repatriation and is now in charge of repatriation plans. At the same time, the plans for continuing humanitarian programmes in the asylum countries continue. What you see clearly now is that the needs for traditional emergency aid will be high for a long time in the future. The UN is working on a plan to prepare winter, in addition to preparing an appeal to meet the needs for humanitarian assistance in the second half of the year. The government will contribute to this. The humanitarian needs within Kosovo are still unsolved, but it will be a priority task to quickly bring aid missions to all those in need. Norwegian non-governmental organisations established in Kosovo before March of this year are ready to re-enter, and assistance will be provided through them, apart from through the UN and the Red Cross. The UNHCR will coordinate humanitarian work. In order to facilitate return and rehabilitation, it will be necessary at an early stage to identify and remove the scope of anti-personnel mines, mine traps and unexploited bombs. Mining is one of the humanitarian measures that need to be taken quickly. Here, Norway has considerable expertise that we can offer. The 225 million. As the Stortinget has already granted humanitarian aid in the area, it is mainly channelled through the UN and Norwegian non-governmental organisations. With St.prp. No 88 for 1998-99, on humanitarian aid in connection with the Kosovo crisis, which is proposed for an additional 350 million. NOK, the total Norwegian contribution will amount to SEK 575 million. kr. In addition, the costs of the 6,000 refugees in Norway are incurred. The government emphasises the ability to mobilise funds for humanitarian actions that, in addition to responding to immediate needs, also have a long-term perspective. When a peace settlement is in place, we must look at the humanitarian needs not only in Kosovo and neighbouring countries, but also throughout the rest of Yugoslavia. It is obvious that the need for reconstruction will be high, but there is reason to believe that the short-term humanitarian needs will also be comprehensive. From the Norwegian side, throughout the conflict, we have also given humanitarian aid to the Serbian population and the Serbian refugees from Croatia and Bosnia via the Yugoslav Red Cross. We will continue to do this, both via the Red Cross and other help organisations. It is important that the Serbian population also see concrete, positive results from the peace plan in place. Even after a political solution for Kosovo is in place, the threat to regional stability will be present. Long-term stability measures will therefore need to be implemented to address the negative regional impacts of the Kosovo crisis. With this in mind, the German EU Presidency has taken the initiative of the so-called Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe. In addition to the countries of the region, the United States, Russia, all EU countries, the OSCE Presidency and the Council of Europe will participate in the Stability Pact. It has been suggested that Yugoslavia should be able to participate when it has complied with international society’s requirements. From the Norwegian side, we have stated that it is not possible to achieve long-term security and stability in the Balkans without the involvement of Yugoslavia in a broad political, economic and social process. The Pact aims to promote good and close relations between the countries of the region through a network of good neighbourly agreements. It establishes a Regional Cooperation Forum where participants will discuss actions to strengthen the South-Eastern European countries in their efforts to promote peace, democracy, respect for human rights, economic growth and increased security and stability. The OSCE will be the political superstructure of the Pact, while the EU will play a leading role in its practical implementation, in cooperation with the OSCE. The signing of the Stability Pact is scheduled for a Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting in Cologne on 10 June. Norway, the EU and the international financial institutions have helped the countries of the region financially. From the Norwegian side, we have provided budgetary support to Albania, Macedonia and Montenegro, partly via the World Bank and partly directly. Further contributions will be needed at an initial regional grant conference scheduled as soon as possible after the adoption of the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe. NATO is also working on measures aimed at avoiding destabilisation in the region. At the NATO summit in Washington, there was full agreement on the need to start broader and longer-term cooperation with neighbouring countries in the region. It was therefore proposed to set up a dedicated consultation forum with the neighbouring country of Yugoslavia. Specific cooperation actions based on NATO arrangements have already been initiated with other partner countries. NATO initiatives need further concreteisation and need to be seen in the context of other regional stabilisation measures. An agreement for the withdrawal of Serbian forces has not yet been reached, as I said at the outset. However, there is hope that peace can be achieved in Kosovo. In that case, the refugees will soon be able to return home and catch up with the reconstruction work. Here they deserve our full support. We have seen that the international community's relationship with the Yugoslavian authorities has worked, and it may now appear that they are in the process of realizing that the only way forward is through a political solution for Kosovo. We must not lose sight of the fact that major challenges remain. There is considerable uncertainty about the implementation of the agreed principles. The difficulty of reaching agreement on the conditions for the Yugoslav withdrawal fully confirms this. It is now important that the consensus on the basic principles does not crumble. I am in close contact with my colleagues from the G8 countries on these issues, and will also travel to New York tomorrow to discuss the situation with the UN Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1647	The President will now open up one representative from each batch group to an entry, limited to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1650	I will once again give tribute to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, not only because he comes to the Storting and gives thorough explanations, but also because he and the Government have dealt with this situation in the way they have done from the beginning to the moment. Because the situation is so unclear, it is perhaps best that we do not comment on it so much, but leave it to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I think he presented the situation in a good way that at least covers the view that I and the Workers' Party have, and it shows above all that it is necessary to continue to stand together both here in the country and in the NATO circle. We now see that military results have been used to achieve the political objectives through diplomacy. Although the situation is unclear and there was a breach last night, we must be able to say that there is a positive development, as the Foreign Minister also explained. What is particularly gratifying is that in the agreement reached, international demands have been met: the end of the violence and the safe return of refugees, which have been the most indispensable demands of NATO and international society. It is also positive that the agreement provides a central place for the United Nations. Of course, it is also positive that the G8 countries now sit together to see if you can solve the problems and move on as quickly as possible. When it turns out that the technical implementation of the agreement takes time, there is no time for the problem, with the tragedy continuing, and the additional time now coming will require new victims. Of course, what is happening in this period, whether time is used to eliminate evidence of assault and to continue ethnic cleansing, will also be assessed by the United Nations Criminal Court. I would like to say that the Workers' Party supports Norway's participation in the International Peace Force. Norway should also contribute in other areas, for example: in the planned international police force, and our efforts should be limited not only to Kosovo but also to the area of others. We are facing the greatest post-war reconstruction action. I think it is important that the whole area be covered by this reconstruction, including Serbia. If you make the Serbian people losers in this war, you lay the foundation for new wars. It must be Milosevic and his regime that will be the losers here. I am convinced that if peace comes, Milosevic will not be able to hold on to power for very long. It has been the war that has been his base of power. It's the one that's made it possible for him to put the people behind him. I am therefore pleased that Yugoslavia is covered by the Stability Pact for South-East Europe proposed by Germany, once Yugoslavia has fulfilled the international community's requirements. I think it's important to base it on the work that hopefully can start pretty fast. We are all hoping that what has happened will lead to a swift end to the acts of violence, and that peace will come.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1661	I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for this presentation. I would like us to be able to start this debate by discussing, in conclusion, what the Foreign Minister was concerned with, namely the reconstruction of civil society, the implementation of the civil tasks of the peace agreement, the refugee problem and the development of democracy in Kosovo. Unfortunately, the situation is such that instead we seem to be moving towards a worrying situation, and where Yugoslavia, as the Foreign Minister mentioned at the outset, seems to be reversing the principles agreed upon. Unfortunately, this confirms something that has been repeatedly seen in this conflict, namely that it is not possible to rely on the promises made by a sheep from Milosevic. Nevertheless, I too – like the representative, Mr Jagland – would like to point out that there are positive features, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also pointed out. We have got the political process into a new and more positive path, and throughout this process we have clearly maintained this important contact with Russia, which is a crucial prerequisite – I believe – for stability in the area, also in view of what will happen afterwards, once a peace agreement has been concluded. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also referred to the fact that NATO members are united behind the strategy for the war in Kosovo. It's vital. I think it has to be said, even though one has not fully achieved the goals, that the results we have now seen have shown that the Alliance strategy has brought closer to the goal. From this point of view, the Government should be able to expect continued broad support for the necessary assessments, actions and choices. In this way the positive and clear signals from the Workers' Party by its leader and parliamentary leader were very valuable. Of course, significant contributions are needed to implement both the military and the civil part of a peace agreement, but I think these are issues to which we are given the opportunity to come back when such a peace agreement is finally established. And I'm assuming that this is hopefully not that far away. I also assume that the contributions needed in this context, both of an economic nature and otherwise in the case of relief measures, will receive broad support from the United Kingdom, and that the Government can therefore already actively participate in all the negotiations, talks and consultations that are now taking place in order to prepare for the reconstruction of civil and democratic society in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1672	The statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs requires, as many have pointed out, the establishment of a peace agreement. It was basically set up, I think, under that condition, so we get hope that it hits. And in case it hits, I think what we're going to notice in the first place is that it strikes because the United States has once again extended a helping hand to Europe and has settled it. The second thing we should notice is that this action has taken place without a valid decision in the UN Security Council. It's very important to be aware of. I don't really disagree with any of what the Foreign Minister said, but I only have some comments. It is this constant reference to Russia that it is important to keep in touch with Russia, etc., and that is of course important. But one must be aware that the situation in Russia is so uncertain, and that the mood in the national assembly there is so hostile to the West, that there is nothing essential to build on, the relationship with Russia. It's so uncertain that I don't think we should put too much emphasis on that side. One big delegation was recently in Ukraine and noticed the strong anti-NATO flows moving there. A moment in the Foreign Minister's presentation was the respect for the territorial integrity of Yugoslavia, the disarmament of the gerilla and the reference to the condition of the Rambouillet Agreement. Yes, some have now happened since this Rambouillet agreement was concluded. After all, it is only after the worst acts of the Yugoslav government have taken place, and it is only after this time that Milosevic has been brought before the International Court of Human Rights. And we're going to notice that it's just going to be approx. hundreds of thousands of Serbs left in Kosovo. Nevertheless, there is talk as if it is a pre-requisite for Kosovo’s inhabitants to earn protection obligations in the Serbian army and to pay taxes to this army. It really sounds crazy to build Kosovo's future on these conditions! Of course, we just have to accept that this is a scheme that is presented because of diplomatic and international developments. But that is totally unsustainable and unnatural, we also have to realize – we have so much healthy knowledge! Otherwise, in the case of relief work, we fully agree that the aid now needs to be put into the neighbourhoods. Elections must be held in Kosovo – that is quite clear. However, I can hardly understand that this election may have any particular interest if this country is still to be a province headed by Belgrade, and even worse with a president named Milosevic.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1684	At least we can now see that there is a hope that this comprehensive military campaign will come to an end and that it will be possible to envisage a peaceful future in Kosovo. In that case, it is an emphasis on how important it has been for the Western world, for the NATO Alliance, to stand together and send clear signals to Milosevic, and at the same time have the necessary will to carry out the campaign. It took time. There are 780,000 refugees outside Kosovo, I understand from the Foreign Minister's statement, and it really meant that we now had very little time to try to find a solution before winter. With such large quantities of refugees outside Kosovo and so little time to do so, it is clear that this will require enormous efforts from the outside world to reasonably bring the situation forward. Now we have to establish, as the Foreign Minister said, that we are not finished at all. What we're seeing now, where there are new problems, new conversations and new negotiations, maybe to gain more time, to get better terms or simply to hide tracks, is a pattern we've seen before. We should not forget that Milosevic's history is a story of negotiations built on lies, deceptions, postponements and ever-new ideas. This makes us have a bad time in the future. That is why I think it is very important that the military pressure is still on Milosevic until a satisfactory solution has been found – almost to the last detail. So it's still necessary to look at the possibility that this doesn't work, and at the same time you take into account the need to do it if it doesn't work. If we now find ourselves in a situation where consensus is not achieved, but where NATO is still set on deferrals, yes, then Milosevic has been given cards he should not have received. It's too early to sum up, but there may be questions if there was enough pressure on this campaign at an early stage. The pressure has now come, and it is a pressure that, hopefully, has led to a result. I am very pleased that it is so clear that the Alliance should be a supporting element in the KFOR. I think that's the whole premise that the Albanian people get the necessary confidence to move home again and dare to bet on a future there. I think it's important that Russia has been on the team and is on the team. I do not entirely share Mr Gundersen's very negative attitude towards Russia. I think we'll see in our eyes that there's a fundamental community of interest between the West and Russia, and that it's given off the results it has. The fact that there are significant counterpowers is quite another thing. But it is interesting to note that, for example: The Duma and the Federation Council react somewhat differently to NATO, and there is hope. But that these are significant problems, there's no particular doubt about it. There are also problems related to the relationship with the Albanians, which now in a very difficult situation must also show the necessary restraint. At that point, I understand Fridtjof Frank Gundersen's assessments, because after so many assaults it takes a little bit to enable the different peoples to live together. We both know from East Slavonia and from Bosnia that it is not at all so that the peoples move together even if there is no war. So now there's a considerable amount of work ahead of us when it comes to building up. We've previously addressed a so-called Marshall aid, but the reality is that it's even more complicated than the Marshall aid, because it went into a developed Western European society, while here we start in many ways at a rather modest level. That's exactly why it's necessary to use the necessary funds, and we're going to be ready for that. At the same time, as the Foreign Minister said, it is more than enough for everyone to deal with, and it also lies in the scope of the challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1699	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough account of the situation in Kosovo, and there is reason to give the Government broad political support in the demanding work on a peaceful solution to the crisis. I record as positive that in Stortinget today there is such a broad support for this work. There are many who have crossed their fingers this weekend for an approved peace plan for Kosovo, and against this background the reports today came to an end in the negotiations as an anti-climate and disappointing downturn. I interpret the Foreign Minister's statement there that he still has hope and faith that Yugoslavia will accept the peace plan, so that the withdrawal of Serbian forces can begin and air operations cease. As the situation unfolds today, there is no alternative for NATO to maintain pressure on the Yugoslav authorities. With regard to the implementation of the peace plan, the Storting will have several opportunities to discuss both the deployment of the security force in which Norway will participate, the humanitarian response that will be necessary, and the reconstruction of Kosovo. I find today no reason to go into these elements, which we will come back to later on several occasions. The short-term perspective, which is to end the acts of war, must be given the highest priority today. However, it is reassuring to note that both NATO, the OSCE and other actors have a high level of preparedness for the next stage of development, and that one has already come a long way in preparing for the comprehensive activities to start once the peace plan has been finally adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1708	In SV, we share the conditional optimism of the Foreign Minister and the rest of the Storting, whether we can now see an end to the war in Kosovo, but we have some important comments to make to the respondent. Firstly, how is the last stage implemented? The key now is to put in place a binding timetable for the withdrawal of the Serbian forces, that there will be peace forces in place, and that what happens in the interview does not lead the future that no one wants. SV will warn against creating a framework for the peace forces that could lead to the eventual division of Kosovo. It can be very easy if there are clear distinctions between the areas to be protected by NATO and the areas to be protected by Russia. Although this does not happen in the first place, the Kosovo Albanians may dare to go home where NATO is responsible, but not to the areas for which Russia is responsible. The key to preventing such division in the long term is the relationship between NATO and Russia. Secondly, we see that Ivanov is going to the meeting between the G8 countries with great concern and clear demands that NATO stop the bombing operations. We've recorded that the last days before the night's break-up, NATO has almost carried out the bombing stop, while one has argued for the whole world with the opposite. Now NATO is warning the escalation of the bombing operations. On the side of the SV, we believe that NATO should offer a time-limited bomb stop with a clear deadline to get the last part of the agreement in place – not to give Milosevic any concessions, but to give Russia some concessions, in order to say that their efforts are absolutely necessary for the cessation of the war, in order to contribute to a peace force that is recognised by the UN, and for a peace plan to be adopted by the UN Security Council. The majority should congratulate themselves on the fact that it is not Fridtjof Frank Gundersen who stands for the official Norwegian statements to Russia; our position must be the opposite. The relationship with the Russians is a key point to get the last part of this in place. That's why NATO should be offering a time-limited bomb stop, so that we know there's a broad Russian uproar about what's happening now. Thirdly, in many crossroads, the SV has called for the rapid planning and allocation of funds for a comprehensive reconstruction plan with Marshall Plan dimensions in the Balkans, and many in this room are talking about it. I would like to underline a point that both Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk and the representative of Mr Jagland have previously addressed, namely that this must be a peace plan that includes all the peoples of the Balkans. Now we in SV are afraid of the signals coming from the EU and from Chirac that not a crown should go to the Serbs until Milosevic is thrown. We believe that such an attitude can contribute to the maximum maintenance of the current contradictions, to the provision of a service to the Kosovar Albanians and to the opposite starting point. Two war settlements in Europe have taught us that it is best to include those who have initially lost, as was done in the reconstruction of World War II. It must be Norway's position, it must be Norway's challenge to the EU, to the United States, to include Serbian refugees in Serbia, the Serbian people – that there should be a distinction between Milosevic and the Serbs. And if humanitarian organisations are to be used to channel such assistance, they must be used. But here it must be a political and an economic struggle from the Government. We can't just puzzle with this even from Norway, we have to challenge everyone else to join in. Fourthly, we need to include Montenegro in an agreement and in the further work on a reconstruction plan in the Balkans. Fifth, we are now very strongly warning against focusing solely on the situation in Kosovo and being willing to take funds from other areas of crisis in the world to channel there. Then you can make the same mistake, for example. in the situation in Congo or in Ethiopia/Eritrea, as we have done in relation to the Kosovo crisis. Everyone now agrees that we were ten years late. Had we spent some of the money we have now spent on military actions and bombs, ten years ago, five years ago, this crisis could have been avoided. Now we must not focus in such a way that we fire up similar crises in other areas of the world. That is why it is irresponsible to take the money for this reconstruction from other areas of crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1725	Like the other speakers, I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation and express our shared views on the left. It means, in reality, that I can fully join the post from Thorbjørn Jagland, essentially to the posts from Jan Petersen and Kristin Halvorsen, perhaps to a lesser extent to the post from Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, but of course to the posts from the representatives of the government parties. It is clear that we had all hoped that the perspective we are facing today would have been to secure and stabilise the situation in Kosovo alone and to carry out the subsequent work. We must then note that, unfortunately, we must continue to see war acts as part of what is necessary in any case the next few days. I'm sorry. That is why it was very positive that the Foreign Minister, in his statement, found so much emphasis on the situation after the cessation of the acts of war. It may be more than a statement that the Foreign Minister's assessment must be that there are good opportunities for a halt in the acts of war during the next few days. In that case, we're going to hope that there's an assessment that keeps our goal. Next to ending the acts of war and doing what is necessary for it to happen, as others have said, is the crucial challenge of winning peace. And it will then be absolutely essential to be able to create a situation in Kosovo that will enable refugees outside and in Kosovo to return. In this context, it is also important to strive to remain safe in Kosovo for people with a Serbian background. And both parts, both to ensure that the Kosovar Albanians can return to their homelands and to ensure that Serbs with their residence in Kosovo remain in Kosovo, require a composition of the security forces in Kosovo to enable both groups to do so. And here, like the Christin Halvorsen stressed, I would like to stress that you don't have to do this in such a way that it becomes almost Serbian and Kosovar Albanian enclaves in Kosovo, but that it becomes a mixed settlement, as it must have been in the past. On the part of NATO, it must also be right in this situation to highlight the work that has taken place on the part of Russia, on the part of Chernobyl, and on the part of President Ahtisaari, on the part of Finland. In the course of this process, it is important to highlight the tasks of the Security Council and the United Nations and the tasks of NATO and others, including the OSCE. It may well be important to stress that, in the case of Russian and Finnish participation, it has just emerged that the action in Kosovo is something far more than a purely NATO operation, that NATO has acted in many ways on behalf of a larger world society, an international society. What will then be at the heart of Norway is, of course, to take responsibility for the reconstruction of Kosovo first, but, as some have pointed out, also in Serbia – we may have to add after Milosevic, at least, has fallen. But it is important to also remember the situation in Montenegro, which is part of Yugoslavia, Macedonia and Albania. And perhaps in particular, it is important to carry out the operation in Kosovo in such a way as not to weaken what is being done in Bosnia, so that there is a risk that it will be extinguished there instead. In conclusion, I would like to say that today we must allow ourselves to be impatient with the return of the refugees, while showing patience – we just have to accept that this will take time. It will take years before the situation will be in the vicinity of stability.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1742	The President assumes that the Foreign Minister now wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1745	There may not be a need to say so much, but at least I want to thank the government for the broad support it has received from Stortinget. As I said in my article, and which has also been confirmed by several of the contributions today, it is important that we also now, or perhaps not least now, stand together at this stage, so that we will not – when we are so close to the goal – experience a division that President Milosevic can exploit. In this context, I would like to refer to what is planned in the context of what the representative, Mr Halvorsen, said, namely the ten-point plan that was presented to President Milosevic, and which also agreed with Chernobyl, which states that once this plan has been accepted, military activity should be stopped, so that Russia has also initially agreed that a stop in the military actions towards Yugoslavia requires acceptance and implementation of this 10-point plan. We do not want a break today that we want this to end immediately. We have a plan ready to stop this immediately, and to ensure both the return of refugees and the start of reconstruction. In this context, I would like to stress again what I said myself, as the representative of Mr Jagland was in it, and as others have also mentioned, namely that the region must be seen in the context, not only discuss an effort in Kosovo but also in the area of other countries, and that this must also include Serbia. I think it's important. We need to find ways to support the Serbian population without providing support for Milosevic. We have so much experience of this from earlier through international organisations and non-governmental organisations, so that should not be impossible. It is important that we now show what we have said in the past, that this is not a war against the Serbian people, but it is war against a regime that oppresses parts of its population. I believe that the international community will also stand together to make an effort for this. But it still remains that we continue the pressure, so that we get the plan that's on the table, that Milosevic understands that we're serious, and that we can start implementing the reconstruction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07.ana.ud1015e1754	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. This concludes the morning's meeting. The evening’s meeting will begin at 9 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
