ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e27	From the called alternate of the Vestfold County, Jan Th. Langaard, is requested to be exempted from meeting under Per Ove Width's leave from 6 May to 12 May for reasons of well-being. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates, Anders Anundsen, are proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Anders Anundsen is proposed to be elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Per Ove Width. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western European Union in Bremen, from 10 May to 12 May in order to take part in a meeting of the Defence Committee from May to 12 May in Bremen. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Hordaland County Thorbjørn MerkesdalFor Telemark County Gunn Marit Helgesen3. Thorbjørn Merkesdal is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets the representative of May Britt Vihovde.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e76	The representative of Ursula Evje will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e79	On behalf of the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on flexible wage policies in the school community. Furthermore, on behalf of both of us, I would like to make a proposal on the fixed price in school, vocational and textbooks – The Book Business Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e86	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e105	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Kåre Government Council Jon LilletunState Council Guro Mountains The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the notified persons, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked to be raised. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Inge Wohnning.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e124	I have a question for the Minister of Church, Education and Research. I have noted with interest that during this spring, the Council of State has become more and more detached in proclaiming the message that we need greater diversity, greater local self-government, greater freedom for teachers in Norwegian school, and at the same time that we need to step up in terms of quality requirements for school. I am recording this as an interesting change of course in relation to the policy of the Council of State during the previous enlargement period, and note with pleasure that the change in course can lead to the release of human resources that we need in Norwegian school. However, there remains to be an answer to a question that becomes important in this context: How will the Council of State ensure that we still have a qualitatively equivalent school offer in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e133	I was somewhat turbulent in the introduction when the representative Wage began to refer to me as ‘the release’. But with the clarifications he made, that it was when creating local freedom of action for pedagogical staff and school, I recognize myself. What is the point of balance here is to let pedagogues be pedagogues, and that we nationally say what we want to achieve, and that then it becomes increasingly up to the pedagogue and the local school and the individual municipality itself to develop the methods and plans for this. At the same time, I must say that of course we should have legislation. We have a training law that provides minimum standards. I want to keep it. Furthermore, I want to take care of the good intentions of Reform 97, which clearly describes new ways of working. At the same time, however, we have seen in the context of Reform 97, as there has been a regulation, that it is perceived as so many ‘shall’ out in school that one in one way does not get started with project work, thematic work, etc. That is why I have said that I want to see, in cooperation with parents, teachers' organisations and KS, whether it is necessary to consider whether a whole L97 should be a regulation. So I want to run with a law of training, a law and a national goal, but with greater local freedom for pedagogues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e144	I thank you for your answer. I have recorded that the Council of State has clearly indicated, at the latest in its educational policy statement yesterday, that he will build up central rule and regulation management in school for the benefit of a new way of governing. In this context, it is with interest that I note that the Council of State is now saying that it is the objectives of the school that must ensure the equivalent national school provision. But then my question is, how does the Council of State want to establish mechanisms to ensure that the objectives are achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e152	It is not the only destination. I also said that we should have a law that gave minimum standards. It was a clarification. Our further work here is that we have presented a big message, "Towards Richer Goals", describing a process at school in which we will both develop a more extensive evaluation system, a self-evaluation, and make greater use of some of the norms, which will provide us with national knowledge. I have now registered that the representative Wohnning did not think that we have gone far enough on the inspection page. My hold is that we need to get the school into the process ourselves before we get a large inspector's corps from outside. That is why, in cooperation with the KS, the teachers’ organisations and parents, we want to develop methods for this, and we have started trying to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e161	There will be follow-up questions – Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e164	I have also recorded that, in addition to spring, the Council of State has stated that we are now going to break the Labour Party's education policy, and we are going to add to a greater educational and organisational freedom and a more decentralised system. Last year, the Stortinget dealt with training laws, and in that context, in fact, a number here at Stortinget said that we want such a turn of education policy. Furthermore, I have also registered what the Council of State has expressed when it concerns Reform 97, Reform 94 etc., and I cannot record that there has been any change in the law. In other words, we are continuing on the course that a large majority in this house have previously adopted when it comes to education policy. I would like the Council of State to confirm that what he has criticized as the Labour Party's educational policy is also the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e173	Then I have to disappoint the representative Upbeøen Hansen: I am not going to confirm that. But what I confirm is that there was a broad majority behind the intentions of Reform 94. At the same time, the evaluation has shown us that we need softening in a number of fields. We need to change course in some areas. The main intentions are fixed, but it is quite obvious that as experienced in the school, both the speed and part of the detail control, it has led to a passivity outside that it is necessary to do something about. I think we should do that. When it comes to Reform 97, this representative was constantly on the Stortinget against that curriculum being a rule. What I have said is that the content is good in Reform 97, but the methods to achieve the goal I want to have evaluated. Many teachers express that you have had a backpack on your shoulder with the prescription that has so many “shells”. Therefore, I have said that I am willing to look at a correction of it. [[The President clubs.]] I have not had a frontal attack on previous school policies, but I have said that course adjustments are necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e183	The President must now proceed to a frontal attack at the time of the speech.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e186	This representative has a great deal of understanding for that, President. I'm asking for cause.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e191	The President assumes that the Council of State meant it. There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e199	I have a great sense that the Council of State is getting away with it and saying what he really means. And I also see what he has now said, is very interesting, not least for the diversity of schools, and that you have to have greater local freedom in education. That's very interesting. But in the extension of that, there are a couple of natural questions that I could imagine challenging the Council of State on. The first is, does that mean that those who are today admitted as private schools for educational purposes – we have two: Montessori and Steiner education – are considered as different educational paths than the ones we have in our normal primary school? Does this mean that the State Council within the framework of primary school/unitary school will accept that kind of pedagogics also enter as a pilot project? And does that mean that within the single school we're going to have a greater pedagogical diversity even when it comes to what is defined as different directions today in our law? That's the one. The second thing I could imagine challenging the Council of States is: we once had something like hot The Test Council, which, after my concept, was a very sensible device, where we were working with educational new developments and educational pilot projects to make the learning process better for the children. Will the Council of State take the initiative in restoring the Test Council?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e208	When it comes to the first question, it is quite right that there should be opportunities for trials where the type of educational freedom should also be allowed to be tested. D. is as it is initiated from below, i.e. that there is agreement on a school, both among parents, teachers and the municipality, that one would like to try such an alternative pedagogical scheme, I thought it would be exciting. I believe that the error one made last had a discussion about both the form of assessment and the whole, was that it was largely caused by a central hold. It did not come sufficiently from below. I want us to develop projects locally that I want to approve after the intention expressed by the representative, Djupedal. When it comes to the last question, I don't want a new government test council. V.i shall have a development secretariat to provide professional advice. I also want it from below, but with a central hold guide. I think the old test council was good, but that it was also a bit too centrally initiated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e217	Let's move on to the next main question. The President considers that it may be time to recall that additional questions should be raised to the greatest extent possible to the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e222	I also have a question for the Minister of Church, Education and Research. I see he's ready. In comparison with the previous round, it is possible to note that the Lilletun and the Government have not made any proposal to change the existing legislation in the school area. Governments, at the head of other state councils, have also said that in the case of our cross-border schools, the small schools, this government is going to have a completely different offensive than previous governments. They were also going to give money to ensure that the small and good school environments were still going to exist. Some money was given through cosmetics, but now we are told that much of the money has gone for other purposes in the municipalities. How will a government council that talks about the importance of both central and local matters ensure that what he says here in Stortinget is a goal?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e229	It's quite right what the representative Knudsen says, that I and this government are busy with their cross-bowls. However, we have never made a proposal and said that we should review the decision taken by the municipalities in these cases. At the same time, we have been concerned that the income system should be such that it does not in itself initiate closures. We've also made a lot of money available via an extra promise, which is probably largely used for schools, but which are also used for a lot of other things. Yesterday we presented the status report from all the education offices. The net closure of alleys in 1998 was 13 schools. There are probably too many, even in the opinion of the Council of State, but there is still a result that was better than many of the previews given. And I believe that the central measures have helped with that. It is important that we facilitate the few schools and highlight the good with them and how well it suits Reform 97. Furthermore, it is important that we take the review that we have announced and that we are doing on the income system. But at the same time it has to be the local environment that finally decides these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e238	I thank you for your answer. My main question was how the Council of State should ensure the balance of its position in the Storting and report on the important areas in which this government will invest, while at the same time noticing and having an attitude in the allocations, so that the intentions can be fulfilled. I can mention the matter that the Council of State raised yesterday regarding bullying. How is the Council of State going to do this if he doesn't control it from the central environments and where you want a development?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e245	We will always be in the balance between local self-government and central legislation and initiative. I mentioned some of the measures this government had taken to prevent ball laying. And I would say that there are more active measures than what has been done in the past. At the same time, I confirm that we will not review the municipalities as long as they follow the law and guidelines. We have also taken an initiative to write the education directors in relation to giving parents who are in these conflicts local, advice and guidance, so that they know what rights they have. But the final decision, as long as the proceedings and laws are followed, will be anchored locally. When it comes to bullying, it's clear that we're going to have a central initiative. But at the same time we have all said that there must be plans in each school. Then it is important to have an interaction between central and local initiatives, and to develop the local initiative — where people actually live and live.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e252	Anneliese Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e256	There is probably a clear link between the local economy and the closure of cross-border schools. But what is happening now is worrying. Norwegian Teachers' Teams have called out warnings and expect us to be able to face far more extensive schooling in the years ahead than it has been at present. The country’s rate of education for the elderly and the few schools in the country indicates that it has been closed down between 40 and 50 primary schools each year. I think both the Council of State and we agree that schools have great value, and that we want to protect them and go against this mass destruction that we have witnessed, not least because of the students. In some cases, their school day may be extended by a travel time of up to two hours, for example. happened in Berlevåg municipality. The Labour Party and SV asked the Government to present a separate case in the context of the budget on the basis of the school closures in the municipalities to see the context there. [[President clubs]] Will the Council of State do that, so that the Storting can get a proper review? [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e263	The President asks the representative of Mr Dørum to adjust closely to the regulatory time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e266	I want to talk in the budget this year about last year's issue of cross-country skirmishes. For the first time in history, this year there was a section on the cross-sections, the value of them, the pedagogical innovations with those associated with Reform 97 and thoughts ahead. The number of dents last year was 13, as I just said, and it's important to bring it with you. The prognosis has been worse than the result. I am very pleased that the Teacher team said as clearly as they did this year. I'm also happy that we got this 50 million prize. kr. Although it was not ear-marked, it was involved in the right direction. Therefore, the consequences will probably not be as it looked when the Teacher team informs about the situation. Of course, I will follow up on what Stortinget has asked for, and come back with a thorough review. For the first time, we have the Landslag for the few and unadulterated schools, both in the Ministry of Local Affairs and in my department and in relation to the education directors. I think we should put forward something that gives hope.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e271	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e274	My question goes to State Council Mountains. The size decided in 1996 to grant a concession for the construction of two gas power plants in the West. Much has been done to train this decision, and the last shot on the stem is that yesterday the SFT maintained the strict emission requirements for construction as they treated the anchor from Natural Force. These requirements are so stringent that gas power stations cannot be realised under the concession terms because there is currently no commercial technology for the removal of CO2. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to deal with CO2 emissions under the pollution law, and in the case of – what basis does it have for doing so?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e281	Let me first distance myself from the statement that much has been done to train the decision of the Storting. It was the previous government and the then oil and energy minister who decided that when energy concessions were granted, the greenhouse gas emissions and CO2 emissions had to be regulated at the same time, and that an SFT emission permit had to be granted. What I think is important is that all kinds of pollution and all kinds of emissions face a cost and regulation. If we per. Today we do not deal with greenhouse gas emissions under the pollution law, we have no other way of dealing with them. That was the background for the then government adding up to such a procedure that this government has followed up. We are in a very comprehensive discussion and investigation into how to deal with greenhouse gas emissions in the future, either with allowances or with taxes. As you know, the government has set up a quota committee that will be set at the turn of the year 1999-2000. At the same time, international efforts are being made to put in place the international regulatory framework to ensure that we have rules for the so-called Kyoto mechanisms, i.e. quota trading, flexible implementation and the green development mechanism. I'll briefly summarize that per. Today, I believe it is important that these emissions are treated under the pollution law. In the future, I think it's important that we somehow meet that kind of requirement. We cannot have a situation where greenhouse gas emissions are without any regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e292	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As the Council of State was about to do, the Government aims to implement the Kyoto agreement. Nevertheless, CO2 emissions are treated under the pollution law, as the Council of State has just confirmed. First, the pollution law is used, and then a few have to buy allowances. Isn't that some kind of double accounting from the government? Why can't natural force get a temporary emission permit until an allowance system is in place, so that we can produce enough electricity to cover our power loss and thus avoid importing heavily contaminated Danish coal power?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e299	Of course, the government will refer to the Storting decision that no type of emissions will face double regulation, nor will it be the case at the moment it has been concluded with regard to both the national quota system and the international one. I think it is difficult for me to handle the complaint that ended up on my table today. As we know, we have a complaint from the owners of Naturkraft asking us to facilitate the requirements, both for CO2 emissions and NOx emissions. On the other hand, we have a complaint from the environmental movement asking us to tighten up the requirements of being able to participate in the international system. Both of these things, of course, we have to consider carefully. Finally, let me say that I have noticed that the owners of Natural Power have put gas power plants on ice for two years and do not state SFT's requirements as the main reason, but rather the Nordic electricity prices and the Kyoto mechanisms, that they have not been clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e308	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e311	I have a question for Environment Minister Guro Fjellanger. A report has been prepared by the County of Eastfold. In the area of environment and outdoors, he expresses strong concern at the public's right to free movement in the coastal zone. He believes there is a hollowing out of the right to free movement, and that there is a sneak privatisation of the beach zone. Despite the fact that we have had a construction ban since 1965 within the 100-metre zone, we see that it is not being respected and that the existing cabins are being extended. In addition, we tend to build people from cabins down to the sea. It takes place through the construction of terraces, arranged streets and large brewing facilities. This results in most people being shut out of the beach zone to a much greater extent than before. My question to the Council of State is what she will do to ensure the public's right to free movement, both in Eastfold and in the coastal zone of South Norway for the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e318	Let me start by saying that there is a very important problem that the representative Gunn Karin Gjul here addresses. She is quite right that there has been a development in the negative direction, perhaps especially in the coastal zone along the Oslo soil. It's a development that worries me deeply. That is also why the ministry has done the following: After we received a verdict in the Supreme Court on an illegal fence in Sandefjord, we have sent out a circular to the county officials and asked them to intensify the practice that is today and made aware of the importance of the judgment in the Supreme Court. We actually had a case where the Supreme Court asked for an illegal fence to be removed, a fence that was actually built before the open air law came into place. It says a little about how strongly the Court of Human Rights stands in the opinion of the Supreme Court. In addition, as the representative Gunn Karin Gjul correctly says, there is also an extension in the hundred meters zone, which it is important to grasp. The rules per year today requires two things. One is that the exemption must be justified on special grounds and the other is that regional authorities must be notified. We have now asked for a review from the statesmen, not only in Eastfold, but also in other states that are strongly represented on the dispensation side, and asked them to verify that these two requirements are met. If it turns out they're not, we're going from the department to inculcate that practice. Should it turn out not to be good enough, we will consider changing and clarifying the law. At least I would like to stress very strongly one thing, and that is that it will not be relevant for this government to accept that the rights of all people are being eroded in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e326	I thank the staff for the answer, and I am very happy that she takes these issues so seriously, and that she is also willing to look at the law. It is true that we now have a Supreme Court ruling that goes into what goes into physical obstacles in the beach zone. But in this case, it's not just physical obstacles, but just as much that it's built and privatized in such a way that most people perceive it as a private area, which makes it impossible for them to move in the area, if you have the law and the right of the public to travel in this area. My question to the Council of State is whether she intends to look at the possibility of tightening up the law, so that the public's right to free movement is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e333	Let me also say that I have registered that there are some municipalities that have started to take this development seriously, and that some local authorities have now reduced the size of cabins from, for example. 120 to 90 m2, which also shows that in some municipalities this is taken seriously. At the same time, it is clearly a problem that this is not taken seriously enough in some other municipalities. As I said, at first we want to clarify to the municipalities through the county what is to be the requirement for the practice of the exemption. If that does not help, I can confirm what I said in my first answer, that we are willing to look at the law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e340	Hallgeir H. Langeland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e343	SV has also addressed this issue in the Question Time, especially linked to Vestfold and the dispensation practices that have been there. I understand the Council of State so that it is now intensifying its work to ensure that one does not get such a practice for exemptions as one now has, and I would like to have a confirmation of that. The second is that some of the private people have taken care of and set up fences and such without having any right to do so. My question to the Council of State is whether it recommends that other people get along and remove these fences.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e350	Let me first confirm – as I also hope I confirmed in the first two answers – that I am dedicated to intensifying the work to ensure that the rights of all persons are guaranteed. I think that's important, because I think that the all-man's right and the Norwegian attitude to nature – where we take in nature, not just by reading about it, but by going for a walk in the spring and smelling it and listening to the birds singing – is a healthy alternative to the little hollywood version with the «survival of the cutest». I think that is a good and important alternative we have in Norway. When it comes to removing illegally set-up fences, I think the best solution is that the municipality is conscious of its responsibility and ensures that these fences and fences are removed. What I want to encourage people to do is to make the municipality aware of the illegal closures and take an initiative towards the municipality, so that the municipality does its job. It's my hope and my belief that we can solve the problem that way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e357	Dag Terje Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e360	I am pleased with the answers the Minister for the Environment has given to the questions from Gunn Karin Gjul, and hope that that commitment to public rights to free movement also applies in relation to outdoor activities in the country, related to hunting and fishing. But my follow-up question concerns what has already been the issue, namely the coastal zone, and there has been mention of Westfold. What the stanchion says is very good. But the problem for us who live in Westfold is that the fence is there. Then my question becomes: What does the Council of State intend to do to ensure that in practice the local authorities follow up on the fact that the fences that are laid down or refused to be built are actually not physically present – in addition to the good intentions that the Council of State has now expressed?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e367	Let me first confirm that the government's work on the rights of all people applies not only in the coastal zone but also in the inland, and that is a problem we are concerned with across the country. When it comes to the illegal fence in Sandefjord and the Supreme Court judgment, I have registered that this is developing into some kind of soap opera. The goat was first removed, and then to be set up again, and I've heard rumors that you've gone to the acquisition of sheep in the hope that this can legitimize the fence. I have not yet confirmed that. But I want to make sure that illegally set-up fences are removed. In the first place, it will happen by working with the municipality. If it turns out not to show up, we'll have to evaluate other methods.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e376	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e379	My question goes to the Minister of Church, Education and Research. Earlier today, the Council of State has used the concept of minimum standards. The fact is, there are very few minimum standards in school today. The report by the State education directors refers to some large differences in resource input between municipalities. In the key communication on national assessment systems, the Council of State and the Ministry also underline the same. In the presentation yesterday, the Council of State was concerned with new teaching methods, practical working methods in primary school, and the key word was diversity in school. My question to the Council of State will be: Is it possible to achieve this without introducing minimum standards on resource use, and what action will the Council of State take to ensure any minimum standards in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e386	The description given by the representative Rikvam both by what I have said today and in the distribution is quite patent. The way we're going to achieve this is through development work. Because it turns out that when it comes to resource use, it's quite right that it's quite different, and it's disturbing some places. It is particularly alarming if the resource effort is still low over a period of years. However, in the same big message as the representative from Reikham, it is quite clear that there is no automatic link between resource input and learning exchange. It turns out that organisational and pedagogical methods are very often more important than resource supply. Then I say not that in some places there is no need to get more resources into the schools than today. What I've also said about the message is that there's going to be a report every two years to the Storting, where one doesn't just take care of it, that's the description that Reikvam now refers to, but also analyses why it's been like this, and what we want to do. I have also said that in those places where the use of resources is constantly low for a long time, we need to assess methods of intervention from a central point of view. So here we need a work to do. But it is not quite right that the representative, Mr Requam, says that there are no minimum standards. We have it in relation to class and relative to distance, relative to clouds and on a number of other areas. We have now also received a regulation on health, the environment and security that it will be an important job to get done in school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e398	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State did not respond to any of my main points, i.e. if the Council of State sees a clear need for minimum economic standards, for example, that we go back to a system we had before, that one for each class should set a minimum of hours. That was basically what was my question. I felt that the council was walking a little bit around it. In the case of minimum standards, to the extent that what the Council of State says is that there are minimum standards in some areas. But we've removed some, there were considerably more minimum standards in the past. So we've gone away from minimum standards and left a larger part to each municipality. But I have to go back to what was really my main question: Will the Council of State propose that we have a minimum number of hours for each class that ensures division, that ensures diversity, and that ensures educational development in each class?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e407	I believe that the surest way to do this is to find ways to manage resources in a good way. The problem of introducing several standards is that it is very often binding that prevents local development work organisationally and pedagogically. At the same time, I will confirm that in some areas there is a worrying resource situation, so that it might be inconvenient to resort to minimum standards. But now we have all proclaimed the threat to local self-government. Then it must also be allowed to work here. Now we have to try to find methods that come from below, and don't keep applying them from above.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e412	Rune E. Kristiansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e415	I hear that the Council of State not only once, but repeatedly, expresses such strong faith in the local anchoring. What if these organisational structures don't work? Will not the Council of State see the need also to have central governance mechanisms not least in relation to having an equivalent offer and development and maintenance of the single school? I'm worried if you're trying to say that you can maintain the single school while you're applying for cooperation with the right-hand side here in Stortinget for an organisational structure that should have such strong local anchoring that the Council of State in many ways really doesn't have the opportunity to go centrally into the whole development of primary school, among other things. This box can be used to specify the units of the van der Waals constant'a '.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e420	I hope I can take away some of that turmoil. I'm here to have a law that gives clear national leadership. What we've assessed the equivalent school provision based on when we've written the big message now is whether one meets the law and regulations. And as far as we see, everyone does it. At the same time, we know that for the last ten years, Skule-Noreg has experienced that the necessary reforms have largely been centralized and that it has gone well quickly. I have said earlier today that there are a huge number of positive elements in these reforms. But at the same time, when you've met a Skule-Noreg who calls out to be involved in this development, I'm going to say: Let's now move the focus a little bit, let's move the focus locally, housed experiences. And then I'm in agreement with the representative of Kristiansen that we're still going to have strong national laws that secure a single school. It is also this Council of State's wish.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e427	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e430	I have a question for our honourable Minister of Agriculture. Today’s reindeer management policy is a classic example of how the plan economy works. First, significant capital and regulatory arrangements are injected into this industry, and then we get a far too high a figure in relation to the grazing base. What we're experiencing today at Finnmarkswirda can almost be considered an ecological disaster. And then, in part, the same politicians have to contribute new subsidies in the form of slaughter grants and conversion programmes in the hundreds of millions, without improving the situation in particular. Many think we play Russian rulet with Finnmarkswirdda. What can the Council of State do to prevent us from experiencing an ecological collapse?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e437	I would like to confirm that there is a significant concern about the adjustment between reindeer numbers and what is the grazing basis in parts of Finnmark. Today, the redundancy agreement in Stortinget is under consideration. In this agreement, there is also a protocol in which the country has agreed with the reindeer management organisation on measures to reduce reindeer numbers, and then with relatively rapid effect. Anyone who has been involved over a period of time and has discussed the reindeer management policy and the reindeer management agreement knows that this imbalance that exists has been repeatedly pointed out, and measures have been put in place. Now there is a consensus that action is needed. They can be quite tactful to a part of those affected, but are absolutely necessary in relation to the situation we find in parts of Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e446	By and large, no one is satisfied with today’s reindeer management policy – except for some politicians, then. The clean-up tests have a bad economy, we experience an environmentally destructive chaos, and the taxpayers who constantly pay the bill for political experiments are also dissatisfied with the policy. My question to the Council of State is: Will he consider reducing and removing subsidies for this industry, so that we can get a more natural adjustment between the number of pure and grazing grounds?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e453	I think that in the future we will also have to have a reindeer management policy in which, together with the industry, we contribute to finding solutions that also serve individuals. If you're going to have a release in that area, it's going to be the strongest chance to survive even among the owners who get a positive impact in Finnmark. It is a policy that will be out-of-date for the Government and for the Council of State. We want measures where we maintain the possibility of participation from many, but within what is possible in relation to the resource base, that is where the concern today is the greatest. And we have to find solutions that are effective.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e458	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e462	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. The area area of the municipal plan for Stavanger has been up in Stortinget several times. In connection with an interpellation from Tore Nordtun on 14 January this year, the intention of the large majority was that the area part should be followed as it existed from the municipality of Stavanger. At the end of the debate, the Minister said that she would comply with the wishes of the majority of the population. How long does the Council of State need to implement the view of the majority of population?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e469	After the round in Stortinget, Stortinget concluded that there was a need, and I was asked to take a new review with Stavanger Municipality on the basis of the facts, among others. a. assess the consequences. As a result, on 4 March we had a meeting with the vice-president, county rapporteur and county councillor – a constructive meeting where I realized that all parties were interested in getting this matter out of the world as soon as possible, but where there was also great will from all parties to find a solution. At this meeting it was also agreed that the next step was that the administrative level of both the department, the municipality and the county municipality should sit down and go through the facts. That job is as far as I can see, almost complete, and at the moment it is available, the matter will be settled.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e474	I then assume that the outcome of the conclusion is such as the majority in Stortinget asked, namely that the area part will be as provided by the municipality of Stavanger, and I assume that the Council of State can confirm it. That was the clear wish of the majority of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e479	Let me say what I have also said from this pulpit in the past, that I have done my utmost both to try to find out and interpret the decision of the Storting and to follow it up. That's also my intention.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e484	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e487	Stavanger municipality’s general plan was adopted with an agreement of nearly 90 p.m. by the members of the city council. Despite this, the decision was sovereignly set aside by the Minister for the Environment. The size decided by more than 2/3 majority to ask the Ministry of the Environment to reconsider this matter, and the submissions made it very clear that the clear wish of the majority of the population was that this decision should be revised. Would it not be rather arrogant of the ministry if we now end up with the same decision as before, not taking into account a very clear wish from a solid majority of the population, and a very clear wish from the politicians who are in the city affected by the decision? And how will it correspond to the Left's view of local self-government if this decision is not reversed?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e492	Let me first say that the reason why this case at all ended up on my table was that there was a conflict with the best food soil in the country, in one of the best climate zones. The Storting asked by decision that we took a new assessment of the case and asked us to go through the facts. As I said in the Storting during the debate, I want to do this in close cooperation with the municipality, and that is what we are now finishing. On the basis of this, we will make a final decision. It is not my intention to make a decision that is arrogant; rather, on the contrary, it is my intention to make a decision that is a good solution also for the municipality of Stavanger.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e499	Tore Nordtun. – The President is somewhat in doubt if there is anything more coming out of a still round. - Sir. Nordtun draws its request for follow-up questions. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e504	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. On a proposal from the Government, the size has decided to abolish the investment tax on agriculture. The drop-out is justified by the desire to facilitate investment costs for Norwegian agriculture. A number of farmers have joined together in so-called machine rings, or machine layers, to cooperate on necessary investments. This makes sense from both an economic, professional and social perspective, and such cooperation has been sought from the political environment. I have been informed that such machine teams still have to pay an investment fee on agricultural machinery. As a result, there is a situation in which the charging system contributes to preventing positive developments in agricultural cooperation. My question is then: What is the reason why the state is now adding up to a charging system that favors farmers who have not entered into machinery cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e515	Firstly, I would like to say that the abolition of the investment tax on agriculture has helped to reduce the level of costs. It is intended for approx. 400 million. kr per. years. For the industry as such, that is a good decision. With regard to the specific question raised by the representative Hanssen, I have to say that this is exactly what I am not familiar with. Tax policy is governed by the Ministry of Finance in the light of the regulatory framework. So I have to ask for understanding that I have to go into it more closely in order to know why and how this legislation is designed. As the representative says, it is important to find mechanisms in which we develop cooperation measures that will also be cost-reducing for agriculture. I would like to examine this matter in order to find out how this legislation is designed. Unfortunately, I cannot go into my answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e524	I thank you for your answer. This suggests that the Government has made a proposal that it has not fully understood. I agree with the Council of State that it would be pointless to have a charging system here that does not stimulate sensible cooperation, a cooperation that is important for both economic, professional and social reasons. One can then have a double effect, both cooperation and the cancellation of investment fees. I am pleased that this suggests that the Council of State agrees that the intention should be that it should function this way. My follow-up question is: If it turns out that my situation description is correct – and confirmed by farmers who are part of machine rings – will the Council of State take the initiative to change the rules so that we get this in place?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e537	I think I'll be careful to go further in saying what the result of my research will be in relation to the Ministry of Finance. What I know is that guidelines are to be drawn up after a decision is taken here in the Grand Duchy, and it is through the guidelines that we might have this bias pointed out. One possibility may be that, in some cases, these machinery rings run rentals for others, which result in a distortion of competition with others operating on the same market. But it's just an assumption from my side, which I have to check in more closely. I agree that we should try to find solutions in agriculture that contribute to cooperation and that therefore also work cost-effectively. I will follow this up with the Ministry of Finance to find out what the basis is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e544	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e547	I have a question for the State Council, Jon Lilletun. It relates to the state in which the Norwegian school is in, briefly described in the Evening Post Yesterday, where on pages 10 and 11 there are the following headings: ‘Kutter in special education’, ‘Mister eight hours’, ‘Parents want more power in school’ — despite the fact that Oslo is the only municipality in the country that has the operating director — ‘Stolling’ at Bærums schools, ‘Known for both students and principals’, ‘Children can become sterile’ — of this abuse — ‘Unheard and frightening’ — from a superior. The question is: when the parents under Section 30 of the Children's Act have overall responsibility for their children's physical and mental health, and the school as a system assists in destroying precisely this fragile balance that physical/psychological health is in a small child, how will the Council of State address itself to an extensive possibility for parents to intervene and solve this Georgian knot?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e557	First of all, of course, I would like to agree with Ursula Evje's representative that the phrases she referred to from the Berum Schools are quite dramatic. What became very clear on a hearing that Barneombodet, in collaboration with the Ministry of Education and Research, was that in mob situations, they felt that a very often thought it would pass. It believed the student, it believed the teacher, and it also often believed parents. The advice we received from the young people was that we should intervene more quickly. I think we've got a lot of good tools. We have received the Step-by-Step project under the auspices of the National Association for Public Health, which is now at 650 schools. We have the conflict councils, and we have plans for many of the schools. But I think as an adult we have to admit that at all levels we have to go heavier than we have to be willing to. Then parents are fundamentally important. Now it's just like the representative Ursula Evje himself said: Oslo may have tried more than others, and they also feel helpless. It shows that we're dealing with extensive and complex questions here, which I don't think there's one answer to. If the question is how to understand whether I want parents to be more likely to have an impact, by having faster reactions, I agree with Ursula Evje's representative. But when it comes to the pedagogical responsibility of the class and the pedagogical responsibility of the school, it has to be for a teacher and a principal, but parents have great ability to intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e566	I have an additional question for the Council of State. What he says is well and good. It is entirely in line with what was said during the treatment of the parental message. You don't want your parents to have real power to intervene, despite having the overall responsibility. I can just pin it down. I would like to ask him whether the appeal of the Supreme Court in the Mosvik case does not confirm the view that the parents must bow to the municipality despite the clear wording of the Children's Act in Section 30.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e575	Now I'm not sure if I can give an adequate answer in one minute, but in principle I want to state that this council and this government are responsible for training and not compulsory schooling. Ergo is such that parents who, for reasons of principle or practicality, want to have the training themselves at home, have access to it by law. Of course we're behind that. This has been a conflict in Moscow over the responsibility of supervision. There, not the Minister of Church, Education and Research, but the State Attorney-General has wanted to try out the assessment that the court has made of the law in the specific case, and we just need to take note of that. But it is obvious that the promise, as it is signed here in the Grand Duchy when it comes to compulsory training and not compulsory schooling, says this council 100 pst. rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e582	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e585	My question also goes to the Council of State Lilletun. We see that private schools have grown both economically and in number under this government. Governments seem to give priority to applications from these schools, and see it as an advantage that the number is increasing. In the previous budget compromise, the Government, the Right and the Advance Party cut approx. 300 million. expenditure on public schools, while giving priority to the private sector. We're constantly seeing a strange conclusion that the schools are making their own rules and acting intolerant. All possible religious groups are now taking their children out of high school to provide training in what they think is the right belief, which in many cases isolates children from the rest of the neighbourhood. These schools are run almost exclusively with public support, yet few demands appear to be made. The last example is Hedmarktopen Folkehochskole, who is driven by the Pentecostal movement, who refused a student to join the student team because of sexual orientation. Will the Council of State do anything to ensure that private schools do not seem segregated? And is it such that these schools are exempt from Norwegian law and Norwegian law?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e596	First a color cleanup. First, the representative Norvoll talked about private schools that are largely parallel to public schools, and that, as they say correctly, at the elementary level has either started on the basis of educational alternatives or life views. To put that dimension into context: overall, in this country, it's about. 1.5 pst. by students attending private schools. They have an extra arrangement of 85 pst. of the proposal to public schools, and then the rent is not included. This does not mean any special treatment, they are entitled to the laws, and they are to be treated properly. Parents who love such schools shall be taken seriously. Then we also have a law on public high schools, and the Hedmarktoppe, as it was referred to here, is a school established on the premises of which a public high school is established. When it comes to the matter raised by the representative Norvoll, I have received a written question from the representative Grete Knudsen about it. It is based on a VG lookup, and I have sent a letter to the school asking for an information about the current situation. I don't want to deal here on the basis of a newspaper essay, but there are two things I want to say: when it concerns the school's right to run on an ideological basis, and when it involves additions, it's clear from the law. But when it comes to admission to a school, of course, there is no way of segregated on the basis of cork sexual orientation or other equivalents that are the same place in the law. Therefore, of course, everyone has the right to search, and one does not have the right to divorce someone because of sexual orientation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e603	To underline: The view of the Labour Party on school policy in general is that the public school should be a meeting place for people with different backgrounds. It shall promote tolerance and understanding. That's why we give public school priority, and get more private offers that have to be taken for special interests, come in second row. In its educational policy statement yesterday, the Council of State spent a lot of its time working against bullying. Does the Council agree with me that bullying or cleaning on the basis of skin colour or sexual orientation is in principle the same thing? And will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that there is no longer any possibility of discrimination in any of these areas in private schools? After all, we are constantly ignoring the fact that people with different orientations are being discriminated against and pushed out of those environments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e610	First to the priority of the public schooling. There I agree entirely with the representative Norvoll. My main priority is also the public schooling – a good one-stop school – and it's 98,5 pst. of the Norwegian school which is such. Unlike the Workers' Party, I and this government say that tolerance is also a right to the establishment of schools both on a life-view and, alternatively, on a pedagogical basis. When it comes to tolerance and what I mean about bullying on the basis of sexual orientation, I'm of course completely in agreement with the representative Norvoll that there should be no. Bullying should not exist at all, and there we all have a responsibility. I have no evidence that this type of bullying is stronger in private schools than in public schools. We've also had examples of elephants being taken out of public school and into private because of a bullying situation. So it might be problematic both places. But, to conclude, I take as much distance from bullying on a sexual basis as Norvoll's representative does.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e618	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure. Before answering the questions on today's map, the President will give the floor to the Council of State Odd Einar Dørum, who wants to give an additional answer to question No. 20 by Mr Jørn L. Stang, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on 24 February. Follow-up to question No. 20 Wednesday 24 February from Mr Jørn L. Stang.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e627	The supplementary answer to a question asked to Minister of Justice Lilletun was as follows: It has been decided that the improved security and humanitarian situation in parts of Somalia, including in particular North Somalia, no longer warrants the granting of a general residence permit to asylum seekers associated with those areas on the basis of the need for protection. However, the individual case will always be subject to a specific assessment. The Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has started work on clarifying the practical implementation of the return to Somalia. To this end, an informal working group has been set up, with the participation of all parts of the residence of non-residents. At the same time, the issue is discussed in the Nordic context in order to gain knowledge and experience from the work done, particularly on the Danish side. Denmark is one of the few countries that have succeeded in returning to Somalia. The Norwegian authorities have given this work a high priority, but it is not possible at this stage to provide more specific information.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e638	Jørn L. Stang gets the word for a comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e641	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There was some uncertainty in the response concerning the repatriation of Somalis, but since I understood at the Council of State, it was a successful initiative that was taken in Denmark. And then my question is: Will the Government v/State Council Dørum make sure to contact the authorities in Denmark to see what they have done, and what is the reason why they have returned them to collect where they really come from? Does the Council of State wish to cooperate with Denmark in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e653	We have ongoing and general cooperation with the other Nordic countries on all kinds of asylum and refugee issues, and if this issue has not already been contacted to any extent, I will of course be sure that it is done, because that is a logical part of the way we work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e658	The size has thus been completed with the processing of the additional response and the related comment, and we move on to the ordinary question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e663	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Elsa Scarbøvik to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 6, from the representative of Kristin Halvorsen to the Minister of Defence, will be answered by the Minister of Justice who directs him. The question will be raised by the representative Heikki Holmås. Question 7, from the representative Kristin Halvorsen to the Minister of Defence, will be raised by the representative Heikki Holmås. Question 10, from the representative of Ingvald Godal to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Defence who directs him. The question will be raised by the representative Trond Helleland. Question 16, from the representative Bjørn Hernæs to the Minister for Social Affairs, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 17, from the representative of Aud Gaundal to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs, who has been removed. Question 19, from the representative of Elsa Scarbøvik to the Minister for Development and Human Rights, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 22, from Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister for the Environment, lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease. Question 24, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be taken up by the representative of Sylvia Brustad.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e699	This question has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e705	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: «The fisheries management and marine research institute is struggling with its credibility in stocking estimates, especially in cod and seas. The calculation models used do not include the fish consumption of the large marine mammals. In addition, the Marine Research Institute needs data from independent observers taking samples of vessels under active fishing. What will the Council of State do to improve research and management?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e714	The calculation model used in the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea — ICES — assumes that marine mammals consume a constant share of the annual amount of fish: the more fish it is in the population, the more consumed by whales and seals. So far, this consumption has not been made depending on the number of sea mammals. Marine mammal populations change relatively slowly compared to fish stocks, and therefore their total consumption will also change slightly from one year to the next. However, the consumption of whales and seals of one particular species of fish will vary much more depending on the changes in fish stocks. With little solder and herring in the Barents Sea, whales and seals will eat more cod and haze than when there is a lot of solder and herring. The marine research institute is working to include such aspects in the model under development at the Institute. The entry data for stock assessments are mainly of two types: data from catch and data from commercial fishing. Both types of data are increasingly and less uncertain. The main sources of errors, both systematic and non-systematic, and how errors affect the results of stock calculations are known. The task of the marine research institute is to provide the fisheries management with the best professional advice on the evolution of fish stocks. To the extent that such data as the representative Bastesen refers to may be of importance for the qualitative improvement of stock assessments, the Institute of the Marine Research should seek to provide for the necessary data collection within its budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e723	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm recording that the Marine Research Institute is now in the process of calculating data for the consumption of marine mammals. I would like to inform the Council of State that models are already completed at Fisheries Research in Tromsø. They have developed and completed models for the large programme of marine mammals. Wasn't it a thought that the Marine Research Institute would turn to Tromsø and get the calculations, so that they could at least save money on that work, and perhaps get money left to observers who could board vessels during active fishing? For the problem the marine research institute has, they don't have the money to send out observers who can collect data. There is reason to believe that there is a major difference between what is actually fishing and what is being registered as a country. It creates uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e730	As I said in my first answer, the consumption of marine mammals is included in the calculation model used by the Marine Research Institute, among others. for cod stocks. It's really nothing new. It has in fact been known for many years, and considerable work has been done on the calculations of what marine mammals consume from different fish species. So it's well-known also in the Marine Research Institute, and this is used in the model. Whether that tool can be improved is another matter. It must be primarily up to the researchers and the marine research institute to assess how it can be prioritised. For the collection of data from the fishing fleet, it is important that data are comparable from year to year, that there is a continuity in the collection of data, in order to be able to be included in the model. This does not mean that the collection of data from the fishing fleet can be a good enough tool to improve management.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e737	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. But I'm not satisfied, because the information I've been given is just about the fact that the Marine Research Institute has not consumed the marine mammals in its models. When there is accurate data available from a fisheries researcher at Fisheries Research in Tromsø, it is strange for me to record that the Marine Research Institute does not use them. Estimates are now included in the calculation models, and there is something quite different from research that is proven to be available in Tromsø. The same scientist tells me that by getting observers out on the boats in active fishing – it could be about three-four men who can ambulate around – they would get a much better basis for calculation. But they don't have money for it. Wouldn't it have been positive if the Council had said that we are doing this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e744	I cannot relate to claims made by a representative who provides information from individuals in the research communities. I have to deal with the bodies that are cooperating with the department and which we in the department are going to deal with. I was a member of the Maritime and Fisheries Committee in the 1980s, and then this particular issue was a topic. It was a well-known concept, where especially the marine scientists in cooperation forums both in Tromsø and Bergen provided figures on what the marine mammals consumed. I cannot therefore understand that the claims made by the representative Bastesen can be correct. But of course, I'm going to try to follow up what has been said here in this round, and look at what can be done to get the data that might be available from researchers into the work on stock calculations in a proper way. Let me also say that such research cannot produce exact results. After all, it's going to be a calculation of what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e757	I have a new question for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘A new Lofot fishing operation is now completed with mediocre results. The measurements carried out by the researchers on the broodstock indicate a sharp crack in relation to the model shown. Large parts of the slippery scream slumped on the Mosque grounds this year as in previous years, at the end of March and the beginning of April. At the same time, an intense bottom trawling was driven on the spawning fish. Does the Council of State think it makes sense to use trawls on spawning grounds, and should not this fishing be stopped during the spawning season?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e766	All surveys carried out in winter 1998-99 suggest that the population of Norwegian Arctic cod is smaller than expected from the stock assessment in autumn 1998. In particular, spawning populations in 2000 and 2001 may be low, both because the measurements indicate that this year's spawning stock is less than expected and because of the relatively small number of fish in the year classes to be matured in the coming years. The final answer to the researchers’ calculation of the status of cod in the Barents Sea will not be available until the harvest in the ordinary advice for fishing in 2000. Norwegian fishing authorities are responsible for ensuring a reasonable operational basis for all groups. This also applies to the trawl fleet. Biologically speaking, there is no evidence that trawling is more dangerous for spawning than other fish. Consequently, on the basis of a pure biological assessment, there is no basis for excluding the trawl fleet from this fishing. Whether this type of tool should be excluded during the spawning period for other reasons would be a purely distributive issue. Here, advice from fishermen’s organisations will have to weigh heavily. I would also like to point out that, on the ground of the Mosque, there is a hazing between trawls and fixed gears, which means that significant parts of this important spawning area are banned from trawling during winter fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e775	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and note that he does not see beam as a great danger on the gutter field. In the case of the Mosque base, the zone works so that when the net boats pull up the nets, the trawls are there and take the field immediately. That's what happened in winter. But if the Council of State believes that jets are not harmful to spawning grounds, then is it all right to beam both at Henningswärstraumen and at Hølla, and to some extent also at Nappstraumen and at Breivikfjorden? It's also a spawning ground.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e784	Now we have a ban on trawl fishing within 4 nautical miles, and it's stuck. It is for many reasons that we have such a ban, so I can hardly see that it is related to the question that has been raised. In the case of harmful fishing on the spawning stock on spawning grounds, one might well agree that the best thing for a wild stock would be that it was not taxed. Any fish is an intervention in the population, which will reduce it. We do not yet have research evidence that can lead to the conclusion that fishing with different tools has different levels of damage to the spawning process, but of course it cannot be ruled out that that can be the case. But let me just say that the cod spawns pelagic. Trawl fishing is a bottom fishing, so as a matter of fact, the trawling gear itself will not interfere with the spawning process itself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e791	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I share his view in part. With regard to the ban on radiation within 4 miles, it is precisely in view of the fact that trawls are a very active tool, and therefore in order to protect, inter alia, the spawning stock. It is strange to note, then, that fish that spawn for a short period of time – it is about. three weeks – less likely to be damaged by trawls outside the 4-mile limit than within. It's about what I said, a very active tool, and it's at least in the eyes of the fishermen, and certainly also in the eyes of the Minister of Fisheries if he thinks about a little bit and goes by himself, obvious that fishing on a spawning ground with jets, hurts the gyting far more than a drag line, yarn or, to some extent, juxtaposition. If the council doesn't dare to say it in Stortinget, I'm sure we'll agree when we get into the cafeteria.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e798	Let me just first make it clear that we have a ban on trawls within 4 miles, has nothing to do with the spawning process of the cod. It's a completely different relationship. It has a historical context, how we have regulated fishing back in time and especially in relation to international fishing along the coast. When it comes to the spawning process on the Mosque soil, I just want to say that the Mosque soil is a very small part of the area where the cod spawn along the coast. It is very focused on the Mosque grounds because it is a good fishing area, where you want to participate with all tool types. I will claim to have been in favour of the fixed gears, as the Mosque grounds themselves have been covered with fixed tools. It is true that the limits have been moved as the amount of tools has evolved. I can't have any idea if the border movement is right and fair. It has, as I said, happened, but I will reject the claim that trawling on the Mosque grounds is essential for the spawning process of the cod.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e808	I allow myself to address the following questions to the Minister of Finance: «According to a statement in the Harstad Official Journal on Friday 23 April 1999, a younger woman in the district of Bjarkøy who is in a state of disembarkation has been rejected three times by the municipality's public register when she has registered a transfer to the father's farm on Flavoya where there are today only two permanent residents. The population register has a number of objections to the woman's wish to be registered on Flaøya. Will the Council of State take the necessary initiatives to give the woman the opportunity to be registered as a national citizen at the farm on Flaøya as she wishes?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e817	Where persons are to be registered as residents must be determined by the legislation in place and not by the place where they wish to be registered. Of course, this is not a question of forced or unauthorised movement, but of the practice of the existing legislation. The matter in question concerns disagreement about the fact that the woman moved from the cemetery on the island Flavoy in Bjarkøy municipality. She has a teaching job in Harstad, and she's lonely. The population register has assumed that because of the work she also has a self-catering dwelling in Harstad, and that she must be assumed to have more overnight stays in this dwelling than in the father's yard. Following the so-called day rest bar applicable to loners, such an actual relationship shall lead to the registration of residence in Harstad. The woman claims that she does not have her own living quarters in Harstad, and that she mainly commutes the day between the father's yard and Harstad to take care of her teaching job. If this fact is taken into account, the daily rest is reversed, and she should be registered at the cemetery. Of course, I can't go into such a disagreement about fact. The public register must base its assessment of evidence on the most likely facts after taking all relevant information into account. If the woman is not satisfied with this assessment of evidence, she may ask that the matter be referred to the People's Register's Chief Executive Officer in the tax administration. Of course, she can also assess whether she can provide better evidence that she is actually a day commuter and not a weekly commuter. As far as the legislation is concerned, I would remind you that the Ministry of Finance has to assess whether the criteria for the registration of lone weekly commuters should be softened, so that housing in the municipality of residence is more easily passed on to housing in the municipality of employment. I will come back to Stortinget with this legislative theme for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e830	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree that where people should be registered as residents must be determined in relation to the existing legislation. I also note that the People's Register does not have the authority or the possibility of forced displacement or unauthorized entry. I am pleased with the last part of the response from the Council of State, where he suggested that he would consider whether the criteria for the residence registration of lone week commuters should be softened, so that housing in the municipality of residence would be more easily passed on to housing in the municipality of employment, and that he would return to Stortinget with the legislative theme for the autumn. My question is whether the Council of State could already suggest what he thinks in that regard.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e841	The topic that we now have to assess in the Ministry of Finance, what to consider to be a boppel, is so complicated that it is difficult for me to already suggest something certain about what the result will be. But my assessment is that it has been unreasonable that you might have a very good home in your municipality, for example. The inheritance from the parents, where you live so true and as often as it is possible, and then work in another municipality and have there – I shall call it – a ‘minor’ dwelling, but where it is, among other things. are cooking facilities, which is one of the criteria used today to consider housing in the municipality of employment as one's real home, and must therefore be regarded as resident there. That's what we now have to try to figure out something more. The problem is that you can risk walking from one ditch, which I must say is that today we feel that we are in, and right into the other ditch, where it will make sense that it is the home of the municipality of residence that more or less always will be the dwelling in which you are to be considered to live, even if – almost – it is only a holiday home.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e851	I will ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: «The total costs of the Eastern Region shall be submitted to the Grand total in one of the fixed budgetary and investment proposals, reads St.meld. [[1998-99]] No 11 Can the Council of States confirm that this results in correctness and that the action will not be initiated before the adoption of a budget decision?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e860	When examining the investment projects of the Defence Ministry, the Ministry of Defence shall refer to the Financial Regulations of the Storting and to the powers conferred on it by the annual budgetary and investment proposals. Pursuant to the authority of St.prp. No 1 for the third paragraph of Decision V of 1998-99, all national construction projects exceeding 25 million are presumed. Introducing the Stortinget. The development costs of the previously published regional field project are significantly above this limit and indicate that the project will be submitted to the Stortinget before it starts. In order to develop a project that is sufficiently well-founded to be presented to the Stortinget, the Ministry of Defence, in the fourth paragraph of the Roman Numeral Decision, is given the possibility to initiate the design of construction projects with a total cost of up to 5 pst. of the total allocation of the respective items. In order to follow the decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 23 March of this year, the Ministry has given the Defence Overcommander the task of preparing a preliminary project so that it can be presented to the Grand Duchy during the next winter or spring of 2000. For 1999, funds allocated are capped. Item 47 c. 1760 925 million. NOK 20 million. kr planned to be used for the planning of the region field in 1999 is intended to lie well within the overall framework of the project planning. I can therefore confirm that there will be no development of the Eastern Region without the approval of the project and the cost framework by the Stortinget. In other words, this project will follow the same procedures as the Defence’s other construction projects with a cost of over 25 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e871	I thank you for your answer and for confirming that there will be no further development until there are specific budgetary decisions in the Storting. One of the reasons why this issue was raised is the fact that planning is under way and that in the course of the planning work there is a directive on which defence relates when drawing up these plans. This document is excluded from the public domain, and is, to a large extent, a source of surprise and concern for the local population in which this action is to take place. There is no secret that there is great local resistance to this action, and you fear that there are things happening here that make the table catch, and that you are on the move before the Storting has made its decisions. Will the Council of State take the initiative to make this document open to the public, so that we can avoid misunderstandings about what this plan is all about?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e880	With regard to the project itself, I have given a clear answer that it will not be started. Which document the representative refers to, I am somewhat uncertain about, but it may apply to the implementation of this for the project. If it's of a character that suggests that it can be opened, of course I'll see if it's possible, because that would be a follow-up to the line I have. But I can't say it here and now in any other way than that I want to look into what this document is about, and then make an assessment of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e885	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and for the willingness of the Council of State to look at the content of this launching directive, whether it is possible to get it as a public document. I think that would make a lot of sense. What is the real situation is that the overall economic situation in defence is also such that most projects are insecure and that parts of defence – at least in the media – have declared themselves technically bankrupt. This means that projects adopted by the Storing within the different branches do not necessarily receive funding that is such that they are launched according to the plans. We shall have one thing on which to deal tomorrow. I just want the Council of State to confirm that the actual start of the action as such will not take place until the Storting has granted money for this specific project.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e894	I do not want to benefit from all the information that has emerged in these Focus Programmes. We're going to have to have a more thorough debate on them another time. As far as the field of fire is concerned, the representative is also aware of what decisions the Government has taken, but we are, of course, obliged to implement the majority decision taken in this Chamber. We follow – as I said in my first answer – the procedures for implementing such investment projects that I referred to, which means that we will come back to Stortinget with a final project when the project provides us with a better basis for presenting it to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e904	This question, from the representative of Kristin Halvorsen to the Minister of Defence, will be answered by the Minister of Justice who directs him. The question will be raised by the representative Heikki Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e907	I have a question for the Minister of Justice: ‘Nynazistic groupings carry out bombings targeting immigrants in the United Kingdom. In Norway, it looks like we've had the first racist-motivated killing in history. High-ranking extremists and neo-Nazis also organise themselves in Norway and have committed violence against political activity. What will the Government do to bring down the neo-Nazi environment in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e916	Violent right-wing activities are a priority task for the police. According to their instructions, the police surveillance service has the task of preventing, combating and investigating politically motivated violence. Information on organisations and groups in this environment in Norway is actively being sought. This is done in close cooperation with the other police and cooperating foreign services. In addition, prevention activities in the environment are a high priority. This work is carried out in close cooperation with other departments. I do not want to comment on the issues raised by the representative, but I want to show that they are still under investigation. It is true that persons associated with the far right have committed acts of violence involving immigrants and political opponents. These matters are regularly investigated by the police.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e923	I thank you for your answer. We've been used to the claim that nynazists and right-wing extremists primarily threaten people who have what many call a left-wing opinion. These are the claims that are often made on TV 2 in Focus and the type of programmes. But we also have examples that people from the Minister's party have been threatened. One example is Rita Sletner, who is the leader of Norway’s Left Women’s Team, who went out to warn against nynazists. She was hanged on the website of one of these Nynazist groupings in Norway, where it said: ‘This is a struggle where life can be the final effort. We're not going to rule, Rita Sletner. I have also been subjected to an attack for two weeks back, where I was shut down. I just want to repeat the question: is the Minister of Justice able to do something to show that this is something that concerns a broad group of the Norwegian people, and not just a few?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e933	In the case of individual cases, I always assume that they are notified, and if they are notified, they will be investigated. That's when I said that efforts against the right-hand side of political motivated violence are a priority task of all the police services. As an example of the efforts, I can mention areas where the police have cooperated with other bodies and agencies to combat neo-Nazi environments, among others. in Haugesund and in the Nordstrand area of Oslo, as far as I can see, has produced results. So this is a priority area, and I don't think I can say it stronger than the Council of State, when I say it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e938	One of the problems in relation to such issues as the emergence of neo-Nazist environments is that it often works in such a way that individual tattoos go in separately. My clear view is that there are several things that have to happen at the same time from different levels. You have to be hard on the neo-Nazis, prevent them from recruiting young people at concerts – in that way they have stopped the growth in Sweden – prevent them from spreading racist propaganda, going into and breaking up the environments, just as they have done on the North Beach, working with police and parents and social as soon as it thrives on environments, giving people a real youth offer and job, and doing something about the public school that is in decline, which is helping to disperse young people. The question is whether the Minister of Justice will take an initiative precisely in order to be able to work in a multidisciplinary and multi-departmental manner. Does he share my view that this is what needs to be done?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e943	It is not necessary for me to take an initiative on what is already going on. There is reason to cooperate in such work as this, which is part of the police's so-called prevention work, in the way I outlined in my reply. This is not only true in relation to these environments. I mentioned on purpose two examples from Haugesund and Nordstrand, where you work that way. But in general, the representative can expect me to keep all kinds of politically motivated violence under observation. It is also well known that political killings have been committed from the extreme right of Norway. We've had things on it. That is why I am very attentive to the phenomenon.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e955	This question, from the representative Kristin Halvorsen to the Minister of Defence, will be raised by the representative Heikki Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e958	I have a question for the Minister of Defence: ‘The regime of trustees in the Defence was last revised in the Stortingen 25 years ago. The participation and user involvement requirements of society have changed. The system has not been involved in development and has not given the soldiers sufficient opportunity to influence the soldier's life. There's a reason soldiers' demands rarely come into public searchlights. Will the Government review the defence trusteeship system with a view to improving the ability of soldiers in service to be heard and to have their demands enforced?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e967	I must admit that it comes as a great surprise to me that the trusteeship system should not have followed developments and not give soldiers good enough opportunities for influence over the soldier's life. For approx. two years ago, a government-approved sample presented a setting containing a number of proposals of vital importance to the guardians in their daily lives. The National Committee of Trustees in the Defence Agency issued an opinion after a thorough examination of the Trustees' Scheme, including: about the setting: ‘The National Committee of Trustees in Defence is pleased to note that the HAAKER Committee has issued a recommendation which, in a thorough and comprehensive manner, proposes a number of measures to improve the status of the protected persons. This approach provides a good basis for bringing about the establishment of a historic promise of the protection obligation. The national committee notes that the recommendations of the sample have been well received in the policy environment.The national committee of trustees in the Defence Committee agrees with the main lines of the sample recommendations and assumes that the short- and long-term actions of the sample are followed up.’ The first stage of the follow-up was dealt with in Stortinget last spring and included. that the service supplement was increased from NOK 72.50 to NOK 90.40 per. day(s) At the same time, an additional free leave was introduced. I have let myself say that last year's National Conference of Trustees received the government's follow-up with long standing applause. I am also not familiar with the picture the representative draws when I read the Defence Manager's annual report for 1998 and the Ombudsman's name for the defence report to the Parliament for the same year. The reference given by both of these documents to the trusteeship arrangements does not at all reflect the general characteristics of the representative. In a short time, the government will present to Stortinget a proposition such as this. contains stage 2 in the follow-up to the previously mentioned selection setting and proposals for the regulation of the primary remuneration of the guardians. I expect that the representative will take advantage of the opportunity to make known the weaknesses he believes exist in providing soldiers in service with a better opportunity to make their demands known.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e995	That's probably the closest thing to coming up with a slaughter of a question from this pulpit. I thank you for your answer. That's fine. I thought I would say that it was a good point to address just the issues in which the trustee system has been allowed to participate in the public samples, where politicians have also been involved. It has worked very positively, and it has come out very well of the work that was done. However, I also see that under paragraph 26 of the Swedish Defence Agency's business plan on action, it is proposed to assess the local part of the trustees' system in the Defence. It's all right, but there's nothing on how to evaluate it. There is nothing about who should be assessed, and there is nothing about why only the local part of the trusteeship system should be assessed. I would like to ask for answers to those questions and would like to elaborate myself on what I mean. The last time this was reviewed in a large monn, was in St. gemeld. No 73 for 1973-74. There is a lot of talk that this year, too, should carry out that kind of evaluation work in a big message.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1006	The trusteeship arrangement referred to in the question is said to be 25 years old. This is true initially, but it has, after all, been revised many times over the last few years, the last time in 1994, and there is an up-to-date and developed system. On the issue of a comprehensive review, the question was raised at the Landesconference last year. At the same time, it was pointed out that what was most demanding, and which gave the greatest imbalance, was the departmental structure of the local joint. The Ministry has therefore assessed it in order to review the local section and its imbalance already in the 1999 action plan, in order to be able to carry it out in due course. But this is resource-intensive, and so you haven't seen it possible to do it in 1999. But one takes on that part of the trusteeship system that was initially described as the biggest problem. Otherwise, I have the impression that the trustees should of course be heard. If it's neglected at any point, of course, it needs to be clarified and inculcated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1015	The Council of State refers to the National Conference last year. It is true that a sample was asked to be set up to assess the functioning of the trusteeship system as a whole. I would ask that the Minister of Defence be so generous as to comply with the wishes of the elected representatives. I would also like to remind you that, once again, this national conference is made up of representatives from both the Defence, the soldiers and the order. And it's strange how a point in the business plan, which started so openly and clearly, has been shaved down to a point that it's only the local part of the trust management system that's to be reviewed. The construction of the trusteeship system is very special at the central level. It is an organization in which the foremost figures for the soldiers are de facto subject to the department. In any case, the department’s representative, who will be the authority of the trustee scheme, will be both the head of the arrangement with the ability to oversee the trustees and the person against whom the trustees work. This is a unique double role that should be done after 25 years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1026	The President will ask the representative to be kind and remember that he has speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1029	With regard to the repeated requirement to go through the scheme as a whole, I referred to the fact that it was blocked for resource reasons. It's a lot of work to do it in its entirety. I didn't say we weren't going to do that, but we decided to deal with what was the most urgent thing about the imbalance today. With regard to the ability of the elected representatives to make their views known to the authorities, I believe there are good opportunities for doing so through the arrangement we now have. But that does not mean, of course, that you have got a yes to implement all of your requirements. With regard to the National Conference held in Horten this year, I will have a meeting with the National Committee of Trustees in the Defence/Secretariat before this meeting, and I will probably also be presented with the requirements directly to me and thus get a more direct personal contact with them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1041	I would like to ask the following questions to Minister of Justice Dørum: ‘Bigami is a criminal offence in Norway. Nevertheless, Muslim men and others are able to import more women into the country with which you are married, or are married while living in the country. In particular, the Jungeltel telegraph deals with the relevant ways of circumventing laws in the immigrant communities. Governments are said to be monitoring the scale of the problem. What will the Council of State do outside the monitoring, so that the Norwegian law on the prohibition of Bigami can be strengthened and then complied with?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1050	It follows from Section 4 of the Marriage Act that there is an absolute prohibition on remarriage as long as the previous marriage lasts. Bigami is punishable by Section 220 of the Criminal Code and can be punished by imprisonment for up to four years, or for up to six years if the other spouse was unaware that the marriage was contrary to the Bigami ban. Participation is also punishable. This provision shall also apply where persons residing in Norway evade the Norwegian conditions by marriage abroad. There are public charges in such cases. Furthermore, false explanation and use of false or falsified documents — or their involvement — could be affected by the penal code §§ 166 and 182, which has a criminal framework of two and four years, respectively. Here, too, the charge is unconditionally public. The official figures on bigamies are low. During the period 1990-1999, the Ministry of Children and the Family have had 14 possible treatment-related Bigamists, 8 of whom were sent to the county for further treatment. The last time was in 1996. However, press releases recently indicate great darkness. There is therefore a need to identify the extent of Bigami, as far as possible. The Ministry of Justice will cooperate with other departments and the necessary bodies to try to achieve this. The press releases on bigami also deal with situations that are not contrary to Norwegian marriage law. These are the cases where a person is legally divorced under Norwegian law but not under Muslim law and then remarried in Norway. According to Norwegian rules, this is not bigami. In the case of managers who have committed marriages in breach of Norwegian legislation, the Ministry of Church, Education and Research has set up a working group with representatives from the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the County of Oslo and Akershus. The Group shall consider what can be done to strengthen the follow-up of authorities by approving supervisors and penalties in the event of a default of public authority, including marriage cases. I would like to stress that, in my opinion, this is about a minority of cases among immigrants. I think the vast majority, an overwhelming majority, will be prepared to fight this problem, and I would therefore ask the Norwegian imamer to take responsibility for clearing up the problems of bigami. Of course, I have also registered with great pleasure the strong reactions that have recently come from important figures in the immigrant community in this context. I would like to stress that it is important for the imams, together with the Norwegian authorities, to address the problems. I would also like to look at how the county and the foreign authorities should follow up on Bigam cases with notification. In my opinion, follow-up and penalties are primarily in accordance with the legislation we already have, and information about this, the way to go to solve the problem. Some measures in the action plan against coerciveness may be extended to include the problem of bigamis. This could relate to information, dialogue and interaction actions, assistance actions, training, the role of foreign stations, research and documentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1067	I thank the Council of State for the answer. If foreigners who come to the country do not comply with Norwegian law, and that, for example, imams, which were also in the Council of State, do not solve the problems of polycony, Norwegian authorities should look at the marriage rights of mosques. I guess it's really the dangerous way to go to prevent polycony in a civilized society. At a closed meeting on polygamy in Oslo, it has been said by a police chief that it has been raised beyond any doubt that bigami and polygamy are practiced on a large scale throughout the country. This is due to the family laws that immigrants bring with them to the country and that they practice in the case of multi-wifery. Will the Council consider deporting non-Norwegian citizens to their country of origin if you want to practice polycony in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1076	Let me because of the nature of the question say the following: A citizen is a citizen regardless of colour and background, and a criminal is a criminal regardless of colour and background. I am not referring to generalisations in relation to crimes. I have as my starting point that most citizens are law-abiding – including immigrants. I have as my starting point that an overwhelming majority of imams will be involved in clearing up this, which does not have coverage in relation to Norwegian law, but also in relation to Muslim understanding of Muslim law, where it is clearly stated that you should comply with the laws of the country in which you are located. I assume there's a large number of people who want to set up with me to clean up this. That's my starting point. If you break Norwegian law, you have to take the consequences according to the legislation we have on all specific points. That's how I think. And I assume, of course, that all people who have strong moral and good will are preparing to clean up something that must be a provocation. I would also like to add that it is important that, in specific cases, we proceed in such a way that the Bigamist is not left with all the rights, but for example. women are finally left with all the problems. I'm against any kind of female oppression, even in the contexts that have been drawn out here, whether it is direct or indirect. And you can trust that I'm going to pursue this with considerable commitment and intensity.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1085	It is good that the Council of State and I have the same view of women in this area, it promises well. The extent of bigamies that follow some distant cultures gives rise to the considerations that were also addressed by the Council of State. First of all, Bigami constitutes a clear crime in itself, and it becomes no more moral if multiple marriages are exploited for further circumvention of the laws. What's an ethical problem is the effect of bigami. Those who commit the crime have the best chance of profiting from it. Regardless of religion or view of life, an absolute obligation should be to notify the Norwegian authorities of the concluded marriage pact. I believe that the Council of State does not find it unreasonable or discriminatory to demand that Norwegian law be followed on all points, including in the case of bigami.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1092	In Norway, a simple rule applies: If you live here, you have to comply with Norwegian law, no matter who you are and what background you have. It's very simple, and so it has to be. What can be particularly challenging and offensive in relation to bigamists is that it can look like the bigamist has all the rights, while the abuser has all the duties in different contexts. Of course, we can't live by the fact that rules are being circumvented or abused, no matter what the context is. It must be so simple, clear and clear. My starting point is that all people who are good citizens will stand up with me to clean up this. And that's absolutely necessary to do. Of course, that's why I got involved in the matter, based on my general understanding that we cannot accept the violation of women that this is all about. And I have to repeat that it doesn't matter where it comes from, female oppression I will fight whether it has a direct or indirect form. It's just as inedible anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1104	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: «The Government has undertaken to secure a job for all students who complete their studies at the Police College this semester. How far has the Ministry of Justice been prepared to follow up this commitment, and when does the Council of State estimate that the students who want it can be in permanent employment at the country's Police Chamber and Länsmann's offices?»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1111	In the context of the revised national budget, the government has asked the government to submit proposals to enable fully-trained high school police students to be offered positions in order to reduce crime. This is a matter that will be dealt with in the revised national budget, which will come on Monday, and therefore I cannot now address different aspects of the issue raised, other than to say that it will find its very comprehensive treatment there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1116	It was a highly unsatisfactory answer. I am, of course, aware that the money allocation must be in the revised national budget submitted in a short time, but my question was how far the preparations had gone. Because it's possible to make some preparations. In today's evening post it appears via the head of the Police Union that there are 150-200 job vacancies that have not yet been published. These posts have been available for a long time, and my question is: Why have these posts not been published yet? One more thing: in the past, funds for job vacancies have been used to cover variable expenditure by some policy frameworks. When you then occupy these positions, which I guess will be done, you will often find yourself in a situation where you lack operational resources. I would ask the Council of State to pay attention to this issue, and I hope that he will do something in the form of an increase in the operating resources.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1127	It must be seen as satisfactory that a case is presented in the revised national budget, where it is dealt with properly. It goes without saying that you always have a running management of the resources you have. But funds do not exist until they are dealt with in the Storting and granted by the Storing. In general, we must say about all those who are going to have a position in the police, that they must have firm and orderly relationships around this, as well as people who are being trained at the Police College. We have no general interest in them getting into temporary situations, we have an interest in them getting into fixed and orderly situations. Of course, I'm working on these questions in general, and with this as a background. The representative Simonsen knows that the revised national budget will come on Monday 10 May, i.e. in five days, and I want to repeat what I said: the matter will have its proper and comprehensive treatment there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1136	The size has already decided that all students should be guaranteed jobs. And then there should not have been anything wrong with the fact that the vacancies had already been published, so that the students can get to work faster when they finish their exams. My supplementary question is about the positions to which money has already been allocated, for example at the Oslo Police Chamber. Why haven't they been published yet?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1141	The police are governed by the general budgetary conditions they have, and the budget is known in the budget procedure of the Grand Duchy. Further consideration of the budget shall be given to the revised national budget. This is the police's guide, and it is generally in that posts are to be filled. If there are then temporary arrangements, I assume that there are local reasons for this, but the general thing is, of course, that what the Stortinge has said should be followed up – as are the rules. But the very special thing about the police high school students – to go back to the past – is that the Stortinge here actually goes across the general target management of the system and will thus instruct that this is done. Then I have to be absolutely sure that that is what will be the situation, how it will be treated and how it will be covered, and, as I say, it is a subject that will be comprehensive and well addressed when we present the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1149	This question, from the representative of Ingvald Godal to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Defence who directs him. The question will be raised by the representative Trond Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1154	I ask to ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: ‘On Friday, 9 April 1999, the Newspaper referred to the Court of Law exempting a 2l-year-old good from military service on the basis of an application making it clear that he is not a pacifist, but that he does not want to perform the first-time service. Does the Council of State think that this legal decision gives rise to an assessment of changes to the current legislation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1163	The question in question seems to refer to a case decided by Gulating Lawyers' Court in its judgment of 24 March 1999. The case concerned an appeal in a criminal case, in which a conscientious objector was released after charges of violation of the Military Criminal Code § 35. The guardian had failed to meet after calling for a first-time service, and he was found guilty in the case at first instance when the case was dealt with by Voss's right of jurisdiction. I do not wish to comment on this verdict, but I have noticed that the Warrior has not found sufficient reason to recommend any appeal for review of the law to the majority of the Lawyers' Court as regards the content of Section 3 of the Military Nectar Act. A clarification of the legal issue in question is believed to have less prima facie significance for the future. This is due to the fact that, following a revision of the Military Deny Act, a different regime is now being introduced for the determination of applications for military service exemption for reasons of persuasion. When the new arrangement enters into force, it will no longer be such that the obligation to attend will automatically be suspended by the submission of an application for exemption from military service for reasons of persuasion. I stress that in this case no decision has been made as to whether the guardian in this case has a conviction that can exempt him from military service for reasons of conviction. It is a question that belongs in a different context and that will have to be determined according to the provision of military right clause 1 and in relation to the practice associated with it. So it's a wrong presentation of this case when it's referred to as a... I'm sorry, I think I must have changed my order of sheets. So I don't want to comment on the matter, but I think it won't have a fundamental significance, as this will be changed by revision of the military law, which is now out for consultation. I'm sorry about that mess.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1180	It's not that good when there's another questioner and another answer than it really should have been. In any case, I thank you for the answer, and accept that it is the military law § 3 – and not § 1 – that underlies the judgment to which it is referred. But the question then becomes the attitude of people to the duty of protection. It is important, and this kind of look-up does not exactly strengthen the belief in the duty of protection and the position of the duty of protection. I therefore ask for clarification from the Minister of Defence; there may be a need for clarification as to what grounds for exemption provide the basis for escaping military service. After all, the government has created the impression that the obligation of protection is not an obligation, but a choice between civil service and a duty of protection. The concept of civil protection is an example of this. The newspaper's headline on 9 April is an NTB message, distributed to all the country's newspapers. Does not the Minister of Defence feel the need to correct this look-up that spreads the impression that terms such as ‘I don’t want’ are enough to get military service exemption?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1191	I have also seen the NTB message. I don't want to go into a court order at this level. I've just registered that the war lawyer has so far chosen not to appeal, and does not want to comment on it further. What I want to comment on is that under the Military Nectering Act, which is now under review, you actually have to do a completely different procedure on how to act if you want an exemption, you shouldn't be exempted by just not showing up. This is now for consultation, and if the hearing opinions are followed, you will be actively involved in a completely different way and require a signature on a declaration by those who request exemption. But I ask for an understanding that I can first explain what this could be after the hearing has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1198	I am very pleased with the signal that was given that the attendance obligation is not automatically suspended by submitting a request for exemption. The Council of State said that she could not say more about this system now, but that it is being consulted. I hope that it will also mean that we avoid the kind of things that are referred to here. However, I think there might be reason to call for the more fundamental position of the Minister of Defence on this matter with reasons for exemption. On a general basis, it could sometimes be good for the Minister of Defence and Defence to be able to move out and actually draw attention to the reasons for exemptions that are valid when one receives that kind of notice in the newspapers. Because when a guy gets a look-up of the type Artig-Per left the military because he didn't want to, he wouldn't spend a year in South Varanger because it was so far away, etc., you get the attitude out there among people that now military service is about an optional exercise that you can choose to take, or not take. And that should be avoided.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1205	It's clear that if we were to jump after all the polite headlines that come in the press, we got it even more busy as state councils. But I get the basics of the representative's question. In this case, it is not that there are criteria for exemptions that are too liberal. My colleague in the Ministry of Justice and I have calmed down that new rules are being drawn up. But if on some occasion there is a need to clarify our attitude to the waiver and to the duty of protection, I will make sure that it is done, but then on a more correct basis than that contained in this communication.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1213	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘If publishers start producing cheap or free school books through the use of advertising in school books, this is likely to result in a higher cost reduction for those who choose courses with many students than for those who choose untraditionally. The best way to prevent such differences from developing in school is to set up a free schoolbook loan scheme. Will the Government review a system of free school books in the light of the debate on advertising in school books?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1222	The debate on advertising in textbooks raises many fundamental questions. One of these is what Konglevoll's representative refers to, namely that the funding of the advertising of textbooks can have unfortunate consequences for some student groups. Section 9-4 of the Training Act states that textbooks used in the school should be approved by the Ministry. No one today can count on having textbooks approved with advertising. I know that there are still some support literature with advertising. Such material falls outside the approval system. In the pressa it is shown that Sweden has advertising-funded textbooks. According to the Swedish Ministry of Education, there is no ordinary system of advertising funded textbooks. There are some theme books that are advertised and distributed free of charge to the schools. This type of book does not compete with the ordinary textbooks, but is used as support literature. However, the Ministry of Education does not ignore the fact that there are cases where companies have given textbooks to local schools. In this case, the ordinary textbooks are bought by the firm, which pastes advertising in front or back of the books and then gives them to the schools. The wealth of our country differs from Sweden in a number of fields, so that schemes can't easily be evaluated on the same line. We've got a lot of things to do. various forms of objectives to be taken into account. In addition, supply structures in continuing training are such that we need books with very small editions, and there may be a question as to whether any advertising funding would seem fair, as was also the questioner. In the basic sphere, I also have fundamental objections to such an arrangement, and will go consistently against advertising-funded textbooks there. However, as the cost of textbooks is high for the elephants and parents in the secondary school, I will assess this more closely before I reject all forms of advertising funding there, even though I am initially also very skeptical, based on the conditions I have previously mentioned. As the representative of Konglevoll is aware, the issue of the loan of textbooks was dealt with by the Stortinget in December 1997, and rejected. I can't see that the media debate on funding the advertising of textbooks has brought forward new elements to ensure that the student-paid textbooks system is reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1237	Now I became a little uncertain about what the Council of State meant. At first he said that the department was going to make sure that books with advertising in did not come to be approved by the National Educational Centre, while at the end of the article he said that you might have to open up advertising in the school books anyway. I would like to ask the Council of State to clarify in a clear and clear way whether he is in favour of advertising funded school books, or whether he is against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1244	What I did first, was to clarify what the law says. The Department does not have the power to approve textbooks with advertising per. date, and therefore, of course, it will not be done. Nor will I be able to think of making any suggestion that there should be any such thing in the future when it comes to the foundation. It is a compulsory school, and I also thought that the advertising press is large enough. When it comes to the continuing school, it's quite clear that it's quite expensive for both the elephants and the parents, and even though I'm very skeptical there, I've said that I want to make a more thorough assessment before I completely cancel the possibility of taking up such a proposal for discussion. It's unlikely that it's going to happen, but I won't quite leave that door.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1251	I'm recording that the Council of State in advance of the assessment is skeptical. To the extent that there is a lack of a government council concerned with intangible values, it should not be skeptical that Coca-Cola and Libresse should pay for school books through lifestyle advertising. The Labour Party, like the Council of State, is skeptical that this could be the development. The difference is that we have an alternative, namely to put in place a free lending scheme for school books, which we proposed 50 million. kr. Could not I'm just saying that the Council of States can open up advertising, and that he has no alternative whatsoever to meet this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1258	As far as I am concerned, as far as I am concerned from the debate referred to by the representative, Mr Konglevoll, some aspects of a possible lending arrangement were clarified by the department, which would have monthly costs far beyond the sum of the representatives, Mr Konglevoll, now referred to. An option to do this is for the further level of school. What's common to both of these proposals is that they require monthly financial coverage. I don't see that this is what needs to be prioritised first, insofar as we have extra resources to invest in the further education. So I have options in relation to what could be used, but I've said that that's not the top priority right now. And then we'll see what we can find for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1268	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘At country level, there is today a problem with recruiting teachers both in the elementary school and in the secondary school. The continuing school in More and Romesdal is the worst framework for recruiting teachers. In particular, it is difficult to get teachers in the professional field. This is a dangerous development. How will the Council of State help to make the profession of learning more attractive?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1277	On 12 March 1998 the Stortinget adopted the following decisions: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit a separate action plan for recruitment to the teacher’s profession. The action plan must contain assessments of all aspects of the teacher's working conditions and measures to ensure both new recruitment and stability in the teacher's profession.» At several times I have verbally said in Stortinget that I would like to submit such a plan in a separate message to Stortinget. I have written notice that the message is planned in ours. In the ministry, we put the last hand in the draft of the message in these days. I intend that she may be submitted by the Government before the summer vacation. In this message I want show how the teacher coverage is in day-to-day developmental researcher analyses and provide my assessments of the teacher situation with an action plan to ensure future teacher coverage I don't think it's right today to go into what kind of measures we want to put forward. What I can say is that the message will contain several measures both to ensure access to the teaching profession and to influence the flexibility and working conditions of the school in a positive way. I hope the representative of Kaland is satisfied with this for so long, and then we can come back to the discussion when the message is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1306	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I will promise to read his recruitment message carefully. I felt that it was a small teacher who came up with the answer that I received, but I take note of that – I have not followed well enough in the class. But I've had some problem-settings from my own states that More and Romsdal have a lot of problems with recruiting teachers, and especially on teachers with real-life skills at the youth school stage. They also see that the number of seekers e.g. at Volda Teacher's College has fallen by approx. 50 pst. the last two years. It is also about approx. 40 pst. teachers are over 50 years old, so they are now a little tired of long-term health messages, and some are also ill. This is a serious problem. That's why I think that a better working environment for both teachers and students at school, a better education offer and perhaps also a relief of the workload for teachers who are over 50 years old, is something they need to take with them. The measures I am happy to discuss with and when the recruitment message is available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1315	To the extent that the representative of Kaland experienced that the schoolmaster said that she had not followed in the hour, that was not what was meant by my answer – that was to give information. I think it is commendable that a representative from a district addresses the problems that print in the district. In the case of professional trainers, what the representative says is quite right. One thing we hope to remedy is that we now, as one measure, have started a new apprenticeship. So the relationships and aspirations that the representative of Kaland now pointed to are clearly relevant to the situation and will be dealt with in the message. I mean, every thing that leads to attention about what needs to be done is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1327	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘The framework plans for nursing training continue to be withheld. What is the rationale of the Council of State for this?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1336	The Ministry of the Church, Education and Research aimed at establishing a new framework for basic education in nursing care no in spring, with a view to starting from the autumn of. It is right that the final approval is withheld, so that the new framework plan could be put into effect at the earliest from the autumn of 2000. The proposal for a framework plan contains elements that, according to the department's assessment, will represent a significant increase in the cost of the higher spheres. It applies to measures that the Ministry of Justice believes are important to strengthen the teaching of practice and such fines on the alleged lack of functionality and practical skills of the newcomers. The Ministry will continue to work to clarify the economic consequences, and to find cover for them within the budgetary framework. First, this is the background for the postponement, and not that the department will make major changes in the content of the present proposal, which has been heard by the institutions. In the case of health education, they are required to provide a basis for the health authorities to authorise health professionals. This is a moment when one of these framework plans should have guidelines that help to ensure that graduates hold a minimum standard. The proposal for a framework plan has also been made by the health authorities, who joined the main features of the plan. I would also like to show that we are now hearing a report on measures to strengthen the practical training of nurses. An advantage of postponing the framework plan is that it can be seen in the context of these measures. The framework proposal includes e.g.: increase the standard of practice. This raises the question related to the availability of practical sites. One of the proposals in this report from the Mekki Committee is the establishment of an agency to coordinate the provision of training places for health and social workers, both in secondary and higher education. The Ministry has stated in the letter to the Hearing Officers that we are particularly interested in comments on this, and on how such an instance can work. If the feedback in the hearing is positive, this is one of the things I want to see closer to and think about implementing. The Ministry is aware that many high schools have come a long way in working on the subject plans drawn up on the basis of submitted to the framework plan which was sent to the audience. If there are high schools that strongly want to start from the fall and are able to do so within existing budgetary frameworks, the ministry will evaluate this on an application basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1349	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it was positive that he did not make a curve jump, but said quite specifically that it is the economic situation and that it will cost money, which means that nurse training as well as the only professional training now does not have a new framework plan. We have to take that inwards, because they have to have a framework plan. I then expect that there must be arrangements in the state budget so that the next harvest can be started with the new framework plan. That state council mentioned when it came to a practice selection in each state, I think it is very positive. I would also like to ask the Council of State to assess this when it comes to operating input-driven funding at the schools, if he does not see that guidance from students can now come in a very easy way, because it is not paid. What will the Minister of Education be able to do about it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1356	I think the representative Grete Knudsen is right that a very quick one comes in a row. I hope that a better organisation at any practice centre can be one tool. Furthermore, it is clear that it would have been desirable if one could have schemes similar to those of a number of other professional training courses in the case of the counsellors. It'll be an economic question again, so I don't want to go further in the answer today than I have now. But that it is a matter that must be included in the overall assessment, I agree with the representative Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1361	I am pleased with the answer given by the Council of State in terms of practice selection. Perhaps you can already get some of them to – as soon as you can – if it's a wish from the counties. Then you get that experience, and it doesn't cost the big money. I also hope that we will come back to the places of practice, including in the case of compensation, to provide hospital guidance, and that not all other professionals – whether those who care for help, caregivers or others – will receive practice and be compensated for this, but not the nurses. It's an injustice that we have to be willing to rectify.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1368	To the last representative Grete Knudsen said, I refer to what I said in my first answer – there will then be a chance to come back to life. When it comes to the question of whether any of these practice guidance offices can already get started, I am open to it. If there are applications for action in the framework plan – if they are also looking for it, or only if it is – I am concerned that we can start trying to do it, while we are working on it as a national scheme. To the extent that there are states that want to make such an application, I will take a positive view of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1379	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘It is apparent from a NTNU study that Norwegian girls use PC and Internet at least of all girls in the Nordic region. Will the Council of State take any action on the occasion of the case to prevent Norwegian girls from being followed?"
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1388	On behalf of IBM, the Norwegian Gallup Institute AS carried out a study of ICT use among young people aged 16-24 in the Nordic countries in January 1999. The study shows, among other things: in fact, Norwegian youth have slightly less access to PC than youth in Finland, Denmark and Sweden. In Finland, 93 pst. of young people accessing the PC, while there are 88 pst. in Norway. The differences are there, but they're small. The study also shows that in Finland and Denmark, more young people have access to PCs at school than in Norway, and that in general, Norwegian youth benefit from ICT slightly less than young people in Finland, Sweden and Denmark. As the Norwegian youth overall appears to be using ICT slightly less than youth in the other Nordic countries, it is not expected that Norwegian girls will use ICT less than girls in the other countries. After the compilations shown in the press, Norwegian girls may appear to be using the equipment to a lesser extent than for Finnish girls, for example. This may also be related to the fact that ICT use is more integrated in Finland than in Norway. We have no access to data that shows details of the ICT use of girls in the other Nordic countries. The access to and use of ICT by girls is central to the provision of ICT in Norwegian education. The Nordic differences that we see will be studied closer. That girls use ICT less and have less interest in ICT than boys, we've known for a long time, and we've done something about it. As part of the action plan for ICT in education, a number of measures have been launched in recent years to stimulate girls to take an interest in and use the PC and the Internet. R & D work has been started in the primary school and in further training. Own continuing education and training facilities are established for female teachers. In order to increase the number of women to choose right-level IT education, special recruitment measures have been undertaken at universities. Gradually, we have gained knowledge of how ICT can be used in a way that increases the needs of both girls and boys. The Ministry is now preparing a brochure where lessons from project work will be gathered, and where teachers will receive advice and tips on how ICT can be integrated into education so that girls also become interested in the use. In the autumn, the Ministry will organise the third conference in line with women teachers. The Women's and Data Conference provides a searchlight for women's teachers with their experience of using ICT in school. The aim of the conference is also to disseminate good girl-righted measures, so that experience can benefit more elephants and teachers. In the field of ICT, the Ministry will follow up and try to balance the differences between girls and boys that the IBM report appears to show.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1405	Let me thank the Council of State for a full answer. Obviously, if the gap between boys and girls in the use of and in knowledge of new technology gets big, it's a serious problem. It is also a problem for us if Norwegian youth uses and can less about new technologies than young people in the countries around us. Without bringing it up to a national disaster in the short term, it's important that we put that issue in a particular focus. The survey has asked for a review of the level of IT education at all levels of the school. I can imagine asking how the Council of State intends to get back to Stortinget with this, and whether the Stortinget will be invited to participate and get information about the processes that the Department is doing to get girls in Norway more interested in using ICT.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1414	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Norvoll for the nuance of the issue. Because there's no drama in this today. But the fact that we're hanging out a little bit after the other Nordic countries doesn't make sense. So I totally agree with him that it should sharpen both the government council, the government, us as the nation and the government. It is quite right that the Storting has been concerned about the problem, and I have said that we will come back in the course of the year with a renewal of the action plan. I have not yet decided in what way I want to inform Stortinget. It may be in the State budget, in a separate document or with any other of the Stortinget's orders. What's quite clear is that I'm going to invite Stortinget to further development.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1424	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In order to ensure the equal treatment of Norwegian and foreign operators in the mail order market and the security of Norwegian jobs, VAT was introduced from 1 March 1999 for mail order shipments to Norway as well. Unfortunately, this has resulted in unintended effects with increased red tape and costs, inter alia, because Posten Norge BA imposes a fee of $80. Can the Council of State explain by which authority The Post Norway BA may charge a fee for the collection of VAT?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1433	The Postal Regulation of 1 July 1997 provides that the Ministry of Transport is to approve postal charges only for domestic priority letters. This means that the Board of Directors of the Item may, as part of its ordinary business activities, determine all other post and fee rates. This also applies to the charge for customs treatment of goods from abroad. It follows that the basis of collection is the decision-making authority of the Board of Directors in the ordinary course of business. As a service for individuals, the Post automatically provides customs clearance for consignments from abroad. From 1 March 1999, this work, as a consequence of changes in VAT rules for mail orders, was extended to consignments with a value of less than DKK 200. This work requires a fee of 80 kroner per person. dispatch regardless of the value of the goods. I have no problem understanding that this can be unreasonable if the value of the product is low, but the actual cost of the item of customs clearance is independent of the value of the product. According to the Post Office, the fee of 80 kroner is hardly enough to cover the cost of the work, but the Post Office considers this to be an important service for the customers. It is also important to stress that people who think the fee is too high can tell their local customs office that they want to do the work themselves. Customers must then themselves travel to the nearest customs office and ensure customs clearance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1442	I thank you for the answer, but I dare remind the Council of the fact that my question was what kind of home address Posten Norge BA could charge for the collection of VAT. The Council of State answers that the fee applies to customs processing, and he says that this is a service for customs clearance of consignments from abroad, and that the actual costs of the Post for customs clearance work, etc. is independent of the value of the goods. But what I ask you is, it's on what basis you can charge a fee for the collection of VAT. And that's something quite different.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1449	It's right that the representative, Terje Johansen, emphasizes that there are two different angles out there and going. But the Post acts here in my opinion as a freight forwarder, so that you relate to the usual freight forwarding activities and conditions, such as, among other things. includes charges for handling consignments from abroad. I have been informed, the last morning today, that this fee before was set at 80 kroner for services over 200 kroner as the handling also resulted in more work. In the case of a real customs duty on goods less than NOK 200, the corresponding fee was introduced for the whole process, in fact, as I said in my first answer, that the scope of work in this context is the same. So this has to be seen far beyond a purely value added management.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1456	So what's left is that the post office calculates a fee to collect VAT. I have to say that I have a big question mark at home for it. Because if this were to be the same for all business owners, so that you could claim – which you can certainly – that it costs money to charge VAT, we would get quite strange conditions in this country. In addition, I have been informed by numerous letters, e-mails and newspaper posts, that this also includes small packages and gifts from the rest of the world with a value of less than NOK 200, which should not be subject to any VAT or customs duties at all. So I think the Minister of Transport should make contact with the Ministry of Finance in order to clarify the lines in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1461	Of course, the Council of State does not accept contact with the Ministry of Finance, and that will be done. What is important to emphasise again is that this fee is fixed by the Board of Directors of the Post, which has the necessary powers to fix tariffs and charges in addition to the unit portfolio, or what the Ministry of Transport is to determine under the directive of the Storting. I understand the reaction when a package has very little value in relation to the amount of the fee. But I find it difficult to see that the Ministry of Transport or the Stortinget, after the Posten Board has obtained the necessary powers, can over-check the fee size. On the other hand, if there are misunderstandings related to the gift question, the size of the gift, etc., it is quite natural that the Ministry of Finance makes a clarification on exactly this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1478	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1484	This question, from the representative of Aud Gaundal to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1487	I would first like to draw your attention to the fact that there has been a ‘or’ in the last sentence of the submitted question, and I hope that it does not come to the conclusion that the Council of State responds differently from what I hope he does. I then ask the following question to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘Section 8-4 of the Social Security Act states: ‘Working disability due to social or economic problems and the like does not qualify for sickness benefits.’ A female driver considers that she has been unjustly denied sickness benefits in the context of this paragraph. At the same time, we are constantly seeing that conflicts that are being published result in resource individuals getting sick. Does the Council of State see any trend where there is discrimination in terms of professional background or between women and men?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1496	The central condition for entitlement to sickness benefits is disability due to illness. According to § 8-4 of the Law on Social Security, it is not enough to be unemployed, unemployment must clearly be caused by illness or injury. The medical conditions for entitlement to sickness benefit were tightened in 1993. I refer here to Ot.prp. No 39 for 1992-93. It was then clarified that disability is clearly due to illness and that disability due to social, economic or other life problems does not give rise to sickness benefits. The reason for the change was that there had been a gradual liberalisation of the concept of disease by the fact that natural problems, conflicts or difficult life situations were equated with disease. A difficult life situation, e.g. a conflict in the workplace does not in itself give entitlement to sickness benefits. In some cases, such a conflict could lead to psychological problems that could lead to disease. However, it must be clear that problems which have not become a disease do not give rise to the right to medical attention. It's here that treating doctors have to use their medical judgement and their wisdom, to the best of their ability. In cases where there is evidence to question the eligibility of a medical report, Ankenmaden for sick pay during the employer’s period has used a strict assessment of evidence. The fulfilment of the conditions for sickness benefits must be specifically assessed on a case-by-case basis. The rules of the Law on the Conditions of Sickness do not distinguish between women and men. The specific assessment of the worker’s incapacity for work due to illness shall be independent of sex. I have not seen any trend where there is discrimination on the grounds of professional background, or between men and women. I am aware that there may be unclear boundaries between medical illnesses and conditions in which people may find themselves due to difficult life situations of different kinds. Nevertheless, certain conditions are clearly outside a medical term. By explaining such situations, the real problems that lie behind could be obscured, and will not be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1507	I thank the Council of State for the answer. When I have raised the question, it is with the background that we need to be aware of developments. At a time when we see that sick pay is increasing, and we want a trend that goes the other way, it is important that we do not get unfair practice, because it should not be such that the low-status professions – and therefore also the low-paid professions – are more easily assessed according to § 8-4 than, for example. high-education and high-quality professionals. Similarly, it is important that there is no gender difference, and in this way I am pleased with the Council's response that we do not see any trend in that direction so far. But my follow-up question is: Does the Council of State think that we have good enough reporting, so that if we see a development that goes in the direction we don't want, we will clearly capture it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1516	It is the responsibility of the social security office to approve medical messages and to verify, in this context, that the conditions for medical notification are available. This also applies to the follow-up of the intensified medical conditions to which I referred in my main response. I trust that the social security offices and the social security system both in their control of the individual health service and in their follow-up work by health care professionals are aware of the problem that the representative Gaundal has raised here and that I fully agree with it is important to be on guard against, so that one avoids discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1526	I have the following questions to the Council of State Høybråten: ‘According to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, six municipalities, Eastfold, West Agder, Vestfold, Oslo, Nordland and Troms, do not receive the income calculated because the State considers that parts of the increased patient treatment in hospitals are not real. The result is several $10 million in income losses. Thus, there are red figures in hospital accounts and unpleasant consequences for patients. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to punish those hospitals that have become effective and that base their operations on ‘intervention-driven financing’?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1535	The aim of input-driven funding — ISF — is to increase the activity of hospitals, thereby reducing the waiting time for treatment. In 1998, the reimbursement rate was 45 pst. of the average cost of treatment. In addition to State grants to strengthen the sector, the allocation was financed by contributions from the framework grants. The extension was made so that the county councils would receive the same in state transfers with the same activity as in the base year. This was done on the basis of registration practices in 1995. Overall, the counties receive payments for more activity in 1998 in proportion to planned figures. However, this amount is less than some of the counties have expected. Intervention funding is a significant health policy reform, in which 1998 was the first full year the scheme was in operation. Uncertainty associated with the implementation of such a major reform should provide for a degree of caution in county budgeting. However, county councils receive full financial compensation for increased activity, but not necessarily for changed registration practices. When the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has found it necessary to reduce the reimbursement basis for some municipalities, it is mainly due to two factors. Firstly, when ISF was introduced, there was a significant under-registration of what hospitals actually did from patient treatment. The sub-registration resulted in a corresponding reduction in the framework grant granted by the counties. The county councils have therefore been paid for all patient treatment. Following the introduction of the ISF, the quality of registration has improved and increased in line with the guidelines. A change in registration could result in an unreasonable financial outlay in relation to actual costs. This applies in particular to the recording of day patients and observation spaces. The municipalities are briefed in an information letter in January 1998 on, inter alia: the recording of day-to-day patients could be managed separately in determining the basis for payment. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has therefore found it necessary to reduce payments where these clearly exceed actual costs. In some cases the county authorities would otherwise have a cost coverage of between 200 and 400 pst, compared to 45 pst. on the basis of which the scheme was implemented in 1998. Secondly, registration practices that are not in line with the applicable rules. An example here is patient treatment not covered by the intervention-driven funding scheme, for example: medical and outpatient services. It is not a question of ‘punishment’ of effective county municipalities but of ensuring that the intentions of input-driven funding are followed up. Finally, let me inform you that the Ministry will have a dialogue with the counties concerned on the implementation of the adjusted bill for 1998. The Grand total will be presented in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1558	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I just don't think a dialogue leads to the results the county councils are after. If the guidelines have been so bad on the part of those responsible and not everything has been included, it should be ensured that everything was included, and not penalised the county councils in retrospect. I do not understand that the Council of State does not understand that the ISF system must be predictable, so that the results of the increased number of patients treated can be realised. It has to be the basics. Unpredictable cuts in the light of changes in payments to county councils will actually remove the basis of the ISF system. I'm going to hope that's not the goal. It'll be very unfortunate. You can fix this without blaming the county authorities that they have calculated errors. I would like to ask the Council of State: when it comes to the treatment of the revised national budget, which he himself was about, what does the Council of State intend to do? Does he wish to transfer the funds that he has already signaled to withdraw for 1998?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1569	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Stang, that hospital funding must be as predictable as possible. It suggests that the Ministry has a conscientious follow-up to the guidelines given and the intentions set out for the scheme in relation to all counties. To the extent that some municipalities — and in this case a few of them — have left the system longer than it is, there would be a clear failure on the part of the ministry if this were not followed up. It also has to do with the credibility of effort-driven financing, on which I believe the representative Stang and I agree that is a system that we should have and on which we should build. With regard to the revised national budget, I can only limit myself at this point to saying that we will make an overall presentation of the development of effort-driven financing, including this issue, in the document presented by the Government to the Stortinget in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1576	It is urgent for the county councils to clarify what the department really means by its calculations. That six county councils have pulled this too far, I'm not going to go into any discussion about. What I am looking for is that at the beginning of this phase you do not punish the county councils who may have made some mistakes on the occasion of the case. What I would like to ask the Council of State is: does not the Council of State see what consequences it will have with reducing the number of patient treatments, and perhaps with human suffering, if not the county councils in total get 100 million. Do you want to withdraw? It has major consequences, especially for patients who need an operation right away in one of our hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1583	First, let me say that patients who need treatment immediately in Norwegian hospitals receive immediate treatment. Let me say that this is not a penal expedition to some county councils. This is the Ministry's work on following up a system and a regulation and the intentions of a system in such a way that it functions properly. That responsibility must be borne by the department, even if it is unpleasant, and even if it leads to someone not getting the money they had expected. For it may not be reasonable to obtain a settlement for a type of patient treatment that is not included in the system, or to obtain a settlement that often exceeds the actual cost of this treatment. I think that would really help to tear down the legitimacy and respect for this system. What I can promise is that we will have a dialogue with the county councils concerned. There will be a meeting with the county councils on Friday, and we will have a dialogue on the implementation of this adjusted bill.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1602	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1608	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘These days, the Directorate for Nature Management has approved the municipalities which have agreed to assume administrative responsibility for protected areas. In addition, for example, the municipalities of Lierne have agreed to take part in a testing scheme with the delegation of funds for preventive measures against wild game damage. Both of these issues become new tasks for municipalities. How does the Council of State feel that these additional costs should be compensated?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1617	I am concerned that the role of municipalities in nature management should be strengthened. I would therefore like to delegate the management of the protection areas to the municipalities where conditions allow. As regards the coverage of the additional costs of municipalities, I would like to refer to the reform «Environment in municipalities», which was dealt with in St.meld. No 34 for 1990-1991. The reform led, inter alia, to: for all municipalities in the country to receive annual grants to strengthen municipal environmental protection. From 1997 onwards, the grant has been incorporated into the national framework transfers. The grant allows municipalities to acquire professional competence in the field of environmental protection, such as: may be used to perform administrative tasks in the management of protected areas. In addition, municipalities may apply for funds to perform specific tasks such as supervision and care. These are funds allocated over the Ministry's budget, which are currently distributed to the counties. I assume that the municipalities that assume the administrative responsibility for protection areas will have the same financial framework for concrete measures that the county councillors would otherwise have. As far as predatory game management is concerned, an experiment was launched in 1998 in the Liene, where the municipal level has been delegated the power to allocate framework appropriations for prevention measures, and the power to effect conditional killing permits on the bear. I am very pleased with the implementation of the municipality in 1998, and it is time to continue the experiment this year. A reasonable proportion of the additional administrative costs incurred by the municipality for the continuation of the experiment is assumed to be borne by the municipality within the limits of the appropriations for the management of wild game.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1626	In a letter to the municipalities of the Directorate for Nature Management of 1998: «It is for us a priority task to find solutions that can create commitment and local understanding of protection... Municipalities that want administrative responsibility for protected areas must, of course, have natural competence and capacity to work on these kinds of issues.» In addition, it says: ‘Based on the traditional budgetary level for the management of protected areas, the Directorate will stress that municipalities cannot charge large transfers of funds as a result of a transfer of authority. A substantial part of the management costs must therefore be borne by each municipality... The future budgetary situation will be crucial for the extent of government resources for this purpose.» That's quote from the letter. At a time when municipalities have an economy that is the most desperate they have ever had in the 1990s, there will be a need for transfers of funds. With sufficient financial resources, we get good governance. My question is: does the Council of State think that's going to be right based on what she herself said?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1641	First, let me say that the protection areas that have now been allocated to the municipalities, where they are offered local government, are so-called small and, in part, some medium-sized areas. We have offered the municipalities 1500 areas, and so far the response seems to be good. It is correct that there will not be large transfers to the municipalities, but, as I said in my first answer, the municipalities will be offered the same amount as the counties would otherwise use to manage the area if they would still do so themselves. It is also the case that from 1997 onwards it was decided to add the previously earmarked funds to the framework grant in the environmental sector. This does not mean that municipalities no longer get money to do with environmental protection, but that these funds have gone into the framework grant. The reason for this is that we believe it is important, and we also believe that there is a local desire to give priority to environmental protection.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1648	It is true, as the Minister for the Environment stresses, that most municipalities have shown a positive attitude to take over part of the administrative area. Nevertheless, most, for example the Liene, have said that they think that the appropriations for prevention measures are too small, and they also ask questions about compensation in relation to the administration of the areas. It is also related to what I think is important, namely that when you take tasks from part of the government and take them to another part, then there must be flexibility in the system, so that we can have confidence that the municipalities get resources to do a good job. Because there is something we are concerned about in relation to these areas, it is that they should be well cared for even when the municipalities take on that task.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1655	Let me first say that once the government has taken steps both to provide local management of some smaller protected areas and to further decentralize parts of the forest management, not least on the prevention side, it is because we are convinced that we need the knowledge that exists in the local communities, in order to get the best possible solution, and because we believe that local communities get greater ownership through such schemes, also for environmental protection in the municipalities. There is certainly reason to say that the allocation of prevention measures could have been greater, but I would like to stress that this government has experienced a significant increase in the item prevention measures and also stock registration. I agree with the principle that if you move a task from one level to another, it will be followed by money, and it will also be the case that the municipalities that manage one area will be added to the same sum that the county would otherwise use. But we find reason to stress that this is not a large sum, so the municipalities should not feel tricked.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1665	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: «In the municipalities of Aurskog Höland and Nes in Akershus there is concern over the strongly growing wolf population. In border municipalities in Hedmark and Eastfold, too, there is concern about developments. Uncertainty and insecurity of the local population are caused by the undecided management of the wolf population. It is understood that the Directorate for Nature Management will propose the core area set here. Do the Council of State propose the establishment of a core area for wolves in these areas?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1674	In 1997, the Storting carried out a full review of the forest game management in the treatment of St.meld. No 35 for 1996-97. The size then joined a goal of ensuring viable populations of all four major predatory species in Norway. At the same time, active farming shall be ensured with the possibility of exploiting grazing resources in sheep and clean pastures. The treatment of wild game messages by size is now being followed up in a number of areas. The government continuously assesses the measures and instruments that can be useful to achieve the objectives adopted. In this context, it is important for the Government to discharge our obligations under international agreements, such as the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Berne Convention. The government is also trying as much as possible to reconcile the concerns of livestock, local populations and primary industries in the districts. In this follow-up work, I attach great importance to close contact with both municipalities and other stakeholders locally. Stock records indicate that there were six family groups of wolves in southern Scandinavia last winter. One of these wolf groups held in the border area between Hedmark, Akershus, Østfold and Värmland in Sweden. This area therefore appears to be an important area of life for wolves in Norway. In the game management, the concept of ‘core area’ describes a geographical unit which may cover all or part of the area of population distribution and which is bounded by an administratively defined limit. The aim of core areas is to ensure that the large predators can reproduce and survive, thereby facilitating conditions for viable populations, while at the same time avoiding excessive damage to bup and tamrein. The question as to whether a core region of the wolf was mentioned in the predatory game message. Due to the weak stock situation, there was no basis for determining the core area of the wolf when the predatory game message was processed in Stortinget. However, it was emphasised that the creation of one or more core areas may in the long term also be relevant for wolves in order to differentiate the use of instruments with regard to killing and the use of harm prevention measures. It was noted that the location of such core areas can only be assessed once a family group of reproducibility has been established on the Norwegian side of the border. The Directorate for Nature Management, by letter to the Ministry in January of this year, has made further assessments of the management of the wolf in 1999. The Directorate shall have, inter alia: the recommended geographical zone of use of the instrument in the management. There is no concrete proposal from the Directorate to establish administrative boundaries for a core area. In the counties of Hedmark, Akershus and Østfold, there is now work to identify and assess regional conflicts and management measures as the starting point for a future management plan for the wolf. The management of wolves must take place through geographical differentiation of the use of the instrument and the establishment of wolves in Sami domestic areas or in sheep-etted areas west of Glomma is not desirable. I will now await the survey work of the county councillors before a final decision is taken on whether a differentiated management of the wolf should be carried out through the establishment of its own core area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1691	I thank the Council of State for the answer, even though it was not suitable to calm the population in this area, because it is still unclear when it becomes a core area, and if it becomes a core area for wolves, where it should possibly be. Among other things, representatives of the municipalities of Halden, Aremark, Marker, Rømskog, Eidskog, Kongsvinger, Nord-Odal, Sør-Odal, Nes and Aurskog-Høland have close contact and encounters because the concern is great. Now the Council of State said that in the follow-up work she would place great emphasis on close contact with both municipalities and other stakeholders locally, and that is positive and very important. But when is it expected that the survey work of the county councillors will be completed, and will the Grand Council be dealt with when the council has taken a final decision on these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1698	I have been busy through the game management to dampen the conflict between the different interests and among other things. stressed the importance of having close and close contact with both the industries and communities affected. It's important for me to keep going. That is also why I attach so much importance to the fact that both the stakeholders, the municipalities and, in particular, the county councillors in the areas in question are heavily involved in the work. When it's hard to give very clear answers right now, it's because we're in an intermediate position in the management of wolves. We haven't quite reached the stock target yet, while we see that the stock is growing rapidly. That is why we have also chosen to initiate this work before the target is reached, so that we can clarify it as early as possible. I think it is natural for us to come back to Stortinget in an appropriate form with a possible concrete proposal on a core area if it is to be the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1707	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am glad that she will come back to Stortingen with the matter. Clearly, there is uncertainty about the growth of the wolf trunk. But the fact that it is growing rapidly has also been confirmed here by the Council of State. It creates uncertainty and uncertainty in the population. And fear is real in these areas. Families have a different relationship with forests and fields than they had before. Some choose to drive their children to school and to take leisure activities and provide outpatient care. It is also a common perception that today's wolf tribe seems to lack the natural cloudiness of man and human vicinity, which is a prerequisite for the coexistence of wolf and human beings. Since there is uncertainty about how much wolf it is, I would like to ask if the Council of State will take the initiative to put it up for accurate stock registration, so that there can be a real record of how much wolf there is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1716	I understand that a growing wolf population creates uncertainty in the population, especially because we have experienced, and in the future will increasingly experience encounters or contact between humans and wolves. It will be inevitable in a situation where we will also have viable populations of the four major predatory species. Then I think it's important that we put great emphasis on safe knowledge, both a safe knowledge of how to behave in such a situation, and a safe knowledge of how to avoid people and wolves coming into contact with each other becoming a dangerous situation. In most cases, there is no reason to believe that it will be dangerous. At the same time, I agree that safe knowledge of the stock is important. Therefore, the government made a clear increase in the allocation to the stocktaking of wolf last winter in order to have tracking on snow, and we are also prepared to continue this until the next winter, if it should prove necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1733	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1739	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Refugee and asylum recipients in Norway are far too established ad hoc when the flow of refugees increases. This is unsustainable both for the refugees and the authorities. New operators have little competence and local authorities are not prepared to address the need for professional competence and organisation. Will the Council of State take the initiative to establish a form of emergency services that may be prepared to establish reception at short notice?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1748	The number of asylum seekers and refugees coming to the country varies from month to month and from year to year. This implies that the need for places in state receptions varies. When the refugees from Bosnia arrived in Norway in 1993 and 1994, we received 147 in April 1994 at most. However, lower arrival rates reduced the need for 19 receptions in December 1997. Increased numbers of arrivals in general and the decision to receive up to 6,000 refugees from Kosovo have resulted in a new build-up of reception, so that today we have 102 receptions across the country. A certain flexibility has been built into today’s reception apparatus to maintain both professional competence and to ensure the necessary preparedness for major arrivals. The Directorate for Foreign Affairs is responsible for establishing and concluding agreements for the operation of state reception facilities for asylum seekers and refugees. In order to reduce the vulnerability of fluctuations in the number of arrivals, the Directorate of Foreign Affairs has the possibility to enter into agreements on paid emergency facilities that can be put into service at short notice. In addition, most operating and lease contracts include a certain number of price locations. These are reception points paid as they enter into service. Of the approx. The 12,500 reception points we have per. 26 April 1999, is approx. 2 600 price ranges. This provides some flexibility in the reception system. In addition, there is usually some overcapacity in transit recipients to accommodate increased arrivals. The objective of the reception apparatus is both to provide a sober and a sound offer to the individual asylum seeker and refugee. Any form of preparedness and overcapacity has a price and will contribute to an increase in the total cost of the receiving apparatus. Today, the objective is that capacity utilisation within the receiving apparatus should be at all times 90 pst. Major fluctuations in arrival figures mean that any emergency municipalities must be willing to link resources to both staff and housing stock for an indefinite period. How this is to be organised in practice, if any, I am unsure, especially in the light of the fact that relatively few municipalities have wanted to be an operator. But I can assure Andersen, the representative, that the Foreign Affairs Directorate is doing its utmost to ensure both the capacity and competence of the receiver. In this context, they have ongoing contact with relevant municipalities and private and non-governmental organisations, such as Norwegian Folkehelp and Norway’s Red Cross, which have extensive experience in this field. These are resources used in addition to training and follow-up from the Directorate for Foreign Affairs in setting up new receptions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1762	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am a little uncertain about what the Council of State really said – whether it was time to look at a better emergency response system than what we have today, or whether it is not relevant to do so. I expect the Council of State is aware that there are issues in the Stortinget dealing with precisely these issues, that there is both a lack of competence, which means that the refugees do not get a good reception, and conflicts of establishment, which we would prefer to avoid. In addition to that, we know that there are some municipalities that have actually wanted to have some preparedness for this. How this is to be done in practice is uncertain by the Council of State, he says. It's also the questioner. That's exactly why the question is being asked, whether it's not now with the experience we've recently gained, is time to look at this emergency system again, so that we're better off in a situation where there's an increase in the number of refugees. As the world looks, it seems that we will experience it in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1769	I refer to my first answer, where I said that in 1993 and 1994 we had mostly received 147, and that at the lowest, in December 1997, we had 19 receipts. There will therefore be considerable variations in the need for reception over time. In the system we have, it's built into a certain preparedness that the department considers to be adequate for normal needs. It is clear that situations may arise where this is not sufficient. That's why, as I said, you also have some overcapacity in transit receptions to deal with such acute situations. While it is obvious that there is both an economic and an organisational question of how far we should go in terms of readiness and overcapacity at reception, the ministry considers that this is in a normal situation, through the arrangements we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1776	I thank you for your answer. I note that the Council of State and I disagree as to whether we have the necessary preparedness to do this better than it is today. Preparedness has its price, but a lack of preparedness can also have a price, and I believe that that price can be high both for the individual refugee, who in a very difficult situation encounters another difficult situation, and for the municipalities that are to stand too much of the professional follow-up that the refugees need. I'm sorry that the Council of State is not willing to see if we can find other systems to increase preparedness. While this is not intended to greatly increase overcapacity, there may be preparedness systems in these areas involving cooperation on professional skills, for example: between municipalities, which means that you know who to contact when a situation arises.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1785	Now I was probably perceived to be well-bossed if what I said is perceived as rejecting any attempt to get into cooperation arrangements such as, among other things. shall exercise competence. I agree with Andersen's representative that it is important to maintain competence in municipalities in relation to training, in relation to integration, in relation to health, in relation to all the problems that we know are related to special situations that refugees are often exposed to. Better arrangements may be sought. What I explained in my answer was the readiness in relation to the number of places that should be available at any time. That seems to me to be a completely different question. The fact that we have managed to deal with the situation that we have been through in the last month, with the receipt of a significant number of refugees from Kosovo, while at the same time having a very large influx of refugees from other countries, in a satisfactory way, shows that the apparatus that we have is capable of providing the necessary flexibility. But with regard to the question of competence and the other issues of cooperation between municipalities, I think it is a track that should be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1795	This question, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelme Orheim to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be raised by the representative of Sylvia Brustad.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1798	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The figures from the Directorate of Foreign Affairs for the first two months of 1999 show that children seeking asylum in Norway without parents can risk waiting for more than one year before they get a permanent place to live — despite UDI’s objective of placement within six months. [[UDI]] What will the Council of State do to ensure that the objective of settlement is met within six months?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1807	First, I would like to make it clear that the objective is that single minors should be resident in a municipality within three months of they may have been granted a residence permit. So it is not from arrival in Norway, but there is a decision on a residence permit, if any. Having said that, I would say that a quick settlement in a municipality is undoubtedly a better solution for these children than a longer stay in reception. For this reason, after an individual assessment, they may reside in a municipality before they may have obtained a residence permit. A majority of the unaccompanied minor asylum seekers are covered by this scheme, and several municipalities have subsequently concluded agreements to receive unaccompanied minors. Unfortunately, it has been difficult to get enough space in the municipalities. At the same time, the number of lone minors coming to Norway has almost doubled in the last year. Many single minors have therefore had a longer stay in reception than is desirable. The Directorate for Foreign Affairs prioritises unaccompanied minors and has a continuous dialogue with municipalities on the need for housing of single minors. The situation that has arisen has also made it necessary to evaluate the offer of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is therefore working on this in cooperation with the other departments and the Directorate of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1822	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I record that the Council of State is willing to look at this. It is a fact that there is little or no improvement to track in relation to last year in relation to this problem, although more attempts have been made to get to the settlement faster. It is also good that there is a consensus that asylum seekers should have the shortest possible stay in reception and that they should move where they can have an almost normal life situation as quickly as possible. I would also like to say that taking care of single minor asylum seekers often requires much more comprehensive and long-term planning than accepting entire families. This applies both in relation to follow-up and perhaps not least in relation to networks. We know that many of these children have a heavy baggage with them from their homeland, and it often conflicts with the adult world they have to deal with here. So my question is really: what does the Council of State actually intend to do so that the settlement can take place faster and to make sure that we have a closer follow-up of these children?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1831	Of the measures taken, it may, inter alia: It should be mentioned that the Directorate for Foreign Affairs prioritises the establishment of so-called basic municipalities for the settlement of lone minors. There is an agreement with 20 municipalities. The special grant to municipalities granted by housing of lone minors has been increased to DKK 90 000 with effect from 1 January 1999 in order to contribute to increased settlement. So this is a subsidy that municipalities receive in addition to the integration grant. Furthermore, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, has launched a project for the development of good models for municipal work with lone minors. I agree with the representative Brustad that we are facing special challenges in this area that require an active commitment, and that project has also tried to address these issues. This project will be carried out in six municipalities and will end in the autumn of 2001. The aim is to test different models that ensure good housing and care solutions for lone minors.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1844	I will ask the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs the following questions: ‘50 million. kroner were set aside to prevent many small schools from being closed down. Lookups show that a significant proportion of the funds have gone for other purposes. How does the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs ensure that the funds go to the purpose for which the Stortinget was informed?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1853	In the 1999 state budget, Stortinget decided to set aside 50 million. NOK in extra discretionary funds for municipalities with extra tight frameworks and struggling to maintain the service offer. The Ministry has allocated these funds to municipalities with weak economies and small schools as a result of scattered settlements. We want this to help municipalities with a tight municipal budget have an opportunity to maintain high-risk cross-border schools. The additional funds are free resources for municipalities as they are granted as an additional discretionary grant, i.e.: the means are not ear-marked. The municipalities have also not applied for funds. The Ministry has allocated funds to the municipalities in consultation with the county and the education director of each county. The Ministry has therefore not formally considered that action should be taken if a municipality chooses to use the additional funds for something that it considers more important than maintaining a border school. Therefore, there is no specific control of the use of funds by local authorities in addition to the regular reporting of earnings and accounts by local authorities. I have a basic confidence that local elected representatives can make reasonable priorities, and that the municipalities that have now received additional funds are using them in a good way. I see it as the local people elected here must be responsible to the local people for the choices they have made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1862	Now we know that there has been a change of state council in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. I am very surprised that the Council of State has not been briefed on the history, namely the Teachers' Team's study of school dropouts and what the previous Council of State, together with the Council of State for Education, pointed out here in the Storting. A press release was issued on 15 January from the local and regional minister who declared 50 million. kr for primary schools. So in the next round, the state council here now says that the municipalities can do pretty much what they want. My question in relation to what was stated in Stortinget is: Do the municipalities that have received money, in fact, unfairly compared to what the Stortinget has been informed about, also have to pay this money back?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1871	I refer again to my first answer. It was the Stortinget that decided in the 1999 budget to set aside 50 million. NOK in extra discretionary funds for municipalities with extra tight frameworks and struggling to maintain the service offer. It is these additional means of discretion that the Ministry, in consultation with the county council and the director of education in the individual counties, has allocated to those municipalities that have spread settlements and have small schools, in order to ensure that this helps to maintain as much of the cross-border schools as possible. It is one of the criteria on which the allocation has been based. The Ministry has no possibility of confiscating discretionary funds that are part of a framework that is not earmarked, as I also said in my first response, and has no specific control arrangements in relation to this either.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1876	The reality is that in Stortinget it was informed that 50 million. kr would go to primary schools. That was the whole background for supporting this initiative. Now the Council of State says that here the individual municipality can do as it pleases, it has no consequences. Then the council has a problem with Stortinget, and also with what the different parties here want, that can't actually be fulfilled when the individual municipality can do exactly what it wants. The question to the Council of State is: do you not see this in relation to an equivalent offer? And what about an earmark in the continuation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1883	I remember that one of the criteria for extra discretionary grants, as the ministry has assumed, is that they have chosen to retain the primary schools, to maintain a decentralised school structure. The municipalities that have done so – and which have then received additional discretionary grants – have necessarily had to finance through their budget the additional cost of providing cross-border schools, which in many municipalities are threatened with closure. Having extra means of discretion means that it is easier to maintain these cross-border schools. In this way, of course, the discretionary means have contributed to what was the ministry's purpose, even if you can go into the individual appropriations and say that they may have been used for other things. I trust that the funds will be used to maintain the primary schools, as the prerequisite has been. The Ministry has had no other option than to allocate discretionary funds in accordance with the criteria laid down by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1890	That being the case, it is no. 1 in today's map done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-05.ana.ud1055e1899	There is no record available.
