ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e56	The representatives Hans J. Røssorde and Gunnar Schaug, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the West-Agder province: Sigmund Kroslid For Akershus County: André Kukkestad For the Province of Buskerud: Unni Hennum Lie For the province of Hordaland: Kurt-Arne Langeland For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Ottar Kaldhol For the Nordic region: Bears Olsen For Oslo: Sissel Dagslet For Telemark County: Gunn Marit Helgesen For the Province of Troms: Elisabeth Aspaker For Westfold County: Karin Lian and Jan Th. Langaard Two permit applications are available: by Mr Kjell Opseth, on behalf of the Committee on Transport, on Tuesday 15 June, by Mr Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, on leave to participate, on behalf of the Committee on Transport, in the opening of the mainland link to the Magerøya in Finnmark. Those applications are proposed for immediate consideration and are accepted. – This is deemed to be adopted. From the first alternate of the Finnmark County, Einar Johansen, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen's leave on Tuesday 15 June, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Finnmark County: Inger Balandin For the Sogn and Fjordane counties: Reidar Sandal
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e152	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e157	I suggest Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e162	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e170	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 1 – 4 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e209	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Centre Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e218	It's an old mouth saying that the world is moving on slowly. It can hardly be said to be the case in the case of developments in the petroleum sector in Norway, not elsewhere in the world either. In the summer of 1998, the government presented St.meld. No 46 for 1997-98, it started with a high and growing investment rate. Now we experience that the sector is facing stagnation and reduced profitability. Both exploration activity and investment are falling — let me use the word stupper — and a majority of the committee believes that many of the issues in the oil communication are topical today. The question today is how to prevent the decline in oil and gas activities from intensifying the trend of decline, especially in the coastal yard industry. Therefore, a majority, the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right, believe that the changed situation on the base makes parts of the oil notification obsolete, especially as regards the level of activity. In contrast to the Government, this majority points out that measures to mitigate the activity on Norwegian pedestal, as described in St.meld. No 46, today is an out-of-date policy. On the contrary, these lots underline the need for measures that may increase the level of activity on Norwegian pedestal. The framework conditions for the oil industry need to be reviewed so that socio-economic investments can also be economically viable. The oil price last autumn moved below the $14 barrel. The price today is above this level. Meanwhile, the oil price has been below $10, a record low price that triggered production regulation measures from OPEC and from other countries, including Norway. In the 1999 national budget, the total wealth of reserves on the pedestal per year was estimated to be between EUR 1 and EUR 1 billion. 1 January 1999 estimated at DKK 1,990 billion in 1999 The Ministry has stated that an oil price of about $10 is more than halved the total wealth, and estimates the value of approx. $800 billion. It shows the need for research environments, authorities, oil companies and employees’ organisations to develop new solutions to exploit identified oil and gas reserves that are currently unprofitable. The knowledge and competence of companies and research communities need to be mobilised in order to further improve technology. In this setting, the Committee says little about the gas business, but I expect the Government to come back to this in connection with the next petroleum notification, which comes in the spring of 2000. The Ministry has informed the Committee that the use of gas for power generation is in high growth in Europe and that natural gas has distorted the use of coal. This is happy information. I have mentioned earlier that there are major changes in the petroleum sector around the world, and oil is being extracted in ever-new areas. At the same time, Norwegian cap is becoming a mature petroleum province. If the Norwegian companies are to benefit from and further develop the competences built up from the activities of Norway, it is necessary to extend the activities to other parts of the world. The majority of the Committee points out that the opening of new exploration sites has given Norwegian industrial environments access to new markets internationally. Although it is pointed out that the international business is demanding and of high risk to the companies, it can provide a basis for value creation in Norwegian business, even after the resources on Norwegian base have been exhausted. With regard to exploration and concession policy, the majority of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Party of Advances and the Right welcomes petroleum extraction in the Barents Sea and asks the authorities to facilitate the development of the Snow White field. The majority of the Committee agrees with the Government that group applications are being opened in the North Sea but that individual applications are being submitted by companies in the Norwegian Sea, in line with previous practice. The uncertainty surrounding petroleum prices, the impact of climate policy, the importance of the oil fund and the issues of safety and the working environment will not be further addressed by me in this article. Time won't allow that. Let me just briefly comment that there is a unanimous committee that agrees with the Government that measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions and other emissions using fossil energy constitute a major uncertainty factor for the oil price. As mentioned above, it is independent of future climate action that there is considerable uncertainty about the oil price. Here a unanimous committee underlines the importance of the oil fund. The use of our oil revenues is about the management of our common national wealth. If funds are set aside for the fund when the oil price is higher than intended, lower revenues may be compensated through smaller reserves of the fund. In this way, the fund becomes a kind of buffer against unsafe oil revenues. Unsafe and fluctuating oil revenues pose other major challenges for the oil industry, but also for the authorities. A unanimous committee underlines the need for a review of the framework conditions. On the basis of an oil notification that had expired, and a unanimous wish for a change in the framework conditions, it must be right to say that there were great expectations for the additional message, St.meld. No 37, and the Government's proposal for framework conditions for the petroleum sector. Although the Government and government parties are very pleased with their proposal, it is a reality that the industry is not – insofar as no one else is. Political strikes at the businesses along the coast and large numbers of strikers here in Oslo are the world of reality. The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Right and SV of Stortinget are also not satisfied, and writes in its introductory remarks the following: ‘... that the measures provided for in Article 1 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 are as follows: No 37 are insufficient to meet the need for rapid action in industry and that the expectations of improvement in the framework conditions have not been met.» [[1997-98]] The report from the oil companies to the OED in the autumn of 1998 showed expansion projects on Norwegian soil for DKK 93.6 billion until 2003. According to a recent ECON report, figures from the same companies now show expansion tasks of NOK 22.6 billion, a fall of NOK 71 billion, which amounts to 76 pst. This can have a significant negative impact both on employment and on the further development of the petroleum industry. The Ministry informs in the supplementary notice that the reported hours in the next three semesters are very limited and far from sufficient to maintain employment in the large offshore yards. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Right and the SV, believe that the situation in the petroleum industry, the shipbuilding industry and other oil-related industries requires active and prompt action to avoid increased unemployment and loss of competence as a result of downskilling. Reduced investment frameworks, a mature base and the Norwegian tax and cost levels are hard hit by the oil and supply industry. There is a need to go beyond the Government’s additional notification concerning production charges and changes in the CO2 tax. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right, asks the Government to use its power to reduce or eliminate the production levy in some fields in order to bring forward marginal projects for investment decisions already in the autumn of 1999. With regard to the CO2 tax, the parties in this suspension and in the revised national budget have made their primary views known. Secondaryly, it is from a majority of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and Right-wing Agreement to include the entire offshore sector in the CO2 quota system during 2000. It is assumed that the Government in the budget for next year will propose ways of reducing the CO2 tax until a new quota system exists, including the possibility of differentiating between old and new fields, in order to stimulate increased development. This majority also calls for an investigation into the revision of the petroleum tax and for proposals to be promoted towards the Storting during the year 2000. Finally, it should be noted that there is a unanimous committee which, in the light of developments in oil and gas activities, believes that the future structure needs to be reviewed, inter alia. the management of DEATH and the ownership of Statoil.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e266	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e269	The representative Blattmann was aware that there were major changes in the oil industry. We've had some diversity on the base so far, where we've mainly had three oil environments. It's changing. A solution whereby Hydro and Statoil are allowed to buy Saga will reduce state ownership in oil environments. There will be a reduction in competition and a break-up of a company with a well-developed competence environment on a Norwegian base. Why is the Workers' Party not concerned with diversity on the pedestal, so that diversity and jobs, in which the Workers' Party, as most often claims to be interested, are preserved?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e276	To the representative of Korsberg, I would like to say that he should have read the setting a little bit more carefully, because the Workers' Party is actually saying together with the other parties that we want a review of the terms of the socket just to remove the barriers that might have to be in both the tax system and the licensing, in order for other new companies to be able to enter the Norwegian base. So this is not something we disagree with, we want to strengthen competition, and it's actually in the mood.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e281	In a situation where there is a need for leadership, the Government and the central parties have sat on the sideline. Centre batches have opted for both reality characterisation and the use of instruments on their own. In this setting, it is the Right Party, the Labour Party and the Advance Party that point out the direction – by including the entire offshore sector in the national quota system, by requiring the Government to obtain a revision of the petroleum tax and by requiring the Government to remove or reduce the production tax in order to generate investments already in the autumn. But this too may get a little thin compared to the situation we experience in the petroleum industry and the supplier industry. Especially from the Workers' Party, very big words have been used to criticise the government's parties for action paralysis in terms of generating instruments which can stimulate activity and which can bring the base and Norwegian petroleum activity into a new phase. Yes, you can talk about high cigar leadership from the Workers' Party country and beach around. When it comes to the problem, it is the Workers' Party that is preventing us from getting a reduction in the CO2 tax today. The right has proposed 30 pst. the reduction and the Progress Party have proposed to remove the entire CO2 tax. The Labour Party will wait until New Year, and a proposal is made to distinguish old and new fields, a solution that is both criticised by the companies and which both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Oil and Energy strongly warn against. My question to Aud Blattmann is: Why is the Workers' Party not willing to participate in and reduce the CO2 tax already this fall – a proposal that has been very high on the priority list for both the LO, industry and research environments, which has looked at what is going on to get the activity back on the base?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e294	It seems that this oral ‘high cigarette feeding’ has become very popular here in Stortinget. Now it is that there has been no high cigarette feed in connection with the government's lack of proposals to get out of the situation in which the petroleum industry is. What we have done is to ask for the CO2 tax to be assessed and for the Government to come back in connection with the budget for 2000. When it comes to the question of distinguishing old and new fields, we have asked the Government to investigate it as well. It is not always easy to know what the Right Party or the Advance Party believes about the CO2 tax. In one revised national budget, they actually contribute to increasing it by 20 pst, in order to reduce it next time or to remove it completely. So it's not that easy to find the right ways to go here, but as I said, we haven't pushed any problems in front of us. We've actually asked the government to investigate this with specific fields; it's something we've asked it to come back to. And so far: this is also the primary position of the Right Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e305	Let me first say that there was an interesting recognition by the representative Jan Tore Sanner at the beginning of this debate, namely that the proposals made by the opposition are meager. The representative, Blattmann, referred to an ECON report that tells us that the investments have decreased from around EUR 15 million. $93 billion, as planned, for $22.6 billion. The political memory is probably short, but the plans presented by the Harlem Brundtland government showed that there were investments of DKK 5 billion in 1999 and DKK 10 billion in 1998, so that there are still miles above that level. It has not been long since I saw the representative Blattmann in Dagsrevyen – she was outside Stortinget here and was quite hard in the criticism of the Government. It is very difficult to find how this is reflected in proposals now – in fact, I do not see a single proposal from the Labour Party that can help improve the situation. The majority of the four parties mentioned by Blattmann express great dissatisfaction and say that the proposals that are being promoted are not sufficient. And then I have to ask: what proposals does the Workers' Party have? I think the characterisation of the representative, Mr Sanner, was quite significant. I would like the representative Blattmann to explain how the Workers' Party can say in an opinion from the Central Board meeting on 31 May that the only answer from the Government is to grant 400 million. for the payment of unemployment benefits and that it does not notify any active measures to ensure employment. This opinion is therefore despite the fact that the Workers' Party joins all of the Government's proposals for action.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e320	Let me first fix a mistake I made in my previous reply: It was the secondary position of the Right and Advance Party – for which there is a majority in the Stortinget. I'm not going to do these parties wrong. So to the future investments and the size of the figures in the ECON report, which was mentioned by the representative Rise. So the numbers that I presented go up to 2003 -- at least that's the real numbers that are now available. And whoever said what, I want to stress that what we see now is a dramatic reduction in investment. Then I would like to say to the representative Rise that although the government parties do not like it in particular, it is at least an impression that the industry is very pleased with the package that the Workers' Party presented – and it has gained a break-up in the industry. With regard to the CO2 tax and the production tax, the representative Rise knows very well that our proposals will be taken up and promoted in the context of the revised national budget. However, if the representative Rise is not aware of this, I can mention that, in addition to the proposal that goes on production fees, cut CO2 tax and smaller shares of DØE, we have therefore been in favour of strengthening the workshop industry, strengthening the construction sector, more for research and more for workplaces. I think it's a little embarrassing for the center parties that no proposals have been made and done to get out of the situation that the industry is in.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e336	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e340	As the rapporteur pointed out, the situation on the Norwegian pedestal is quite different today from when the oil notification was presented in the summer of 1998. The oil sector is now experiencing stagnation and a lack of profitability, and both exploration and investment are expected to decline. The reductions in price expectations and lower earnings in oil companies, combined with a decrease in access to good projects, have led to a drastic reduction in the planned level of investment in Norwegian soil in the coming years. With current prices, cost levels and framework conditions, there is a risk that the development of new fields will almost stop for a period to come. The reduction in the level of activity will have a ring-fenced impact on value creation and employment, which will fall significantly in the oil industry, but even more so in the supplier industry. In the long term, therefore, further ring-effects can be seen in society. An unnecessary decrease in activity levels will impose migration costs and a loss of competence on society. The fall in the oil price, the high level of taxation and costs and the large excesses in the development of installations have led the Norwegian continental shelf oil industry to a situation where it is absolutely necessary to improve the framework conditions and also to lower the cost level to restore competitiveness. In the future, Norwegian continental shelf will have to be seen as an attractive area for the oil industry, and investments will have to provide returns that are competitive with returns on investment elsewhere in the world. In our view, the loss of Norwegian capital in this assessment will be very difficult to maintain skills, jobs and earnings. Today, Norwegian capital is becoming a significantly less attractive oil province to invest in. The costs of development and operation in Norway are high compared with those in other countries. Some of this is due to unintended effects and requirements and schemes imposed on this industry to a greater extent in Norway than in other countries. The long-term challenges we face are primarily to facilitate the cost of the industry so that it becomes attractive to invest on a Norwegian base. The special Norwegian cap CO2 tax distorts competition and weakens the competitive position of Norwegian cap compared to other areas of the world. For the Progress Party, it has been a goal to ensure that Norwegian pedestals compete on the same lines as foreign territories. That is why we have been constantly working to remove the excessive CO2 tax, or the environmental tax, which someone wants to call it without having anything to do with the environment. Petroleum activities account for almost one quarter of Norwegian CO2 emissions. Last year, The Storting decided to establish a system of emission allowances for so-called greenhouse gas emissions. The participation of the petroleum industry in this quota system could have a positive impact on the industry. Today it is paid in approx. NOK 3.6 billion in CO2 tax for emissions on the base. Emission allowances are likely to be much cheaper. According to estimates from CICERO, Climate Research Centres, the quota price can be about 150 DKK per year. tonnes, which will lead to significant economic savings for the industry. It is therefore important that the Government in the budget for the year 2000 submit proposals on how to reduce the CO2 tax until the offshore sector is included in the quota system. In the view of the Progress Party, it is important that Statoil be sub-privatised and listed. The main reason is that Statoil is no longer an instrument in the exercise of Norwegian oil policy, but is a fully integrated oil company in competition with others. Then, in our view, it is natural and necessary for Statoil to have access to work under the same framework conditions as its competitors, with a more competent and unambiguous corporate economic ownership. Exchange quotations will provide new framework conditions and will provide a better background for the measurement and evaluation of the company’s activities against its competitors. At the same time, all relations between the company and the public will change character and build on real negotiations between two equal parties and not between the company and the owner. Recent events have thus led, in the view of the Progress Party, to a further updating of the need for partial privatisation and listing of the company. I should like to refer to the document No. The 8th proposal, which has been promoted by the Progress Party but which has not yet been dealt with by the Stortinget. The width and diversity of the Norwegian base are important. The Progress Party will therefore oppose Hydro's authorisation to extend the share capital and is very not satisfied with the fact that the semi-state Hydro and the principal Statoil are now carrying out a raw slaughter of Saga. A solution whereby Hydro and Statoil are allowed to buy Saga will result in increased state ownership of the oil environment, reduced competition and the break-up of a company with a well-developed competence environment on a Norwegian base. We are very critical that Statoil will be allowed to participate in the purchase of Saga, and believe that the company should keep its fingers off the barrel and concentrate on cleaning up its own house after extensive overruns in recent development projects. After 30 years of oil and gas activities in Norway, there are wide variations between the geographical areas of Norway as regards ring effects and value creation related to this activity. The northern part of the country has only partially noted the positive ring-effects related to the build-up of skills, industrial development, etc. which results from the extraction of oil and gas on the Norwegian base. In the 1980s there was some activity in the Barents Sea. At that time large gas fields were detected that have not yet been commercially viable to expand. In recent years, there has been no exploration activity in the Barents Sea, with the negative impact it has on the supply industry and other service activities that were developed to serve this activity. In the last two years, Statoil has again been working to commercialise the gas in the Snow White field through the production of LNG for deployment to markets in the United States and the Mediterranean. This is a project to which the whole continent has great hopes. This is the third time the project has been assessed, and this time I hope that the project will have the profitability that will enable it to be expanded. For the Progress Party, it is important that new fields become as attractive as possible. In our view, large shares of RED will help to reduce the attractiveness of the fields because the shares of the other companies, and in particular the operator's share, are being reduced. Large shares of SDEE in combination with favourable deductions for investments contribute to a reduction in the focus on costs and an increase in the country’s shares in excess of costs. Therefore, it is appropriate to reduce the shares of BEES. Finally, I would like to address the proposals of the Progress Party and the Right and to point out that the Progress Party will also make proposals concerning this sector, in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e368	Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestions to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e373	The setting indicates that there is agreement, but not primarily, but subsidiaryly, on how we should proceed in relation to this with CO2. I note that in this post too, the Progress Party is very concerned about reducing the burden on the industry in terms of the CO2 tax. They primarily want to remove the full fee or reduce it. At the same time, however, the Progress Party concludes that it is the polluter who has to pay the pollution. We also know that when they say that they have constantly worked to remove the CO2 tax, that is not quite right, because together with the Right they went into the revised budget last year to increase the CO2 tax by 20 pst. My question to the representative of Korsberg is: What does the Progress Party really mean?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e380	I think most people in this room know what the Progress Party thinks about the CO2 tax. We reject the hysteria that is involved in the problem of CO2 emissions. In the Progress Party, we note that from different research environments, there is considerable uncertainty as to whether CO2 emissions have an impact on the climate, and in case they do, there is also enormous uncertainty as to how much impact it has on the climate. We in the Progress Party have made a number of proposals several times about removing the CO2 tax. Among other things, when last year we dealt with environmental protection policies for sustainable development, the Progress Party promoted proposals for the removal of the CO2 tax. We also proposed the removal of the CO2 tax when we discussed the Kyoto Protocol here a little earlier. So I think the Workers' Party is fairly aware of what the Advance Party believes about the CO2 tax. We reject the fact that the CO2 tax has something to do with environmental emissions at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e389	Øyvind Korsberg used a lot of his contribution to focus on the framework conditions for the companies in the North Sea on Norwegian plough and emphasised very strongly the impression that Norwegian plough is completely out of any competitive position, while everyone else has much better conditions than us. In this context, Korsberg also claimed that the Norwegian base was not interested in investments. My question to the representative Korsberg will be in this context: Does the Progress Party feel that Elf's commitment to buying up Saga is an expression that Norwegian socket is not attractive as an investment firm, and is it considered that the framework conditions are so bad that the socket cannot compete with others? Can I get a comment from the Øyvind Korsberg of the Advance Party on that? The second issue is related to the level of activity, which has been unnaturally high in the last few years. What level does the Progress Party think it would be natural to go on? Or to ask the question differently: Is there a measure for the Progress Party that the level of activity should rise again at the level of 1997-98?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e398	As the representative Rahm is aware, I am a representative of the Progress Party and sit on the Stortinget. The questions he's asking about Elf, I think he'll almost be able to ask them what it's appropriate to ask such questions, namely, the oil company Elf, and they'll be able to assess what's interesting about buying up Saga. So to what level you're going to add up to that oil industry is going to be on. What's important to us in the Progress Party is to set up such a framework that you can be allowed to compete with foreign territories. In this way, equal competition will be ensured, and there will also be equal opportunities to establish a high level of activity on a Norwegian base. And that's important to us in the Progress Party, because it helps to preserve value creation and also develop Norwegian pedestal further.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e405	It's probably the replicator that's going to answer, but I wanted to maybe assist the replicator a little bit with an answer to the previous question, which was asked by the representative of Rahm. To measure the attractiveness of the Norwegian base only by looking at the interest in buying the ongoing, mature business, i.e. the field of production, I think you should be very careful with. It'll always be attractive. But the interesting thing is whether it's interesting to invest as much as before on Norwegian pedestal. It's the litmus test. So to my question directly to the Progress Party. I wonder if the Progress Party at Stortinget is talking in the group – to ask directly: are you coordinating policy? For today, the Stortinget is about to adopt the Right’s proposal to involve consultants on a broad basis in order to review the competitiveness of the Norwegian base. Finally, it happens. It was rejected last year, but now it happens. And that's excellent. It is now granted to independent, international, highly competent consultants to review and report on this, which must be reasonably objective. This is how the Progress Party proposes in the vote on the revised national budget: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a selection to evaluate the framework conditions of the Norwegian socket’. But a sample at the top of this must have only one effect, namely that it will take even longer. I'm a little surprised that the Progress Party of All has the belief in public selection where a slightly more market-oriented solution has now been chosen – whether I have to be allowed to say it this way with the address of the Council of State – namely to hire consultants for this, which I think is a reasonable use of resources. And then the Progress Party will have a political selection! I don't think this is much like the Progress Party. At least it's double work. One actually excludes the other, if you're not just interested in spending the most time on it. But here I think it's actually urgent, because this work should actually have been started for the longest time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e417	I do not know if the representative Foss bombed a bit when he looked in the calendar. What we are dealing with today is the oil spill. We have not come so far that we have begun to deal with the revised national budget yet. As far as I know, the revision will be examined on Friday, and I think it is natural in this respect to take up the comments and any proposals that are in the vote on the revision. I must honestly admit that I have not had time to read it. It was in my shelf today and was the size of a phone catalogue. I think Foss gets to take that line on Friday, and I'm sure he'll get an answer. As far as the Progress Party is concerned, it is clear that we have become a large group, but we talk together, of course, when we coordinate our policies in this area. As the representative Foss knows, it has been – I kept saying – a double run with the oil message and revised. Foss referred to something that is in the setting of the revised, and I have not, as I said, read it. However, a broad public body does not necessarily need to consist solely of public persons and bureaucrats.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e424	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e427	Listening to the noise level of the opposition argument can be seen as a debate characterised by deep dividing lines and insoluble conflicts. It is possible that the tone is a little bit more muffled here in the hall than in the run-up to this debate. For example, the representative Olav Akselsen spent his time at home on Stord industriously using microphone and whipping up the mood against the Government. Together with the representative Blattmann, he also operated with the trade unions Aker Stord, Aker Verdal and Umoe in Haugesund and came to Haugesund's newspaper with violent results against the parliamentary leader Einar Steensnæs. On the same night, the government was standing in front of the Stortinget and characterised it as the paralytic of action, that the government jeopardized the workplaces, etc. However, if we look at the conclusions drawn, and in particular what proposals are now being made, it seems that the Storting is actually relatively coherent in terms of the framework conditions for oil and gas activities. It is joyous, and I am convinced that the industry too has earned a great deal of consensus and predictability on the part of the authorities. If the oil price were just as predictable, we would not have had the major problems that led to today's debate. Today, the price is $16.37 a.m. barrels, and it may appear that the oil price has stabilised at a higher and more comfortable level than was the case when the large investment cuts were adopted. But what characterises the oil market is precisely the great fluctuations and thus also great uncertainty about future developments. The cold shower industry got at the large fall in the oil price for a short period of time, was perhaps a healthy reminder that long-term plans must take account of such fluctuations. The oscillations are illustrated by the fact that we have to plan a new one in order to be up-to-date with one big message. When the additional message comes, the situation has changed again. In any case, it tells us that the basic uncertainty of this industry must teach both politicians and businesses to live with, and it should make everyone talk with a little less letters and with a little less sloping certainty about what has been done wrong and how to deal with today's situation. Norwegian oil and gas activities shall be organised for well-being, the environment and the long-term. An important objective of the activity is that resources contribute to ensuring well-being and employment. Another important objective is that Norway should be a leading country on environmental issues, while being a major energy producer. The work done through the ENVIRONMENTAL OCEAN is therefore of great importance. A third important objective is that oil and gas activities must have a long-term perspective. The extraction must take place at a reasonable rate. The values have to be managed in the long term, so that they also benefit later generations. The construction of the petroleum fund is therefore important for this purpose. For example, it could be discussed whether there was a sensible policy when, in the early 1970s, the Bratteli government wound up the growth of consumption at a dangerous pace, based on large government loans abroad. Thus, a real wage growth and a welfare growth were taken forward. We granted ourselves a real wage increase of 4 pst. annual in the period 1974-78. Then we had to pay off the debt beyond the 1980s, and when the Willoch government went off in May 1986, the foreign debt was paid off, and what was called "salting down" money abroad. As soon as the Workers' Party took over the government power again in 1986, the loan started again abroad. Fortunately, this development was reversed, the debt was paid down and we got a cross-political agreement to build up the petroleum fund. The fund is now in place as a buffer against all uncertainties and fluctuations in the oil price. For Norway, uncertainty and the possibility of low oil prices are unfortunate in the future, because after many years of building up production, we are now approaching the top. Low prices and loss of revenue during this period could therefore strongly affect the Norwegian economy and the rate of development of the oil fund. This only underlines further the importance of putting most of the oil revenue into the fund. The objective must be not to use any of the oil fund on the State budget but to allow the fund to be used on the day of the oil age. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee, consisting of the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Right and the SV, believe that the proposed measures in St.meld. No 37 are not sufficient to meet the need for rapid action in industry and that the expectations of improvement in the framework conditions have not been met. However, it is difficult to see what the same parties propose of measures that might meet the expectations they believe have been created. I note that there seems to be a broad dissension about the measures proposed by the Government. It appears strange when these batches conclude that the proposed measures are not sufficient to meet the need for rapid action in the industry, without providing any significant information that could potentially create more jobs. And the representative Sanner's recognition on behalf of the opposition, possibly minus the right, that their proposal is slim, was therefore interesting. No measure, whether tax reductions, mergers or privatisation, can eliminate the inherent market uncertainty. Therefore, it becomes strange when some parties believe that a reduction in the CO2 tax will be the salvaging grip on the current situation in the industry. The main reason for the fall in activity level is that large parts of Norwegian base have become a mature petroleum province, a concept now used for eight to nine years. Combined with low oil prices, this has led players in the market to refuse to make new, large investments now. In order to prevent this from leading to a steep drop in the level of activity, the Government has proposed an adjustment of the instruments. It has been claimed that this is too small, but the concrete measures proposed by other parties in addition to the Government's proposals are in no way so comprehensive and large that they will solve the basic challenges facing the industry. It has been known for many years, not ten years, that the investments on the Norwegian base will not last forever. We're exploiting a non-renewable resource. This means that it will gradually become empty for oil and gas. Then we're going to have a decline in investment whether we want it or not. The fall in the oil price has reinforced this decline, but there is no basis for claiming that the government's industrial policy has led to this. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the measures put forward by the Government will facilitate better socio-economic decisions in the petroleum industry. When the representative Blattmann said that the Workers' Party's action package has been well received by the business community, I understand that. Indeed, the package of measures of the Workers' Party is almost a blue copy of the package of measures presented by the Government. The government is proposing to grant 100 million. kr in the 1999 budget to strengthen project-oriented technology development on the continental shelf. The government provides for a gradual winding-up of the production fee. And for the direct state participation in new permits in the North Sea, the Government lays down the general rule for such participation, and contributes to increased predictability in policy. In order to ensure good business decisions and thus high value creation, the Government will also pursue a policy of extending extraction permits that improves policy predictability. In order to strengthen efforts to internationalise the Norwegian petroleum industry, the Government proposes to grant an additional 2 million. kr for the 1999 financial year. In order to improve the efficiency of exploration activities, the Government proposes to establish concrete long-term plans. The proposed package of measures, together with the main issues the Government will continue to work towards the 2000 notification of petroleum – it was nice to hear that the representative Blattmann also looked forward to this communication – is well adapted to the challenges facing the industry. Political memory is often short. But if you go back to St.meld. No 26 for 1993-94 on the challenges and perspectives of the petroleum industry on the continental shelf, presented by the Brundtland Government, the projections show that investment in the field decided to expand in 1999 would be below 5 billion in 1994. For 1998, the Brundtland government estimated investments in excess of 10 billion in 1994, while investment in real terms amounted to about 70 billion kroner. It should be careful to predict developments in the industry. Finally, it is time that the Right Party and the Workers' Party recognised a responsibility for the decisions taken over the last five years, leaving the basis for the investment summit that we saw last year, and the corresponding case that we see now. When the investment fall is as steep as it is this year, at least the Right Party and the Labour Party must not accuse the Government of this. It is these two parties that, together with the Progress Party, have increased the level. I would like to ask that the respective parties take their share of the responsibility of the representative Blattmann characterized as the investments «staggering».
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e459	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e463	I must admit that I and the representative Rise have a very different view of the situation today. I must say that I was a little surprised when I noticed the enormous need of the Christian People's Party to stick up to the plural. I am also a little surprised that one sees this matter being dealt with today, completely isolated from what is going to be up on Friday, simply revised national budget. I want to say to the representative Rise: If there was such a small difference as he claimed, there should be a reason why the minority had joined the majority, so that it would have been a unanimous committee that had had the option in this matter. If one looks at the Christian People's Party's vote for the last ten years, one sees that they have voted mainly for all matters of expansion that have been up to the realignment in the storeroom. In other words, the Christian People’s Party has pursued a policy that has been in line with the pluralist approach. That is why I am a little surprised when Rise now at the end of its article tries to disclaim that responsibility. In contrast to the central government colleague, who largely voted against all the proposed expansion projects, the Christian People's Party was therefore a pluralist party. Of course, when you want to work with others, you have to give and take. It is clear that the Christian People's Party has given more to oil policy than the Center Party has, and that one has gone in the direction of the Center Party's policy. This government, as everyone knows, decided that we should have a lower activity within the petroleum sector. Now we've achieved it. Then I would think that people from the center government were satisfied with the situation and would try to take some of the era for it instead of depriving themselves of all responsibility. So I'm going to ask the representative Rise to say that it's other than those who work in the yard industry who have seen these protest actions start. They're doing this because they're worried about their own jobs, and I'm asking everyone who's a politician in this room to take it very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e477	I have not said that it is other than the trade unions who have launched protests, but it may be that some of the trade unions have been a little misled into believing that the Workers' Party had some very good and effective measures that they would come with. And when I see in this central government decision the wording that the government's only answer is to grant 400 million. I really need to be allowed to return this to the Labour Party and ask: What has the Labour Party done in the present situation? The Labour Party knew that the case would come – it was already known in 1993. But what did the Workers' Party do? Indeed, in 1997 the 1998 budget proposed a reduction in yard aid from 9 p.m. for 7.5 pst. It was an action proposed by the Labour Party in 1997 when it was known that this development would occur. I have to say that I am surprised that Olav Akselsen can say that there has been full agreement in this room on the level of investment on Norwegian pedestal in the last five years. The representative Akselsen knows that it has not been. I have not thought that the centre parties should discharge themselves from any responsibility for the decisions we have taken. What I've been asking for is that the Workers' Party and the Right must take their share of responsibility, because it is because these parties have significantly increased the level of investment to the level we saw last year, and thus they must also take their share of responsibility for the steep fall that we have seen this year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e484	In today's business today and in the day's revision yesterday, one of the government's freelancers, Terje Johansen, took a dubious settlement with their own party traps and their own government's petroleum policy. While the government parties in the process around Saga have talked about a Norwegian solution and increased state ownership, Terje Johansen is taking orders for privatisation and opening up foreign ownership. Is this a sign of a new conflict between the government parties, or is Terje Johansen alone saying that what I want to say is positive and new signals in the petroleum policy? Otherwise you might wonder if Lars Rise has followed quite well when he claims that there should be such a broad consensus in the setting we are dealing with today. The centre parties have chosen isolation and isolation throughout the whole setting both in terms of reality description and in terms of concrete proposals. The Right Party, the Labour Party and the Advance Party oblige the Government to include the offshore sector in the quota system – a proposal the Minister for the Environment strongly warned against last Wednesday. A revision of the petroleum tax is being put together to oblige the Government to eliminate or reduce the production levy in order to generate investments already in the autumn. There are a large number of suggestions in this setting where the Right Party, the Labour Party and the Advance Party stand together and where the Centre Parties have chosen to work alone. My question to Lars Rise: Do you not recognise that there is a problem at a time when you need leadership, and that the government parties are on a collision course with the bulk of the population in a matter that is so important and crucial for Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e493	I must praise the representative Sanner for a great line, but he must have messed up a little bit with the papers, it was probably a line to the left probably. I don't think I can answer everything when it comes to the representative Terje Johansen and his statements to Today's Business today – I haven't read that. But I know that the nutrition committee was at least completely assembled when it came to the Hydro case. Nobody in the center has said that you don't want foreign ownership. It's not like the center parties have some basic vision in that direction. On the contrary, it was interesting to get this offer from Elf, who showed that the Right's black paint of the conditions on the Norwegian base was completely wrong, because it was found that a foreign company on an independent basis – without reading Right's propaganda material – had understood that it was not so bad on a Norwegian base that Right wanted it to, and that was what we thought was very positive. The government takes its executive responsibility seriously. And the description by the representative Sanner of what has come out of the committee's consideration of these four issues is completely wrong. I must be allowed to mention that the only thing available from concrete proposals from the Right, as far as I can see, is a proposal from the minority in the vote on the report. No 46 for 1997-98, where it says: ‘The Government asks the Government to open group applications in the Norwegian Sea.’ Yes, this will lead to lower costs for the companies to participate, but at least it will not lead to more jobs, rather the opposite. And there are the following suggestions in the setting of St.meld. No 37: ‘The decision asks the Government to take into account that BEES are initially not to participate in the 16th concession round.’ These are the only two concrete proposals that have been put forward by the Right in connection with these communications, and it speaks its clear language. Then there is almost complete dissatisfaction about the Government's package of measures.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e512	I had the longest hope that today we would discuss the future, because that is where the challenges lie. Now, unfortunately, the representative is putting Rise up to discuss the past, and then I feel the need to join that discussion as well. In fact, it is quite right, as the representative Rise says, that there has been a debate in this Chamber on the level of activity in the North Sea, but I have a voting list here that shows that from 1986 until today the Christian People's Party has voted for all the projects in the North Sea with one exception, and that was Norne. And the main reason why they didn't go in for it was because the localization question was unclear, that they wanted it settled. So there were completely different reasons behind it. I still hope that we can put this preliminary debate behind us, because there are no solutions to tomorrow's problem. We have a very acute situation today. People have received permitting notices, and people have been terminated. It's in the situation that thousands of workers have organized themselves. They have even seen themselves on buses, traveled over the mountain and walked on trains – not only towards the Government, but also towards the Stortinget. And they have one heartfelt desire: that this should not be wasted in just a political debate about who is responsible, but that political results come out of it. I have to say that I'm a little surprised when the representative Rise says that there's no difference here, and try to overshadow that there's, after all, a plurality that will have a much stronger slope than the government party wants. And I want to repeat my question: if there's so little distance between the plural and the minority, why hasn't the minority reached out so that they could have been in the settings of the plural?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e523	It must be more a problem for the Workers' Party to find out why more concrete proposals have not been made in the settings, when there has been such a huge level of noise outside this Chamber, where the Government has been accused of both demise and to jeopardize thousands of jobs. Why in the world will there not be proposals on the table from the Labour Party that the Stortinget can be asked to vote on? In fact, I do not see a single proposal from the Labour Party in any of these settings. Then it's a little strange to hear Olav Akselsen describe the situation as so dramatic and that we're in such an acute situation that thousands of workers have organized themselves and come by buses to Stortinget – there aren't many people up here at least today. I think it is a little strange to get this reality description from the representative Akssen with the strong criticism of the Government and at the same time note that in the vote there is not one single proposal from the Workers' Party. I have not denied a single vote that the centre parties have been in this room. The voting we have been voting on, we have to take responsibility for it. I have only asked that the Right Party and the Workers' Party should also take their share of responsibility, because it has not been heard as if neither the Workers' Party nor the Right would have taken responsibility for the dramatic situation that we are experiencing today. That's what my recommendation was all about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e530	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e533	First just for the sake of order: it may seem that Rise has not taken the time to read the setting. The opinion refers to a number of proposals which are not put forward here, but which are put forward in the vote on the revised national budget which will be debated on Friday. So a little bit of honesty in the debate, I think we all would have stood by. The expectations for the spillover notification of new framework conditions for oil and gas activities were high. The government's own spokesmen even helped to uplift expectations. However, the main reason why many looked forward to the notification is the great need for concrete measures that can bring new optimism into the industry. The cancellation notice was notified after the oil price had fallen to the 10 dollar barrel, and after the first signals of a sharp fall in the forecasts for investments on the Norwegian base. Our society and our economy are vulnerable to major fluctuations in the petroleum industry. Lower revenues from petroleum activity means that less money can be allocated to future pensions and less money for other good purposes. Lower investment rates on the base also mean fewer jobs for the supplier industry, and thus many local environments are affected by increased unemployment. This may be the most tangible consequences, but the reality is that the ring-fence can be significant for the rest of society and business, because large parts of the land-based industry are directly or indirectly involved in the petroleum industry. In this context, it is particularly important to remember that Norway, in the petroleum industry, has developed a competence and has acquired a technological foundation that is at the forefront of the international context. The lack of strategy and concrete action in the Single European Act means that the Government has in practice blown the ‘danger over’. And if the problems in the petroleum business had been exclusively linked to the low oil price, there might have been a basis for such an approach. But the reality is that the oil price drop has revealed, accelerated and reinforced other underlying oil business and Norwegian oil policy problems. Internationally, we are witnessing quite dramatic changes in the petroleum industry. Competition is increasing both between companies and between countries that want to attract investment. Several countries have now opened their socket to foreign companies. If we are also to be sure in the future that foreign companies will invest both capital and competence on a Norwegian base, the base must be competitive. In other words, it has to be as attractive to invest here as elsewhere. The structural changes and increasing competition affect Norwegian oil policy. In addition, we also have a number of other challenges: Norwegian pedestal has been characterized by great findings and high incomes. Now we have come into a more mature phase with more marginal findings. An unfortunate incentive structure with, among other things, particularly high marginal taxes, liberal depreciation rules and large state holdings have led to a reduction in the focus on cost control, with large exceedances as a result. While other countries have provided relief to the petroleum industry, the central government has proposed a worsening of the framework conditions for most cross-roads. While oil companies around the world are privatised, the majority of them doubt the state’s ownership. Nobody expected these challenges to be solved solely with this big message, but it has to be taken in the right direction. It is to be wondered whether the Government and the central parties do not see, or will not see, that we are in a time gap where the political and strategic choices can be decisive for the petroleum industry. In a situation where there is a need for leadership, the Government and the central parties place themselves on the sideline. We can see that, among other things. in the setting currently being treated, where the centre batches have chosen insulation. Both in terms of reality description and solutions, the centre has chosen a different route from the majority of the population, consisting of the Right Party, the Labour Party and the Advance Party. The majority of the population may force the necessary decisions, but it reduces predictability when the Government is on a collision course with the bulk of the population in an area as important as the petroleum policy. A strategy is needed to bring the petroleum activity into a new phase. We have a unique starting point in terms of natural resources and competences. Norway can develop into a leading European energy nation, and it should be possible to bring together both industry and the political environment on a strategy that can achieve this vision. If Norway is to become a leading European energy nation, we must also have ambitions to create leading European energy companies. In that case, companies must be given development opportunities and framework conditions which increase their competitiveness. As politicians, we must recognise that internationalisation, with increasing international competition, common competition rules and full capital mobility, has led to the fact that old governance tools are no longer effective. We could like it or not, but that's the reality. This does not mean that the policy is parked and the market is in place, but that the instruments need to be adapted to the new reality. Instead of demonstrating powerlessness, we have to highlight what politics can do about it. The challenge is to ensure that in 10 to 15 years' time we still have solid Norwegian oil environments with head office in Norway, and that Norwegian pedestal is still an attractive investment area. The process around Saga Petroleum in the last few weeks gives no clear indication of the political direction. The process has revealed the risk of a mix of roles when both States have interests, is the grantor and the examiner. Neither the Minister of Energy nor the Minister of Industry has handled this matter with a particularly strong hand. But what is perhaps most worrying is that the central parties and the Workers' Party signal that the state will spend billions of taxpayers' money to increase the state's ownership of Hydro if the company gets bought Saga. Then we are left with less diversity, less competition and more state on Norwegian pedestal. It'll be taking two steps back. Today, its direct and indirect ownership of the petroleum industry is around 80 pst. It is very high compared to other Western countries and no good guarantee of creativity, dynamism and cost focus in the industry. The right will have a better balance between private and government interests. The question of the partial privatisation of Statoil is on the political agenda. The right considers that there is a pressing need for political clarification about the future ownership of Statoil. If this choice is postponed, we may risk Statoil being stuck behind and unable to take advantage of the opportunities created by the internationalisation of the oil industry and the fusion of European energy markets. It is now the future oil and energy industry is in the cast. This is why the Right wants a principle decision on the sub-privatisation of Statoil already in 1999. Principal ownership has become a hindrance to the further development of the company. In the setting, the Right points to a number of proposals that should be implemented, both in the short and slightly longer term. We are pleased that there has been a majority to include the offshore sector in the national quota system and to oblige the Government to reduce or eliminate the production fee in order to produce projects already in the autumn. Furthermore, the Government is required to prepare a revision of the petroleum tax. However, we are both disappointed and surprised that the Workers' Party has not been willing to reduce the CO2 tax already this autumn. The right proposes to reduce the CO2 tax by 30 pst. At best, there is double communication The Workers' Party has operated when Stoltenberg and Jagland with sky-high cigaretteing criticises the centre government for act paralysis, while the Workers' Party itself is voting against reducing the CO2 tax – contrary to the recommendation of LO, from industry, from TBL and from ECON. The rhetoric is not quite in style with the contents, to say it carefully. There is a need for a new and more market-oriented oil policy, characterised by less regulation and more market, less country and more private, an oil policy that is less red tape and more transparent and flexible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e583	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e586	The representative Sanner was in this with leadership, and that the right in a way shows the way in relation to stability and long-termity for such a large and important industry as the oil industry. But it is after all not more than one year since the Right voted for a significant increase in the CO2 charge on the Norwegian base. One year later, the Right proposes to remove the CO2 tax, without we know anything in particular about the importance it will have for employment. All we know about it is that we then move a lot of money from the state to private. At least we know that the proposal of the Workers' Party to reduce the CO2 tax in new fields will have a major impact on the assessment of whether new projects are to be launched and that it can have a significant impact on employment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e595	That was two right and two wrong. It's right that the Right shows the way, and it's right that the Right believes that there is a need for leadership. However, it is not right that the right will remove the CO2 tax, and it is not right to know the consequences of the proposal that the Labour Party is promoting, that we need to differentiate between old and new fields. When the Right voted for an increased CO2 tax last spring, we did so because it was asked cabinet questions. The representative knows that very well. Our assessment was that it would be a bigger problem that time to bring Thorbjørn Jagland back than to gather about the budget that you did. But it was because of a cabinet question. The right has suggested reducing the CO2 tax by 30 pst, and we actually know quite a bit about how it will work. This has been demonstrated by the LO, from the Shipowners’ Federation, from the oil industry itself and in the report prepared by ECON. The problem with the sky-high, specialty CO2 tax is that it acts as a gross tax that makes socio-economic profitable investments not economically profitable. In other words, field development may not be realised, and it may also mean that fields are closed earlier, because the fee contributes to making it unprofitable. The proposal put forward by the Labour Party itself to differentiate between old and new fields has, on the other hand, been a strong warning to industry, and it has also warned the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Oil and Energy, because it is difficult to distinguish between the old and the new in terms of where the emissions come from, and it may cause unfortunate distortions. So I would recommend the Workers' Party to look into the Right's proposal in advance of the revision of the national budget being discussed on Friday. I think that will be seen as a positive signal before the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e609	The Representative Truer is strong in the line, but he is not particularly successful in proving that the Government has seen itself on the side bar. On the other hand, I would like to point out a comitology comment in which the Right opinion on what has led to the Norwegian oil and gas industry being in a difficult situation. Large findings, high oil prices, high profits, which, of course, have brought with them high taxes and missing cost control, all that characterizes the Clone industry, have right-handled words in the setting. The only thing missing is a never so little recognition that this development was always on the right side as an avid driver, and today, faced with such clear facts, the party continues to insist that the market governs best, without the need for any corrective political intervention. But isn't the time now for Right to put such ideological horses on the stable, in the light of the party itself expressing in the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e616	It is not right when the representative Dale says that the right in this position and otherwise believes that the market is best managed without political interference. On the right, on the contrary, it has always considered that the market must operate under the conditions and frameworks set by political authorities, including in the case of the petroleum industry. It is clear that the State must have an important role both as a concessionaire and as an inspector, and that we must have legislation to ensure that health, environment and safety are taken into account. That's what we're going to have. But at the same time, we allow ourselves to point out that we have now come up with a regulatory regime at such a high level that there is a need for deregulation also in the petroleum industry. I would also like to thank you for saying that the Right put precise words on what the problem is. Yes, it is important to recognise that very many of the problems we face today are due to the fact that during the period when we had great findings and high incomes, the level of taxes and charges increased, the regulation regime turned up, but now the time has come to look ahead and make sure that we have a strategy that can bring Norwegian pedestal into a new phase. That's what we in this setting with careful words are trying to point out a direction for. We do not believe that these problems can be solved through an additional message that is being addressed in a month in Stortinget; we also want to spend time towards the state budget for the autumn, and not least in relation to the petroleum notification coming next year. And then there's probably a need for a pragmatic attitude, as the Right has, both at the intersection between public and private, and at the intersection between national and international. So I think here's the opportunity to find broad compromises, but then you have to be concerned with the balance between private and state, and between national and international.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e625	I would like to repeat a question that I previously addressed to Øyvind Korsberg from the Advancement Party, but as Per-Kristian Foss found it necessary to answer on his behalf. As regards the attractiveness of Norwegian pedestal, both the Progress Party and the Right have said very clearly that Norwegian pedestal is no longer attractive, it is not competitive, almost in all fields, the Right and Advance Party say that Norway is in a hopeless position compared to the rest of the world. My question to the Right is: Does the Right perceive that Elf's interest in Saga is an expression that the framework conditions are so bad that there is no attraction attached to the Norwegian base? So to the second question that the Progress Party also did not want to answer. In our view, the level of activity has been unnaturally high in 1997 and 1998, despite the fact that in 1993 we saw significant falls to date. Does the Right believe that bringing the level of activity back to what we had in 1997 or 1998, or does one see the need for us to put the level of activity somewhat lower in the future, but perhaps something more stable than has been the case in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e634	The right has allowed itself to point out that the process around Saga could reduce the attractiveness of the socket. Per-Kristian Foss tried to assist the proponents of the Progress Party in a previous succession, saying that there is a difference of interest in buying a company and being interested in investing capital, technology and human resources on the base. To attract us foreign companies to invest on Norwegian pedestal, it must be attractive. Our concern was linked to the strong signals given by both the centre parties and the Workers' Party that a Norwegian solution was preferred. Minister of Economic Affairs Lars Sponheim on the TV 2 news on Thursday 27 May and stated that it would be pointless for other companies now to submit bids after Statoil and Hydro had agreed. There are strong signals to the stock exchanges and to the international oil environments that we in Norway think Norwegian and preferably State. We believe that it is a problem when the state's direct and indirect shares on Norwegian pst are on just over 80 pst. We believe that it is a problem when the majority of the operators go to Norwegian companies, it is a signal to the foreign companies that they may not be as desired as they should be. We believe that it is in Norway's interest that the major international oil companies invest on Norwegian soil. It brings capital to Norway, it brings technology to Norway and it brings human competence to our country. That is why we are committed to increasing the attractiveness of the socket and giving clear signals that foreign companies are welcome on Norwegian pedestal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e641	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e644	A few weeks ago, the Norwegian oil and yard industry outside Stortinget demonstrated. Put ahead of the trudging target of a strong downward alignment of the level of activity and the loss of jobs, they turn to the government in the hope of avoiding such dramatic developments. Ironically, the government parties had to answer for themselves, the parties, and it was especially true of the Center Party, which for a long time in advance and without luck had been in favour of a high rate of oil extraction. One of our most important arguments was that the downfall could be too steep, and that the community, instead of getting a soft landing, would be at risk of being hit by major migration problems. When the time was right and the culmination was a fact, it seemed backwards that we, of all, would accept the mounds that had to come from adding and community. Today, everyone can sign that the rise in Norwegian oil and gas extraction is characterized by great findings, high oil prices and huge profits, all that has made it difficult to change in time. So that's the way we're dealing with the heels. We have to think about it, both in the short and long term. The problem has been addressed by the Government, both in the oil and gas messages and in the additional messages. The opposition, which refrains from recognising its responsibility for what has passed, is essentially at the hands of the Government. No rhetoric can camouflage it, it shows the debate here today. The two large-scale messages are based on very different situations, the one characterised by strong growth in the industry, the other marked by the stagnation that reported the fall in oil prices. But in the short time perspective, the differences are greatest; in some years' time, investment will at all times decrease, completely independent of the oil price. Therefore, there is every reason to consider collecting the material submitted by the Government. What do we do when the problems persist before we expect them? Of course, the Norwegian oil and yard industry is a heavy-rooted affair, and the government can't cough up incentives at a speed, but something has been done that can dampen the difficult situation under seal, especially in the yard industry. In view of further developments in the future, the Government is presenting a policy that is fast to be referred to as a strategy, contrary to all the nice and ambitious word used to characterize it. The government will increase competitiveness by lowering costs, just at the points where the industry has focused. The most important thing is to invest in new technology. Next, the Government proposes measures to facilitate work processes and organisation, e.g.: by clarifying the role to be played and by clarifying the principle of the extension of extraction rights. And then, at the point where the focus is often greater in the debate, but which, in the opinion of the industry, still comes in a clear third place, the government proposes a gradual phasing out of the production charge. It is important to maintain that successful cost developments in the future are linked to new technologies, the organisation of oil production and, ultimately, taxes and charges. Let's not turn around on that list, the elements that are first mentioned are clearly the most important. This strategy is not challenged by the opposition, but the objections that exist are quite marginal. I note that the opposition party initially claims that the measures taken by the Government are inadequate, but cannot see that they put on the table any other way. And the Workers' Party's idea of defining the CO2 tax fields for fields is the party standing alone, because it will obviously complicate the system, lead to bureaucracy and thus delay rather than force the field development. Thoughts of this kind may indicate that the three centre of gravity of the Government's oil strategy has not been fully attached to the nation's largest party. We should e.g. refrain from levying taxes which complicate the process of working in the industry. We note that the opposition has gathered on some proposals aimed at replacing the CO2 tax with an allowance system, or possibly reducing the fee pending an allowance scheme. The proposals are discussed in the context of the revised national budget, and there may be reason to recall that a quota system is not intended as a saving measure for industry. The question of the future structure of the Norwegian oil and gas industry is not a central issue in today's debate. The future role and ownership of Statoil will only be properly assessed when the Government submits its petroleum message in the spring of 2000. I'm glad that the government takes the time to do that, at least there's no need to let big swings, which are quite typical of the oil and gas industry, dominate when the structure itself is seen under the lupa.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e665	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e668	The central government has made a lot of proposals, they say, which industry appreciates. One of the proposals made by industry, at least on the right, is to ensure that group applications are opened in the Norwegian Sea. Now the representative Rise from the centre parties said that this would not do anything, he said that it would not create one job. The point is that by joining forces and applying for shares, companies can reduce their spending, and then it becomes attractive, and then there will be jobs. The representative of the Central Party does not see the possibility as, among other things, Right here, but which unfortunately does not see the Christian People's Party? The representative of the Central Party John Dale does not see that it would be very important for the oil companies to have a reduction in the CO2 tax, and that it makes sense to address what the Right here has proposed, namely a reduction of 30 pst. – instantly – so that we now get a response from the Storting regarding what is happening in the yard industry and in the oil sector because the oil sector is holding back investments?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e677	When it comes to the last representative, Johnsen – the question of how to manage the CO2 tax – it is important to be aware that such a charge is imposed for environmental policy reasons. If a fee is to be disbursed on that basis, an option has to be introduced that can give equal results. And as we know, it is now being discussed whether an allowance system could replace the CO2 levy, and a proposal from the opposition in the revised national budget is, as far as I am concerned, about asking the Government to come up with proposals that could lead to a changing system in line with the Kyoto Protocol. I would like to repeat what I said in my post: The removal of CO2 tax cannot be considered as a saving measure for the industry, as a cost-relieving measure. The point of possibly removing the CO2 charge is to replace the fee with a completely different system that will hopefully produce the same results. I hope that's the argument underlying the discussion we're leading here. When it comes to that representative Johnsen mentions group requests, I'll show you the answers we've given from the government fraction's side.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e686	A majority – the members of the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party – say in the vote of St.meld. No 37 that they wish to liquidate the production levy ‘fieldly and progressively’ and will be in favour of its adoption in the context of the review of the national budget this year. The Government Parties, on the other hand, will come back with plans for the current fields for the 2000 budget. Then it's too late, as the situation is for the oil industry and the yard industry today. There is an urgent need for immediate action, more immediate action, as the Workers' Party has in its proposed nutrition package, a package that has many more elements than the Government's. It was therefore wrong that the representative Rise said they were almost identical. Did not the government parties realize that immediate action is now necessary, or is it such that they will not understand it? Where is the Central Party's policy, not least district policy, when – hopefully – they know what problems unemployment creates, and what problems it poses in smaller communities that businesses have to put down?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e695	I want to repeat what I said in my post: it is ironic to hear that representatives from the Workers' Party and also from other parties, those who have always been the drivers of a strong oil extraction, and who have ignored our objections to that point, are now in a way correcting the shooting at us and asking whether we do not see the problems that develop. Obviously, we see these problems, they've seen us for a long time – I pointed out that it's a challenge that you can't cross with a hare lab – and that has led the government to put up a strategy in several points. Technology is the most important thing and improvement of work processes and organisation – there are huge gains to be gained here. And of course, we also need to adjust some taxes – that is a point that comes in the third place, but is important enough. There is the production fee, and it will gradually go into the Government to wind up. And of course, when it says "gradual", it's because we want to have some control over it. The fact that the Labour Party at this point is a little ahead of us and will show that they have an offensive, I understand that for political reasons, but not for factual reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e701	I understand to the representative Dale that he thought it was terribly unfair that his party etc. had to answer for today’s situation. Personally, I have to say that I have a great understanding of it. First of all, it is such that the government is held accountable in all respects. But not least because both Prime Minister Bondevik and Minister of Oil and Energy Arnstad earlier in our announcement that they would bring concrete action into the revised national budget, it was quite natural that many were disappointed when that did not happen. One very different thing is, of course, that if the Central Party had got multiples for its policies in the previous period, there would have been a lot more people who had participated in these protests, because they had already been laid off several years ago. Once again, I am surprised when I hear posts from representatives of the government party and the great need they have to hide the distinctions that exist before this policy area, and the need to link up with the plurality of their policies in this area. And the reason why I got surprised is that these parts, after all, have gone to the selection of a lower activity in this area. Now it's getting a lower activity, and then it might be interesting to ask if the Center Party is now happy with the situation we have today, where, after all, there's a low activity, and if they want to defend it, and if it's such that these things are going to be included in the Government's showcasing list of actions that they've managed to get through.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e708	I found it strange that the representative Aksen doesn't understand what was one of my main points. Of course, we are not happy that we have come up with a situation where investment falls rapidly, leading to major problems both for those added and for communities. We didn't like such a development. That's what we said years ago could happen, and it was this prognosis that we took to heart when we designed our alternative proposals. That's what's related here. Then I have another comment. I noticed that the representative Aksenssen, like other representatives from the opposition, is trying to make it a point in this case that it is the government that connects to the opposition. the Government is attached to the proposed opposition. But that's the opposite of it. One can read in all documents here that representatives from the opposition first go out with a strong verbal criticism, and then in the next round to swallow about everything the government suggests. Yes, even where the CO2 tax is involved, the opposition clearly feels for a little uncertain reason. After all, what they are asking for is for the Government to make proposals that they can later decide on, because it is a complicated matter, and therefore it is really up to the Government to take this matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e715	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e718	I'm taking up the suggestions SV has in the past. S. No 211. The one proposal is a proposal which we have drawn up before, and which the majority of Stortinget have voted against, namely a proposal for a tempo selection aimed at ensuring the stability and long-term sustainability of petroleum-related activities. Had these proposals been adopted and followed up earlier by the Storting, we would not have had the crisis we see today within this operation. But now, the Storting is getting a new opportunity to get on the offensive and to take more governance for offshore as well as land-based business. It is the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party that have failed to control the activity associated with oil and gas extraction. That is why the main responsibility for the crisis we are seeing today must be placed. The challenge therefore goes especially to the Workers' Party – whether the party is still going to leave the market or whether they want to participate in what SV wants, i.e. a stronger governance. If they vote against this, it means that they have the same policy as the Right Party and the Progress Party for this area. So a little bit of bragging to the committee. SV has worked for many years to increase the safety of transport to and from oil installations. With the Norne-Ulukka in a fresh memory, where there was a search for survivors in the wrong place for two hours, a consensual committee has now joined the requirement from among others. Norwegian Air Force Federation on Controlled Airspace for Helicopter Traffic. Now it is up to the Government to make sure that this is followed up quickly, while at the same time cleaning up the responsibilities. Now the responsibility is spread on too many instances, and thus the possibility of cleaning up less. I hope the government does this quickly. I am sure that at a lower and smoother pace on the Norwegian base, we would not have had the trends towards a crisis that we now have. Now the market itself is leading to a rapid and brutal cut-off. But that doesn't mean SV shouldn't be involved in cleaning up what multiples here have done. SV proposes half a billion dollars for a package focusing on skills development, but concrete measures are also proposed for the yard and supplier industries. This must also be noted by the representative of the Christian People's Party, which is mentioned in the position of the oil and energy committee. An unaccompanied measure by SV is the proposal to cut the CO2 charge. Now it wasn't as the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Right promised the workers outside here, that it would cut the CO2 tax. There's nothing cut right now, and that's good. But the coal and greenhouse gas comrades in the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Right are going to come back to this to the fall, and then one could risk cutting the CO2 charge, despite several of these parties claiming to be offensive in relation to international commitments such as: The Kyoto agreement adds up. Now we have hope that the Labour Party will seek cooperation with other parties than the parties they have followed so far in this area, that one moves a little away from the Right and the Advance Party. It will also be a way for the Labour Party to get a little bit more familiar on issues related to the environment. The government has proposed a 100-million technology development fund. kr. But what they've forgotten about this fund is putting in leaders that go into climate and environment. There is no lead in this government's proposal, a so-called environmental government, when it comes to that issue. Therefore, in the revised budget, SV proposes that one should get an environmental right angle on this technology fund, and asks the centre party to follow this up. SV has a holistic policy for the development of petroleum-related activity where climate and environmental problems are central. That's why I just want to show you our tempo selection proposal, and ask the Stortinge to join in.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e737	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e742	SV realizes that we have a crisis in the offshore industry, and they believe that the solution to it had been that we had previously had a calmer pace in terms of investment and development. The truth is probably something like that: had SV been running, we wouldn't have any problems, because we wouldn't have any activity at all. SV has voted against all expansion requests and all that has to do with the oil industry for many years. Even so, SV believes that we have a crisis. But SV has no suggestions on what to do to get out of the difficult situation. SV will not do anything about the CO2 tax, they will not reduce other barriers for new companies that want to establish themselves on a Norwegian base, for example. by looking at the tax system and doing something about the licensing policy, and SV is postponing its decision on the production fee. At all: What action would SV have hoped for the Government to come, when they are not satisfied with what has been proposed by the opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e747	I can understand that the representative Hegna from the Workers' Party is trying to make it an SV problem that the Workers' Party and the Progress Party have run an irresponsibly high pace in the North Sea, which results in one getting such crisis-like things as one has today. I can also understand that the working party's Hegna is engaged on SV because we do not want to remove the CO2 charge. No, because that doesn't make sense. It makes sense to have a climate policy that reduces greenhouse gas emissions, not a policy that the Labour Party has, which increases them and creates greater problems. It doesn't recognise that greenhouse gas emissions are a problem. It's a very challenge for the Labour Party, and that challenge should take Hegna and his party. When it comes to the measures that SV does not propose, I wonder that it is not just the representative of the Christian People's Party who has not read the setting; it does not have Hegna either. This is on page 4, and reference is also made to our proposals in the revision. I would like to ask the representative of Hegna to read the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e756	I don't just want to criticise SV, I actually want to start by commending them, not least because of what Hallgeir Langeland has faced in terms of helicopters and aviation safety in the North Sea. But when that is said, I also hope that SV sees the problem that the shipyard and oil industry is now up to. It surprises me that SV will have a socialist governance of the oil sector as well. Today, the Eastern European countries look to the West to be able to introduce market-based developments. The high pace in the North Sea, to which Langeland refers, has not been a problem. What has been the problem is that when the pace goes down, taxes and charges do not go down at the same rate as it should, because it went up fast enough when the pace was high. I would also like to remind the representative of Langeland that there are scientists in Shell who say that we should get up the oil as soon as possible, get it translated and put the money into the oil fund, because there we will have more pleasure in it than if it is in the deep in the future. Does SV not see that we must have a market-based development on this product? So it's not like the socialist idea is useful today, as the Eastern European countries thought it was yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e769	I find it interesting that the Right wants to involve the old Soviet Union and Eastern Europe in the debate on oil and gas policy, and for all things, the representative Johnsen has to do it. But what the representative Johnsen is having problems with is precisely the policy that his market liberalism has led to in the North Sea, namely that one has had a crisis in the shipbuilding and supply industries. It is the policy that Jan Johnsen and his party, together with the Labour Party and the Progress Party, unfortunately create these problems. So the challenge for the representative Johnsen is not to tell Langeland about the old Eastern European states, it's to tell you how to solve problems in the shipbuilding and supply industries. That's the challenge. And that challenge I'm recording that Johnsen doesn't take. If Johnsen had done what SV has proposed repeatedly in Stortinget, he would have gone for a tempo selection that could sue for long-termity and stability before this enterprise, he would have done what was reasonable. It might be called socialism, but at least it makes sense. To the question of Shell, I would like to say that my experience with this company in relation to the Shell refinery at Sola means that I listen little to the arguments from Shell.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e781	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e785	The Government has announced a major communication on the competitiveness of Norwegian petroleum activities to be promoted in spring 2000. There will be an important and necessary review. In order to mitigate the steep fall in the level of activity and to strengthen the basis of a long-term resource management, the Government is already promoting proposals for adjustments in the instruments to the industry. It's positive. When adjusting the instruments, it is important to know which instruments are most appropriate in relation to the objectives set. The industry itself has indicated that an estimated 50 pst. of the cost challenge is related to new technology, 30 pst. for work processes and organisation and 20 pst. to the framework. In recent debates, many have apparently forgotten this distribution among several components and have largely focused on taxes and taxes. The government's proposals are well-balanced with the various elements that industry itself has identified as central to cost development. I would particularly like to point out the proposal to grant 100 million. kr to strengthen project-oriented technology development on the continental shelf. I have great expectations that that project can produce results in an interaction between the Norwegian Research Council and industry. It is very positive that all the proposals promoted by the Government are widely accepted. It shows that it was wrong when it was said that the government did not take the situation seriously in the industry, and it turned out that it was wrong when it was said that there were no concrete proposals that were of importance. On a few points, the central parties and the majority have chosen different formulations and different weightings as expressed in the committee setting. The Government proposes to wind up the production fee and will return to the liquidation rate in the budget submitted in October. The majority allow the winding-up to start now, but underline that the removal must be done field-by-field and gradually. It means that there is support for the Government's intention and thinking, but a desire for a certain amount of support. Consistent with the comments of the central parties in the financial committee's position on the revised national budget, where they are asking the Government to contact the industry to look at which parts of the framework can be adjusted with a view to achieving rapid results, there is no basis for saying that at this important point there is a significant difference between the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party, and the central parties stand for. In the case of the CO2 tax, there may be greater disagreement as to the importance of this charge. But when it comes to the conclusion, it's not there for the big differences either. In the face of striking workshop workers, the Workers' Party suggested that the CO2 tax should be halved in new fields. The right would cut the fee by 30 pst. continuous. We are now recording that the majority have gathered to ask the Government to make proposals on how to reduce the CO2 tax. The scope and arrangements are not concluded and are positive. It is important that we get such a problem from an overall review, where not least the environmental aspect is given great importance. This criticism of the Government has been partly strong. That is why it is difficult to see the lines from this criticism to the proposals that are now being promoted. SV might be the best example. They agree with the comments of the majority's criticism that the Government does not follow its promises, but does not even make proposals. On the other hand, SV disagrees that there should be some change in the production fee, they are against the changes in the shares of the SDE, and they do not want any reductions in the CO2 tax either. So, according to Hallgeir H. Langeland, they're promoting a package of measures of almost 450 million. kr. Elements of that action package are 400 additional student housing, 3000 new action sites, etc. There are none of the proposals that the industry has asked for, and that the industry needs. And then it's strange to think back that SV was among the parties that were famous by strikers when the government was heavily criticized, and then they come back here with proposals that are far to the fore of what the government is promoting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e808	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e811	I have to admit that in this area of politics, as in so many other areas, I have a problem understanding what the Left really stands for, what the policies they want, and what the future communities they want to shape. The left is at least part of a government that aims to have a lower activity within the offshore industry. Now you've got a lower activity. I had expected today that at least some of the representatives from the government party should say that they were happy about it. It has been so far, and I could imagine asking Kvassheim if he, as a representative from the centre party, would like to be satisfied that one today has a lower activity than one had, for example. last year. The left has become an exponent to improve the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. Now it's like a lot of these companies are living off the big ones. Small and medium-sized enterprises depend on the survival of large enterprises and groups in order for them to have a living. The Minister of Industry has been totally absent from the debate on the situation of the shipbuilding industry, and perhaps he is working quietly – what do I know? At any rate, a current question could be: Where is the Minister of Industry? I will not ask this question. On the other hand, I have a question to the Left about the whole of them having a policy for the big businesses, for the groups, and whether there are concerns about the thousands of jobs that are about to disappear here, or is the Left's answer that the thousands that are currently receiving letter of resignation in the post should start on their own or start in a small or medium-sized enterprise?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e820	It impresses me when so many workers meet outside of Stortinget and express concern about their own job and the company they work in. This has been taken seriously by the government, and therefore it comes back with proposals in connection with the oil notification announced next year. However, due to the need for immediate action, one has already come to the Grand Duchy with proposals for action. I said in my post that I was very satisfied that these were considered so valuable and exciting that there is broad connection with them in the Stortinget. So the answer to the main question of Olav Akselsen is: Yes, the left cares about these businesses and is concerned about laying the foundation for them to move on. It is also the answer to what the Minister of Industry has contributed to this. In addition to having spent the last few months travelling around many communities in Norway and meeting employees and managers both in small and large companies, he has been actively involved in the government’s work on the policy we are discussing today. But let me get into a problem that's interesting to discuss with Olav Akselsen. Last year the Government was criticized for wanting to postpone some projects. That criticism was followed by full agreement with the Government's arrangements. But Olav Aksensen confronted me in this room with a company in my own municipality – Kværner Egersund – where he said that the postponement on Snorre would mean leave during this year. The result is that Kværner has had a record high activity this year. And the postponement of Snorre makes them also have work until the next summer. Together with what we are now proposing, this postponement can hopefully lay the foundation for activity in the coming years as well. It's the kind of balancing of activity that I think is important to create security around the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e829	On Thursday 27 May in the TV2 news, the leader of the Left Party, Minister for Industry Lars Sponheim, expressed satisfaction with what has been called the slaughter of the private oil company Saga Petroleum by Hydros and Statoil. Let me just add in brackets that the Minister of Industry also manages a majority in the company Hydro. Furthermore, in the same interview, the Minister for Industry said that it would be pointless for others to try to make bids now that Hydro and Statoil had agreed. In today's Business today and in the News of the Day yesterday, one of the government's freelancers, Terje Johansen, took a lengthy settlement – at least that's how it must be understood – with his own party traps, with his own party leader and with the government's petroleum policy, pointing out a path that goes in a completely different direction than the government parties have set up. While Lars Sponheim and the Government have called for a Norwegian solution and increased state ownership, Terje Johansen points out a different direction, calls for privatisation and wishes to welcome foreign companies. Let me add that the Right is pleased with the signals coming from Terje Johansen. My question to the parliamentary leader of the Left is whether he agrees with the Minister of Industry and Party leader Lars Sponheim that there should be a preference for a Norwegian solution and increased state ownership, or whether he agrees with the direction of freelancer Terje Johansen to give preference to a foreign company, and that increased privatisation in the petroleum industry is desirable, both in Hydro and in Statoil.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e836	It is referred to an interview given to TV 2 by the Minister of Industry. There were two main points in the communication made by the Minister of Industry. One was satisfied that it could go against a Norwegian solution, that it was not a scheme where Statoil and Hydro collided with each other, and this led to the development of the elements that would result from it. The second Minister of Industry stated that once an agreement had been reached between Hydro and Statoil, and Statoil had a significant holding in Saga, the companies that wanted to take over the entire Saga would not be able to do so without taking into account that one of these actors, who has a large holding in Saga, had now entered into an alliance with Hydro. A reasonable reasoned opinion when it is seen in the context in which it was made and in the whole it formed together with other elements. So for the interview with Terje Johansen. Terje Johansen says two things. One is that he does not want the state to buy up again in Hydro. The position given to the Government by the Enterprise Committee, where the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party stand together, is an opportunity to make a purchase. I noticed that Kjell Opseth said that there was no obligation to make a purchase. You'll be able to evaluate it further. And I'm going to do that to the left, and I'm going to record that Terje Johansen has a point of view in that regard. With regard to the Saga acquisition, there is full agreement in the Left that the different companies should be able to make their offers on a commercial basis and that it is up to Saga’s owners to decide which offers they will accept.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e847	You may have to be careful to try to interpret the signals given in the clipped news broadcasts in the evening. But there is little doubt that the direction in both what Sponheim said, and what Lahnstein said in the same interview, was that one wanted a Norwegian solution. It contrasts with what Terje Johansen says in today's business today – and also in Dagsrevyen yesterday – that he wants a different solution. Otherwise, it is interesting to note that the representative Gunnar Kvassheim has not taken a decision as to whether it is desirable for the state to buy up again to over 50 pst. in Hydro. But when the Workers' Party and the Centres have agreed to give the Government a power to buy up again in Hydro, I guess that's because at least you don't want to rule out that possibility. I'm recording that Terje Johansen in today's Business today's interview believes that the state should sell off in Hydro. In other words, he's pointing out a completely different direction. While the center parties in the business committee talk about the state buying up, Terje Johansen talks about the state selling down. I agree with Terje Johansen. My question is: Is Gunnar Kvassheim – the parliamentary leader in the Left – also agree with Terje Johansen that it is desirable that the state sells itself down? Or does he think the state should buy itself up? When you give this authority to the government, I guess it's because you think it could be a desired development.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e856	Let me first say that my previous reply to Sanner must have been a little calming, because now it was not a question of what Sponheim said in the interview with TV 2, but of the direction of what he said. We might be able to get a further clarification if we had time for that. In the case of future ownership of Hydro, the state holding is 51 pst. have been very well justified. I do not want to dissociate myself from the possibility of going into the same solution even in the future in a situation where we have to take a stand for this as a result of the purchase of Saga. This should be a thorough and proper debate on in the Left, and that debate will also include our views on the future design of Statoil. It is therefore important and reasonable for the Government to be given the powers conferred on it by the Food Committee, so that one should have the opportunity to make purchases, and I will not exclude that at all today. But it could be that one at a closer review finds that, for example, a 44 pst holding. ensures that control of the company is sought. So it's a representative from the Left who thinks you should have a lower ownership. That is a point of view he should make in this debate. It is no more dramatic than that SV has had large-scale representatives who have seen differences in the Saga takeover. I record that in the Labour Party and the trade union movement there have been different views, and I have recorded earlier when Statoil has been discussing that former State Council Rechtedal and others in the Right have had different views when it came to the State and Statoil.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e871	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e874	If we make sense, oil and gas activities can bring us huge revenues for many years to come, thus helping to ensure both employment and well-being over the next century. But this means that we recognise that we are facing a new era, new conditions and new framework conditions for this industry. In the past, we made great findings on the Norwegian base that gave good profitability almost in any case. Before that, international companies had few investment alternatives other than the North Sea. Now new areas are opening up, such as the Caspian Sea, the former Soviet Union, west of Africa and subsequently also the Middle East, Iran and Iraq. Once upon a time, if we had an oil price of $15, we thought it was a low oil price. Now we think it's a very high oil price. All of this is just an example of the fact that the framework conditions for industry are completely different today than they were 10 and 20 years ago. We do not criticise the Government for not being able to do anything about those parts of the framework conditions for the Norwegian oil industry that no government can rule over, such as. the development of the oil price, the development of the international oil industry and the opening of other oil provinces. But the fact that there are a large part of the framework conditions we cannot control at home makes it all the more important that we do the right thing in relation to the framework conditions we can do something about, and the parts of the framework conditions that actually can affect Norwegian authorities. Our criticism of the Government is therefore about the fact that it understood the seriousness too late, and when it finally understood the seriousness, the measures were deficient and too weak. It is quite serious that this government, as late as last autumn's budgetary negotiations, were on not just one but several measures which had made a difficult situation for industry even more difficult. It proposed to increase the CO2 tax by 18 cents, from 89 to 107 cents per person. Sm3. That's 20 pst. increase. The asked cabinet question on the proposal, and it promoted it again, first in revised and then again last autumn. It proposed raising the corporate tax to 79 pst. That's just one percentage point, but when you just have a margin of 22 to live on initially, it's going to be an increase of 79 pst. However, it shall be marked. And it suggested lowering the limit of so-called simplified administration of development projects from 5 billion to 3 billion kroner. There are three proposals that all point in the wrong direction. All of them were promoted during the last year, and the government stood on them until the budgetary procedure last autumn. This shows that at least the seriousness of the situation was not understood in time, as employment in the supplier industry began to advance, and the oil industry faced problems. Now you have recognised the seriousness, it looks like – at least you're about to admit the seriousness. That is a step forward. Proposals are no longer being promoted for aggravating the framework conditions, but proposals are being made which are, at least, claimed and intended to help improve the framework conditions. The majority in the Storting wants to go clearly beyond what the Government has proposed. A majority are in favour of integrating the oil sector into the CO2 quota system. A faster cut in the investment tax is sought, and there are stronger wordings related to the future tax system, as well as to the desire to reduce the CO2 tax. There are some who say that it is impossible to reduce the CO2 tax in new fields. Well, the government is now getting back and documenting the documents it comes to the harvest, but in principle there is nothing else that has been done for the production fee for many years. It was removed for new extensions and retained on old extensions, and if it was possible to do so with the production fee, it is difficult to see that it is completely impossible to do the same with the CO2 tax. It's like things are very difficult as long as you're against them, and then it becomes a little bit more possible if you recognize that's the way to go. There is agreement in Stortinget that 100 million should be granted. kr to a technology fund. It was a proposal the Workers' Party launched last autumn. We put it into practice in a central government decision in February, and we naturally support – like the other parties – the granting of 100 million. kr to technology development in the oil sector. What is, on the other hand, disunity, and there is the Workers' Party with the Right and the Advance Party, is the financing of it. We've reacted to the fact that you're going beyond the usual budgetary procedures, that you're going to get 100 million. kr from the cash flow of the oil business prior to the entry of the money into the State budget, thereby undermining the whole idea of the petroleum fund, namely that it should make the use of the oil revenues visible. Here you hide a use of money. You take 100 million. kr into the Norwegian economy without including it into the State budget, and the cost is increased by 100 million. in the normal way of research and development, but there is no indication of the usual budgetary indicators such as expenditure growth and oil-corrected deficit. It's dangerous, because it undermines the very idea of the oil fund, to make it clear that we're using oil money, and how much oil money we're using, and it undermines the requirement for a specific decision to use money from the oil fund. The vote and debate today show that there is a slightly different majority for different parts of Norwegian oil and gas policy. Common to most of the majority is that the Workers' Party participates in them all. We participate with the Right and Advance Party in terms of views on the framework conditions for the oil industry. We also participate with the Right and Advance Party in terms of views on protecting the oil fund from undermining through new allocation systems. But we're participating with the center parties in the handling of e.g. the capital issue to Hydro in connection with the purchase of Saga, and we participate with the central parties on another important issue, namely the view on production regulation. The Labour Party introduced production regulation on a Norwegian base in 1986 and had it until 1989, in order to help get the price of oil up and at least more stable, and we have supported the centre government when it has had production regulation over the last two years. We also supported the last regulation of 200,000 barrels, i.e. Norwegian production should be reduced by 200,000 barrels compared to what it would otherwise have been. It is not that it itself contributes to changing the balance of the oil market, but we believe that a Norwegian contribution – as it was in the 1980s, and as it is today – contributes to increasing the discipline of OPEC, and that OPEC is now conducting significant production cuts, there is no doubt that it is helping to increase the price of oil. Norway is served, it is the Norwegian oil industry served, and therefore the Workers' Party has supported the Government in repeating an instrument that the Workers' Party has used in the past. The Party of Progress has been against, and the Right is at least very sceptical and partly opposed to the measures taken. So the issue of Hydro/Saga has been mentioned in the debate. Let me say a few words about it. One is that it is of course – and it has been clear all along – that it is Saga’s shareholders, owners, who decide whether and in case to whom they want to sell their shares. It is often the case that shareholders sell to those who offer the most, and therefore there is reason to believe that if there are no new bids, a good deal, perhaps a large majority of Saga's shareholders, will choose to sell for the bid that is now in and that is the highest. There are no politicians who can do something special – that is how the law and the stock law are. This determines the shareholders of Saga. It has also been important to stress that once Hydro and Statoil have submitted a bid, it has been based on what they think is commercially correct, and that is not something that politicians should have any idea of either. There are commercial assessments of those companies. So one is business assessments in Saga and who they want to sell to, and the other is business assessments in Hydro and Statoil about what kind of bids they want to deposit. So it's the company's judgements that are their domain. What is, on the other hand, the task of politicians is to clarify the political framework within which these decisions are to be taken, and it has therefore been necessary to clarify that it is no longer an independent objective, as has been the case in Norway for many years, that we should have three independent Norwegian oil environments. Regardless of who was going to buy Saga, it was necessary to clarify that three oil environments were no longer a necessary part of Norwegian oil policy – it was necessary for Elf or Hydro/Statoil to be awarded the bid. The second is that you have to give Statoil and Hydro, especially Statoil, a commercial freedom to city, for in the past there have been great restrictions on both Hydro and Statoil's ability to buy up in Saga. Most recently, Marit Arnstad did so last autumn, and the Syse government did so in connection with Hydro's purchase earlier in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e904	Petroleum activities in Norway remain very important for the country’s economy. The oil sector is a significant contributor to the income of the country. At the beginning of 1997, the country’s petroleum revenues were DKK 87 billion. That means that almost every five crowns of income to the country come from the petroleum activity. By the end of 1998, the petroleum fund had risen to about NOK 115 billion. Investments in oil and gas activities, excluding exploration, amounted to 37 p.m. in 1997. of total Norwegian exports. Over the past 25 years, Norway has built a large oil industry with strong environments of expertise within oil companies, the supplier industry, the research communities and the authorities. With regard to the framework conditions and the value creation on the Norwegian base, the fluctuations in the oil price have led to a need to tighten up companies and that the framework conditions should be improved if we are to avoid a continued free fall in investments. With current prices, cost levels and exceptional framework conditions there may be a risk that the development of new fields will almost stop. This will lead to major ring-fences for society. I'm thinking about the supplier industry here. We know that we have considerable resources of oil and gas, and it is important to have an ambition to use the resources and to continue a large and profitable business on a Norwegian base. However, we have to face up to the fact that we are at a crossroads that will fundamentally change the Norwegian oil industry. The oil industry needs to adapt to a possible sustained lower oil price than the one we're used to. The long-term challenges for Norway therefore consist primarily in facilitating conditions in order to minimise costs of use. In the context of a forward-looking regulatory regime, it is important to understand the coherence and interaction between the various elements. The Ministry’s proposal is to phase out the production fee over the period 2000-2003 and 2000-2008. The present value of the country's gross proceeds will be reduced, with liquidation up to 2008, from DKK 10.5 billion to DKK 7.1 billion and to SEK 5.1 billion with liquidation up to 2003. From the estimated tax position for the different companies, the present value of the country’s net proceeds will be reduced from DKK 3.1 billion to DKK 2.3 billion per year by a slowdown up to 2008, and to DKK 1.9 billion by a slowdown up to 2003. We must not forget that for oil and gas activities, the framework conditions are now completely different from those at the time of the notification of St. No 46 for 1997-98 was provided. The Progress Party will therefore, together with the Right and the Labour Party, propose a faster closure of the production levy in the context of the revised national budget. The Party considers that the situation in the petroleum industry, the manufacturing industry and other oil-related industries requires active and prompt action to prevent increased unemployment and loss of competence as a result of downskilling. It is therefore important that the petroleum sector, including the supplier industry, needs to undergo a transition period of cost cuts and structural changes. We believe that a new and more market-oriented petroleum policy must be aimed at ensuring diversity and ensuring competition on Norwegian soil. With greater diversity and competition on Norwegian soil, there is a need to reduce entry barriers for new entrants and to ensure a smoother trade in licence shares. The Progress Party recognises that internationalisation with increasing international competition, common competition rules and full capital mobility... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e922	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e925	It has now been over a year since the Government announced St. Announcement. No 46 for 1997-1998 on oil and gas policy. The notification was submitted at a time when a number of conditions were different from the one at present, not least in view of the very low oil prices that have marked the world market in the last year. Nevertheless, key challenges and objectives of the Government’s petroleum policy are well established. The sector contributes significantly to the country’s revenues, where every five kronor comes directly from the petroleum activity. It has given us the opportunity for a further development of the welfare state, while enormous reserves are built up through the oil fund to meet future major challenges, including. related to future government social security obligations. Oil and gas resources shall benefit both the generations of the day and tomorrow. I am therefore satisfied with the government's strong commitment to a long-term management of the petroleum industry. It is also an objective to make Norway less oil dependent and to maintain a strong and varied nutrient base in mainland Norway. At the same time, the Communication underlines the important role Norway has as a priority country in environmental issues, and that this should also be reconciled with being a major energy producer. The activities of the socket must therefore be seen in the context of the commitments undertaken by Norway under the Kyoto Agreement, and the oil sector, like all other sectors, must be involved and contribute to the achievement of our objectives, including: through the CO2 tax, as one of many measures that can contribute to ensuring the best possible environmental performance. The majority, on the other hand, want to rely on an allowance trading system that is not yet in place, and which is little known about what looks like, rather in terms of price. There has been a strong growth in oil production in recent years. The increase is the result of long-standing decisions. There is reason to argue that in recent years we have been at an unnaturally high level that hardly matches a long-term resource management. A restrictive approach to new development projects and concessions is likely to be the main means of influencing the level of activity. Since the Government provided the oil and gas message, the picture has changed dramatically in important areas. Not least, the oil price has partly declined significantly and has affected both the Norwegian economy and the activity on the base. Investments have fallen sharply, and the number of new projects started has been reduced several times. Such a steep fall in activity has also had negative effects on other activities, not least in relation to the supplier and yard industries. The fall in activity level was not unexpected. Already in 1993, the government presented forecasts of Harlem Brundtland which showed a significant decrease in the base towards the end of this decade. Instead of measures that could meet these forecasts, the bulk of the population turned up and increased the height of the fall. Everyone who made up this majority must be present today and bear responsibility for it. Paradoxically, however, the Workers' Party proposed, in order to meet the predictions they themselves made, to reduce the yard support from 9 pst. for 7.5 pst. for the 1998 budget. However, the government took seriously the consequences of the problems that low oil prices and reduced activity levels caused, as a consequence, St.meld. No 37 for 1998-99, with proposals for measures to improve the situation of companies and the shipbuilding industry. It is therefore proposed in the 1999 budget to strengthen project-oriented technological development on the continental shelf as a contribution to securing new, profitable investments in oil and gas activities in the short term. At the same time, the Government proposes a gradual phasing-out of the production levy and notes that the national budget for 2000 will return to concrete phasing-out plans for the implementation of the reduction. The Government also focuses on measures to improve resource utilisation, by strengthening efforts to internationalise the petroleum industry and by establishing concrete long-term plans, for example through rolling five-year plans for concession rounds and other allocations. Thus, there is no reason to argue that the Government is not doing anything to meet the difficult situation and uncertainty that is now linked to the petroleum industry and the supplier industry, not least in the light of instability and unpredictable price levels in the oil and gas markets. Finally, the low oil prices we have experienced in the last year led the Government to decide to reduce the extraction on the base in order to make a Norwegian contribution to reducing the oil surplus on the world market and at the few higher prices as a result. In an interaction with other oil producers, not least OPEC, this proved to be a timely tool. Despite a lot of turbulence in advance, the government agreed to these production regulations, and in this way the debate back then much reminds us of the debate we have been through today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e953	Today we are discussing the framework conditions for one of the most important industries in Norway, perhaps the most important. Norwegian oil history has our specks with a triumphant father. In a relatively short time, Norwegian oil company and Norwegian supplier industry have become world-lording in several areas. Norwegian oil history is also the story of a very successful industrial policy. Over the course of 30 years, a whole new industry has been doing very well on an international scale. The Labour Party is taking on a large part of the era, but of course it is also responsible for the policies that have been pursued in this area for the past 30 years. But if anything has been successful for 30 years, it may not be as successful in the coming 30s. The record low oil price last autumn and other international factors put a stop to the whole of the Norwegian oil environment and led to a sudden halt to initial investment. Order drying for the supplier industry was the result. It's probably right to say that today we're at a crossroads, and that we have to make some choices for decades to come. This seems to be a major deal, both in the industry and in the political environment. But unfortunately, it doesn't seem that everyone has the same hurry. The situation of many suppliers along our coast is acute. Both cancellation notices and cancellations have been issued. However, in other workshops where there is too much work space, the situation is far from obvious. The engineers have no new business to count on and the company has no new business to compete over. Therefore, measures are urgently needed to reverse this trend. I understand that major issues such as ownership, licensing, etc. must be improved before a final decision can be taken. But we can't push everything around, as I have the impression that the government party is doing too much. We all know that this is so far from the end of the Norwegian oil and gas wealth. We also know that there will be large investments on the Norwegian base. As it looks, this is unfortunately a little ahead of time. If we are not able to put in place actions that will support any of these, we may risk deleting the Norwegian supplier industry on the day when new jobs are available. To use an expression that will probably understand a central government council, this is about the cow dying while the grass grows. We have today a government that went to elections and that in its government statement said they would have a lower activity in this industry. Even if I want to give the government the credit or debt for the situation we've come to today, one must say that the goal has been achieved in many ways, and I expect the government to take this with them when they're going to create a show-off list of what they've earned in the years of government. Anyone who waits for something good does not wait for it, but those who wait for the package of measures in the revised national budget are unfortunately waiting for it. Both Prime Minister Bondevik and State Council Arnstad warned early in our concrete action to improve the situation. Such measures should be identified in the context of revision. I and many with me were both surprised and disappointed when the revision was finally carried out. Promises of concrete action and were easily broken. Thousands of members of the yard industry went to action, not in an edited political game, as some have said, but in a real commitment to their own business, for their own jobs and for their own future. Several speakers have said that the actions have made an impression. It's positive. Hopefully, this impression will help to secure the jobs of many of the people who acted. Today, and not least on Friday, Stortinget will take decisions to improve the framework for oil production on Norwegian soil. Driving will be more profitable and future investment will yield better. The industry has made demands on the political environment. Politicians have far-reaching support for these requirements. Now it's the oil company's turn. In my view, the oil companies and the supplier industry depend entirely on each other. In the case of large investments in a few years' time, it is important that the supply industry is there. Therefore, the oil companies must support a certain activity, so that the yard industry can also live in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e970	Just a few edge remarks, initially, to a theme that's been up several times. It is true that the Right with the Advance Party was forced to vote for the CO2 tax at some point. It was a proposal we were against, which we are against and which was very little adapted to the situation, not to talk about how little forward-looking it was. But that's exactly what we did because we didn't choose to trap the government, because we thought the option was worse. But I have to say that the longer the government is doing this, the more they seem to be working to convince us that we were wrong. There are new rounds about this every year, not to say at least once a year. In the case of the representative Dale and several of the representatives from the centre parties, it seems that one now seems in a way that the oil industry and the bulk of the population are getting what they have been given – that what is happening now shows the perfectionism of the market, to use an expression from literature. Such perfectionisms exist. That's why we, among other things. has some competition rules and some other rules. But I must say that the example is very poorly chosen. If you really want to find an area that is governed by political decisions, not just framework decisions, but individual decisions, yes, where the relationship between individual decisions in companies and government decisions is actually difficult to see, it is the oil sector. This is the area of the competitive sector that is the most policy-driven of all areas – I stress then the ‘competitive sector’. I am aware that we have, among other things, agriculture, but not to the same extent subject to competition, to say the least. Here's an area where the companies really have to have concession in order to work. Administrations choose which companies cooperate on how much and what it costs, awarding at the top of all operator responsibilities and approving development plans. So this is a politician-ridden market. So then to talk about an investment tree that was uncontrolled is to sit completely on the side. Everything has been controlled, everything has been adopted, and that's the result you're now seeing. Now I want to add that regardless of regulation or non-regulation, I think this is a market that will go up and down. But what we're now discussing is not whether we're going to avoid a decline, but whether we're going to slow down the fall. I'm recording that the government is meeting it with a passive, a waiting, and seeing and investigating attitude. It could be an expensive phase. But we notice what's happening. The problem is not just that we are facing a short-term fall, which is now fixed with the oil price, but we are facing longer-term problems. And it's the long-term problems that actually call for reasonably fast solutions, because others don't investigate but act. For this reason, it is important that Norway is not reclassified in an investigation phase. It is a good thing that not all countries are guided by the political pace of Norwegian NOU investigations, hearings, political decisions and lack of consensus which unfortunately force us to. We now see a hugely rapid restructuring of the international oil industry, and we see that the gas market, on which Norway is very dependent, also changes very, very quickly. The tendency for vertical integration, that is, to gain power in downstream activities, is such that it challenges Norwegian competence, challenges Norwegian hegemony in a number of areas, and we can risk if companies do not have sufficient freedom, that we are permanently outside large parts of the markets. In my view, that is the greatest challenge we face. Paradoxically, in Norwegian oil policy we have had the most debate on what means the least – at least both economically and in terms of governance. We've had the most debate about ownership. If you look at where the state's income comes from, it's less of all through dividends. It's marginal what you get. Of course, you get something by building values in companies, but at least you get dividends. What really is the large amounts are taxes and dividends from HOUSE — especially taxes. We have had little debate on that, but most of all, as I said, on what means least, also in political terms. The reality is that today the EEA Agreement does not govern, but after a trend which has been quite consistent in Norwegian policy. You no longer rule through companies, but through framework conditions. The ownership really means very little for the management of Norwegian oil policy. Finally, I just want to point out that we are coming back to this on Friday in a debate on the revision. The attitude is given and available, but we get to take the debate. I just want to join the description that, among other things. The representative, Stoltenberg, gave: In the revision, a majority – the Right, the Advance Party and the Workers’ Party – end up to a structure that goes further and is more concrete in terms of improving the framework conditions than the government’s structure. Even it doesn't go far enough, but it's a lot better than the government's arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e985	The government's policy objectives for petroleum can be summarised in the concepts of well-being, the environment and long-term. These objectives are closely linked and form the basis of the petroleum policy. St.meld. No 46 for 1997-98 mentions several aspects of petroleum policy. I have noticed that a majority of the committee has joined the broad lines of the policy described in that communication. However, the situation in the industry has changed significantly since the Government promoted St.meld. No 46 on 28 May 1998. The Government therefore decided to promote an additional notification until 10 May 1999. During the last half of 1998 and the first half of 1999, a period of very low oil prices has been experienced. History shows that the oil price fluctuates greatly and that it is difficult to predict the price evolution of crude oil with a high degree of accuracy. Low oil prices seem to have altered the willingness of operators to take risks in relation to new oil and gas projects. As a result, the demands made by companies on the robustness of new projects, including sustained low oil prices, have increased. The main challenge on Norwegian continental shelf is that the level of costs is too high in relation to the price evolution of oil companies that underpins their decisions on further operation, development of new fields and exploration. It is therefore necessary to reduce costs in order to obtain the resources on the Norwegian continental shelf in a cost-effective way, thereby laying the basis for new activity, employment and state revenues. In the big message planned to be submitted in spring 2000, the Government proposes a more detailed assessment of the management system, the image of the actor and the state participation on the continental shelf. In the following more demarcated areas, the Government is already proposing measures to facilitate socio-economic better decision-making in the petroleum industry: The government is proposing to grant 100 million. kr in the 1999 budget to strengthen project-oriented technology development on the continental shelf. The rate of resolution will vary from field to field. In the national budget for 2000, the government will return to concrete decommissioning plans for the fields concerned. – I have noticed the Committee’s desire to move forward as quickly as possible, and I agree to this.For the direct state participation, the Danish Government, in new permits in the North Sea, lays down the main rules for such participation and contributes to increased predictability in policy.In order to ensure good decisions in industry and thus high value creation, the Government has also established greater predictability in the policy of extending extraction permits.In order to strengthen its efforts to internationalise the Norwegian petroleum industry, the Government proposes to grant an additional 2 million. In order to improve the efficiency of exploration activities, the Government proposes to establish concrete long-term plans. This will be presented in the petroleum notification, which is planned for Spring 2000 Stortinget. The proposed package of measures, together with the main issues that the Government will pursue towards the 2000 notification of petroleum, is well adapted to the challenges facing the industry. I have noticed the desire of the majority of the committee to assess how the CO2 tax can be reduced until the offshore sector is included in the quota system. The majority of the Committee would like to see such an evaluation in the budget for the year 2000. This, of course, will be followed up by the Government. I have also noticed the desire of the majority of the committee to initiate an investigation into the revision of the petroleum tax and to make proposals for changes to the Storting during the year 2000. Such work will be undertaken. The opposition criticises the Government that the proposed measures are not sufficient to meet the needs for rapid action in the industry. The government doesn't consider it that way. I find it difficult to see how the opposition can concentrate on concrete measures of importance that can contribute to significantly increased activity in the short term.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1032	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1035	I think it is very gratifying that the government has now changed its view of the oil and gas business compared to what was the government's opinion last year. A number of proposals were made to exacerbate the framework conditions. They stood on them long after oil prices had begun to fall, and they also asked cabinet questions after oil prices had started falling. Now you are concerned about saying that you want to improve the framework conditions, and that is a clear step forward. We believe that the measures are inadequate, but we are pleased that they have turned around, at least the direction has changed. It's better than nothing. My first question is therefore: does the government now realize that the proposals were wrong not only for CO2 tax, but also for company tax and simplified treatment, which they were on last autumn, since they now promote proposals in the opposite direction? One of the suggestions that we're all getting together on is the 100 million. kr to technology development. It is a good proposal, and it has been launched earlier, but now it has a majority. That's very good. What is not so good is that the government has found it necessary to change the law on the kerosene fund in order to manage this money. Reference is made to the fact that in the past, money has been spent on the cost of landfilling. Well, depositing, scrapping platforms, we believe that we are part of the necessary costs associated with the business itself, and it has always been the intention that such costs should be covered directly from the cash flow of the oil business. On the other hand, it has been intended that all other revenues should be brought directly into the oil fund, so that any use of oil revenue should be made visible, not because oil money should never be used, but because it should be understood that these revenues are something other than ordinary revenues. They're part of our legacy silver. We're taking down one asset, oil in the ground, to build another, money in the bank. So you kind of go in and take the money before they get into the oil fund and hide it in the budget. The question is whether you are really proud of the way you run budgeting, undermining the whole point of the oil fund.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1044	Let me first turn to the question of whether we are happy that we have been able to change this oil policy, saying that if we had had had a greater impact on our somewhat lower level of ambition in terms of oil extraction in the past, we would have released the steep fall we now see. So I'm sorry that we haven't had a majority in the past to take oil out a little bit slower, something over time, to have the long-termity that is now one of the main goals of the government, long-termity also in the activity and investment. When such changes have now taken place, it shows the vulnerability of this industry and the importance of being willing to change in a new era. I think we can agree on that quickly. And it's interesting to see what we're now adding up in the context of the message coming in spring 2000. I think there is a need for some changes here, just to ensure what are our objectives: well-being, environment and long-term management of what is our heritage, our national wealth. So I'll answer the last question, if I'm proud that we suggested that the 100 million. kr for technology development should go from the direct flow to the oil fund and in the low tide. I have to say that I think it was very well justified. But now it's not like Stoltenberg said, that it's the government that's changing the law. It's the Storting that does it. I understand that there is no majority to use some of this stream to focus on innovation and technology development to take care of the seed in this industry. But it is also the case that Stoltenberg in its time took some money here – for another purpose, that is correct. [[President clubs]] But the claim that this has been tried has been hidden
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1053	The President would point out that the word 'doubt' is not a parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1056	The progress party is in favour of increased activity on Norwegian pedestal. A solution where Hydro and Statoil are allowed to buy Saga will lead to increased state ownership in the oil environment. I would like to point out that the direct and indirect ownership of the state in the Norwegian oil and gas business is now 80 pst. Why does the Government want to reduce the diversity of Norwegian soil, which in turn will lead to increased state ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1061	It is not surprising that there are different views between the Progress Party and the Government on oil policy issues. The representative addresses questions related to Saga and what has happened to Saga. Let me stress that it has been on a purely commercial basis that those who have offered Saga have done so. And it is on a commercial basis that the owners of Saga say yes or no to the offers that have been made. I would therefore like to point out that it is important for us as owners that we act neatly in such a context, also because we are both the concession provider and the supervisor in the sector. As for the question of reducing diversity, because it now seems that Hydro and Statoil take over Saga, I'm not worried about it. I think we'll see great opportunities for development on Norwegian pedestal, and that foreigners are going to come into many areas. For my part, I don't hide – I realize it's bad to have meant it, but I mean to have expressed it earlier – that I would be happy if there was a Norwegian solution, that is, if Saga's owners say yes to a Norwegian solution, which is now the case, because I believe that Saga has been given access to concessions that have great values in itself for many years, just to strengthen the Third Norwegian Environment, and I believe that these values should be, and secured, on Norwegian hands – that's good. But we have not intervened in any area of the process that has been here, except, as Jens Stoltenberg referred to, that the ownership restriction that was known to have been imposed on Statoil in connection with Saga was lifted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1071	The centre batches have been selected on their own for the treatment of this oil notification. Government lots are on collision courses with the bulk of the population both in terms of the situation description and in terms of the choice of instruments. In many areas, this would not be a problem. But for the petroleum industry, lack of leadership is a problem. We are in a time gap where the strategic choices will be of great importance. At the same time, we have a situation where the Government is in a minority in terms of policy choices. Does the Council of State see that there can be a problem when there is a lack of leadership and government as said in collision courses with the majority of the population? Governments often have difficulties concealing their enthusiasm when the majority of population adopts increased appropriations or improved framework conditions within their sector. This statement refers to proposals that will be promoted in the context of the revised national budget, such as: will result in the offshore sector being included in the future quota system. This is a proposal that the Minister for the Environment has strongly warned against. At the same time, the Stortinget decides on Friday to oblige the Government to submit proposals on how to reduce the CO2 tax until the autumn. My question is whether the Council of State is pleased with the improved framework conditions which the majority of the population provides for the oil and gas activities or whether the Council of State sees it as a problem that, following the decision of the majority of the population, the petroleum activity will have improved framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1080	I have to say that I do not recognize myself in the description that Jan Tore Sanner now gives. I have studied the settings and compared them with the statements that have been made, and I must respectfully say that the noise level that the majority of the majority in Stortinget agreed to in relation to the content of the supplementary message has become very small again. When it comes to collision courses here, I can see nothing but that you have a somewhat different pace compared to the production fee, but we will come back to that. I'm going to go in to get it reduced as quickly as possible. With regard to the CO2 tax, I cannot see that there is an established majority for anything. We have also said that we should look at it. For the allowance system and for the offshore area to enter it, it is a premise from the majority that the national allowance system should be neutral. This means that, where appropriate, costs from the oil and petroleum industries will be charged to other industries. I am not sure if it is that good, but we will come back to that and look at it, of course, in line with what is in the setting. As for Jan Tore Sanner's description of solitude and lack of leadership, I totally disagree with it. I think we've been shown here how the Storing cracks in many questions, but we're doing well to gather around the main steps ahead. It is my firm belief that during the processing of the communication coming to spring, which will really address the major strategic issues of future oil and gas production in Norway, we need to establish the widest possible majority. I feel quite sure that at least the centre parties and the Workers' Party – if not the Right, but I hope for as broad a majority as possible – will be able to find broad solutions in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1091	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1094	We now see a dramatic change in the petroleum sector. Investments in the socket will fall sharply. Therefore, it is important to help mitigate the steep fall in the level of activity that comes, and at the same time strengthen the basis for long-term resource management. In the last year, all forecasts have indicated that there will be many leave and cancellations before this sector. In Hordaland, we've already marked this strongly. We have had a lot of activity in relation to the petroleum sector and in addition many added to the yard industry, which also has empty order books. When so many workers went to Oslo to say so, it wasn't to be disgusting to the Government. No, it was because they were seriously afraid for the future, for their work, for their house and home and for their security. I would like to stress that the government had given them the hope that it would come with changing framework conditions in the big message that came in May. I myself have been in many debates where representatives of the Government have promised it. It is no wonder that the breakup was great when they felt that there were almost no new proposals. The majority, the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party, therefore had to take responsibility, and we propose, among other things. the whole offshore sector shall be included in the CO2 allowance system and the production charge shall be reduced as early as this year. In addition, we are asking for an allocation for the revision of the petroleum tax during the next year, in addition to some other proposals. Rise from the Christian People's Party has made it a point that there is no suggestion in the matter today. A little honest game it must be: the message is being discussed today; the proposals come Friday in connection with the revised national budget; it knows Rise very well. If there is no difference between the Government's proposals for framework conditions and the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party's comments, yes, then I do not understand why the government party does not join these comments. A matter for which I shall commend the Government is the Technology Fund. One hundred million. In order to strengthen project-oriented technology development on the pedestal to ensure profitable development is still important and correct. When it comes to the Technology Fund, I will address a matter that I am asking the Council of State to respond to: A project for the production of bioproteins from gas has been launched on the Tent Credits. Test production for fish and animal feed production is under way. With the use of natural gas in this way, solutions based on known technologies are not lightweight. Knowledge-based, high-tech manufacturing processes are being developed, based on research at international level and in close cooperation between the research environment and industry. Competence must be built in Norway, and we must be concerned about ensuring that the value creation takes place here. The University of Bergen has taken the initiative of a comprehensive research programme in this respect. They have cooperated with the US Department of Energy. Norwegian Governing Authorities are required to follow up such an initiative. I mean, it's within the 100-million-dollar limits. kr contained in the new Technology Fund must be provided with funding for precisely this type of project, which can provide value creation here in Norway. As far as the activity of the petroleum sector is concerned, the development decisions are decisive for the nature of the activity. For this reason, I would like to repeat what has been said earlier today, that from 1986 until 1997, the Christian People's Party has been present in all development decisions with the exception of one, Norne, where the location of the base business was the most important argument for a postponement. When the Council of State just now said that if the majority in the Storting had done the same thing as 'we' will, and got a reduced activity, then I'm actually fooling at the council of state we're with, because here there's a broad majority, including the Christian People's Party, who have gone in for the expansion decisions that have given activity in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1111	For the past 25 years, Norway has built a large oil industry with strong environments of expertise within oil companies, the supplier industry and the research communities and the authorities. And this competence is the most important industrial cluster in the Norwegian economy. In order to further develop and maintain it, the framework conditions are of great importance for the assessment of attractiveness. The question to be asked is whether the Norwegian tax rules have been adapted to the other prerequisites for operating oil on a commercial basis. As a known priority, companies must be able to choose areas with different tax regimes between investment opportunities in different regions. I am very pleased that someone has now come through to ask the government to investigate the entire petroleum tax system and come back with proposals for changes during the course of 2000. It is important that this industry has long-termity and predictability. Then we must also be able to give clear signals as to what they have to do, what framework conditions they have – a decision today will not yield harvests until eight to ten years. Furthermore, there is the question of this famous CO2 tax. Here I would like to remind you that I think we have to try to avoid pursuing a costly symbolism policy that is exacerbating competition without improving the environment. In this context, it is necessary to develop objectives and instruments that make it attractive for Norwegian industry to achieve emission reductions. Norwegian cap is probably the most expensive place to do CO2 reductions. It is therefore important to facilitate the active participation of Norwegian industry and business in climate action schemes, and it is important to integrate climate policy instruments. I would like to recall the important pass from the majority – against the will of the government parties – to ask the Government of the State budget for the year 2000 to present proposals on how to reduce the CO2 tax until the offshore sector is included in the quota system, including the possibility to differentiate between old and new fields with the aim of stimulating increased field development. It's a very important decision we're making, and it's a very important environmental policy course. For Stortinget, who sets the framework conditions for this industry, it is important that we conduct a climate policy that people understand. It must not be a climate policy that costs society and businesses a lot, but that brings little environmental benefits. Such a policy will lead to major protests, and will undermine the whole effort to solve the climate problem. So finally, some comments on the buying-in rounds with both national and international companies and the uncertainty they have created, especially for the organisations and employees in Saga. The concession terms of the various companies have been determined here in Stortinget. In the context of the concession terms and conditions for, inter alia: The Snorre extension was decided that the operating organisation would be located in Stavanger and Florø. What Stortinget has decided, I take as a matter of course, also stand firm for the new owners of the companies that this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1122	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1125	A large number of speakers have stressed the importance of the oil industry for the Norwegian economy. The case-rapporteur was in his introduction, among other things. to what this industry represents in terms of the definition of Norway’s national wealth, and points, inter alia. that the so-called weight of the Norwegian national wealth was almost halved over a one-year period. It says a little bit about what kind of challenges we have to deal with. That is why it is rather disappointing to record what the Government has put forward in this debate, and it is in my opinion quite a ghastly contrast to the same Council of State, the Minister of Oil – not exactly the same person – said at the Petroleumsforenings Seminar in Sandefjord, where she quite clearly stated that the Government would make concrete proposals to the Stortinget in the revised national budget. We have seen that the oil price has crept up along the way, and therefore the matter is not so hot, and it is not as topical to take the necessary measures as it should be. This is not the way this industry, which is in a situation where you have to compete with activity on a completely different continent, in completely different countries, can live. This industry, as has been said, must then have competitive framework conditions, which are responsible for the weight of its national wealth in Norway. I would also like to express considerable disappointment when I see that the Right Party and the Advance Party stand alone in their proposal to ask the Government to open up group requests in the Norwegian Sea. I would strongly urge both the Council of State and, not least, the Workers' Party to take this into account in the further work of this region which is likely to appear in a few years' time as Norway's new, large, heavy oil region. In this very special water you find yourself in, you have to have conditions that allow you to dry up on huge investments – it goes on exploration, and maybe not least extraction to a greater extent, when we get that far. There is development costs in a field that cannot be compared to any other field in Norway, and which is so technologically challenging that everything you can put in the basket is needed to get the companies together to develop the image in the Norwegian Sea. So two ratios finally. One is: I ask the Council of State to record the environmental policy cooperation between the municipality of Nordland and the Ministry of Oil, Fish, Environment in this highly sensitive area of fisheries. And the second is, I assume that the Council of State has noticed what the majority parties have said about the Barents Sea and the expected development work around the Snow White field.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1136	It is easy to see at the end of this debate that there are few differences in the view of the problems facing the petroleum sector – the differences are reflected in proposals for solutions to the problems. The government has proposed 100 million. SEK for research, 2 million. to internationalisation, the reduction of shares in the North Sea and plans for the phasing-out of the production levy in the 2000 budget. These are the proposals the Government believes should help to counteract a ‘bridly fall in activity level’ as expressed in the Communication. The government parties also say that the government can help to reduce problems when they occur, and my question is, Will they, or won't they? The Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right's proposal are a blueprint of the Government's proposal, said Rise in a few line changes this morning. I assume, like Frøiland, that he has read the setting – but there is a lot of evidence that he has not actually done it! And if the government parties consider this to be a blue copy of their own proposals, they should vote well in the context of the revised national budget by Friday for the proposal to include the entire offshore sector in the quota system, the proposal to reduce the CO2 tax and the proposal for an investigation for revision of the petroleum tax. The representative of the Christian People's Party Lars Rise uses himself, as said, in these line changes of the technique "attack is the best defense". Going back in the history of Bratteli, Willoch and Gro Harlem Brundtland in order to be able to substantiate my own arguments, I will not comment on anything more here, but to accuse the Workers' Party and the Right of an excessive investment tempo and even to waive any responsibility for the policy that has been pursued, when he should know that the Christian People's Party has participated in the vast majority of the expansions of new fields, there is something one should ask a serious question about. I find it sad that the Christian People's Party, at Lars Rise, does not know its own story, it is sad that he has had great problems reading within the position he has been in, and it is sad that he must attack other people in this room – and people who have left this room many years ago – instead of taking responsibility for their own actions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1151	I don't have much need to go into any polemics with Aud Blattmann regarding the introduction to Lars Rise, but I record at the bottom of the debate that there is a relatively large consensus on the main lines of oil and gas policy. I also believe that when we try to present the various measures of the Government and of the opposition parties as dramaticly different and different from each other, it is a description that I do not think is the basis for. However, there have been many from the Workers' Party who have stated that government parties should join the turns and join the majority, among others. based on the description I now gave. To say that we don't have much need to join this, because we feel that it's actually the government that's come up with the essential choices in oil and gas policy. And what you're really left with after the rounds of the opposition today is the old saying that you're protesting against the whole world, but you're on your way. This illustrates that we are pleased that the Government has received the approval of the Storting in terms of key elements of oil and gas policy. So to the Workers' Party representatives, again, who have stressed that the Government does not understand. The government doesn't understand, so we understand it. The government does not take responsibility, so the opposition takes responsibility – as Ranveig Frøiland stated. If this had been a line change, it could have been tempting to ask the question: When one clearly knew that this case would come — relatively dramatic, because it has been stated in the 1993 Communication by the Labour Party Government itself — how in the world it can be related that in fact, as late as 1997 it entered in order to reduce the competitiveness of the shipbuilding industry, precisely by reducing the yard support from 9 pst. for 7.5 pst.? At that time it was known that we would have a dramatic, steep fall in activity. It was the government of Jagland that proposed to reduce from 9 p.m. in the 1998 budget. to 7,5 pst., and the Bondevik government increased it by a further 0,5 pst., to 7 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1162	It has been a nice debate, but a bit tame – we will have the proper debate on what is going on in the oil sector on Friday in the context of the revised national budget. I have some questions – and I see the minister is still here, so I wish the minister could answer them. One is that the right is in favour of, as mentioned here before, and as I myself mentioned in a line change, a group allocation in the Norwegian Sea. This will make it more interesting for more companies to apply to get into this area. It will save companies a lot of money, and it will not cost the Norwegian state anything further. So here's what it's all about to put the conditions right so it gets interesting to go in and join the Norwegian Sea. We have the possibility of grouping in the North Sea, so there's nothing else we can do but transfer this to the Norwegian Sea. It could therefore be good to hear the Minister's reply as to why the Government cannot support such a scheme. It is also a bit interesting to hear the Minister say that the government will look at the possibilities for relief for the industry – that is, I think it was said, including the CO2 tax. It might be interesting if the government was a little led was here and joined a broad majority, so that we could get a relief for the industry now. It's now that they need this relief, that's now they need to see the light in the tunnel that we can't get to give them. I'm sorry. Nor does it seem that we are really getting on with it in the context of the revised budget. We give them relief in the production fee, or we remove it, but nothing is said about the CO2 tax. In the end, like the representative Tore Nordtun, I assume that Snorre's operating organisation is firm where it has been given a concession to lie.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1173	It was too tempting to answer the representative who in a way asked me a question about the yard support. It's not part of what we're discussing today, although some of our shipyards obviously have large orders from the petroleum sector and are located in the same areas that are now going to have great unemployment due to both the situation in the yard and the situation in the petroleum sector. When the government of Jagland proposed to reduce interest subsidies in 1997, all the order books were full. But we need to be able to turn around and do what is necessary if the situation changes. And the situation changed a lot, so in the spring of 1998, the Labour Party said that it was wrong what we did, because now the situation has changed so that we have to get interest subsidies back at the same level as they do in Europe. So the government said no, we didn't get multiples for it. We gave it up again last year in connection with the budget. So the government came back in the spring and said now we have to do it. And the Labour Party supports it. There's not much going on to discuss the snow as falling last year and in the past. But it's necessary to turn around when it's necessary to make changes, and that's actually what we're asking for now, even when it's about the petroleum sector, because now the situation in that industry is so that one needs to do something quickly. One cannot wait until the next year. That is why we have proposed the changes we have made to the revised national budget, which we are going to vote on Friday. When it comes to the shipbuilding industry, I am pleased that the Workers' Party has been joined by the Centre Party, even in relation to the revised budget, to require the construction of ferries, so that the yard has more to do. I am all the more disappointed that one will not go in with fresh resources to build "G.O. Sars’» But it's going to start with less funds, and I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1183	I would like to thank you for the debate. I think it is good to note that there is a large majority, yes, full support for all the proposals that the Government has made, and there are a lot of them. In some areas, someone here will go a little bit further. It is the case that the Government also wants to assess the CO2 tax, but we want to see it in relation to the cancellation of the Quota Committee. As far as the production fee is concerned, I believe that we should be able to wind it up quickly, but we want some more time to look at this in relation to the national budget. Otherwise, I actually asked for the word to answer a question about a bioprotein project based on natural gas on the Tent Goods that Ranveig Frøiland had for me. The question was whether the money we now allocate to project-oriented technology development can be used for this project, which is very demanding, and which has large and important perspectives. Project-oriented technology development has come a long way in finding guidelines, and the composition of governance has been discussed with the Research Council. In order to ensure that cost-effective technologies are applied in relation to specific needs in specific fields, attention has been paid to involving users in this work. We hope that there may also be projects here that can be co-financed. I don't know this project in concrete terms, but I'm sure that if this is as good a project as Frøiland stated, it might be relevant in this context. Otherwise, I would like to refer to what the Committee has unanimously said, that it is important that the future structure of Norwegian oil and gas activities be reviewed. This applies, inter alia, to: the management of the country's direct financial involvement, SAD, and the ownership of Statoil. I'm glad you end up here with the extra 15 million. kr which has been proposed for further investigation in this respect, because this is really about major and important things for the nation to come. It is my belief that, first of all, we need to spend enough time, that we need to ensure the best possible basis for decision-making, and that we also need to work on these issues so that we can ensure the widest possible integration of a future policy on oil and gas for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1192	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1-4.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1206	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1217	The Communication presents a comprehensive national strategy for assessment and quality development. The plan covers both primary and secondary education. The Communication notes that it is difficult to identify unique links between different framework factors and the learning outcomes of students. According to the Council of State, the teacher seems to have the most say in learning outcomes. In the second part of the Communication, the Ministry presents a national strategy for the assessment and quality development of primary and secondary education. Assessment and development work shall provide better training and contribute to the development of schools/teaching enterprises as learning institutions. The weight lies in knowledge acquisition and learning processes. The local assessment work is based on the government model of the support pillar of the national strategy. Reporting/documentation needs to be made more appropriate so that unnecessary paperwork can be avoided. In cooperation with, inter alia: In 1999, the Central Association of Municipalities and Teachers' Organisations will launch a broad development project in higher education and further invite cooperation on their own R & D activities in primary school. The government wants to counteract increased testing pressure at school and that test results are used to rank schools. Tasks and tests shall primarily have a learning function. The government will, among other things, bet on alternative assessment and test forms, evaluation without grades at the youth level based on the test paragraph of the Training Act and diagnostic screening tests. Educational and professional research focusing on the classroom perspective shall also be initiated. As is evident with great clarity, there is not much that the Committee has been able to agree on, but some important points are. The Committee is of the opinion that the notification is based on the premise of equivalent training for all children irrespective of their parent’s economy, place of residence, ethnic origin and religion. In the opinion of the Committee, the concept of equivalent training must mean that all children have equal opportunities to develop according to their own abilities, level of development and needs. The training shall be based on and adapted to the student himself. In addition, training shall be characterised by individual adaptation with a significant room for local diversity. On the basis of this principle and the treatment of St.meld. No 47 for 1995-96, About student assessment, school-based assessment and national assessment system, a decision was taken requesting a notification of a national assessment system. So it doesn't seem to be fulfilled. We've read in the newspapers the last time about bullying. Studies have been carried out on who is bullying, and, of all things, the data provided may indicate that there is a growing number of teachers who are bullying. Let me quote briefly a statement from the Evening Post on Saturday, June 5, this year, where a teacher is referred to: "I'm not saying that you're the stupidest class I've been away in my 35 years as a teacher, but you're clearly the least intellectual..." This teacher is described as ‘very good and knowledgeable, but malicious’. If we had put this comment into a different statement, for example. This house, I'm sure I know who I was thinking about first and foremost. There's only one difference, a very important difference, and it's that he's been given a very good assignment, in my opinion, to bring such characteristics into the open forum. In addition, we all know that the standard of teachers cannot be said to be optimal in either primary or secondary school. Norway's leading bully expert, Dan Å. Olweus, professor of psychology at the University of Bergen, believes that teacher bullying needs to be investigated in a factual and impartial manner. He has been researching the bullying phenomenon for many years, and on the basis of the first scientific study carried out on this topic in 1996 by Professor Olweus, he says that estimates show that the total number of children in Norwegian primary school who are exposed to teacher harassment during a school semester will be around 6,300 students. Racket or negative behaviour of students cannot be considered as a cause of teacher bullying. He divides the teachers who have undesirable behaviour into three groups: 1. teachers who have major personal problems with their professional role2. teachers who may have had an adverse contrast with one or more class pupils3. teachers who are too hard pressed by prolonged stress and burnout There must be very strict criteria, Olweus continues, in relation to credibility to characterize a teacher as a bully. A student shall be plagued by a teacher repeatedly and over time. In view of, inter alia: This, in addition to an infinite number of cases of student violence, now the last in Oslo last week, can no longer be responsible authorities sitting on the fence waiting for better times and nice weather. School lows seem to increase dramatically rather than improve significantly. The progress party is aware that some schools where bullying has been a problem seem to have achieved good results, and we are very pleased about that. However, bullying as an expression of a learning environment and bullying in general seems to be as contagious as the Black Death, and therefore action must be taken at a much earlier time. Therefore, the Party proposes an independent review body and, in addition, both a local and not least an external and independent assessment. An assessment, based on the majority’s view, which is mainly to be carried out locally and has concepts of self-assessment together with ‘critical friends’ on which employees feel safe, is, in the view of the Progress Party, an overly weak tool for dealing with fully-trained functional illiteracy, bullying and direct violence between students, teacher harassment and the fact that a large number of parents who care about school are viewed as a problem, and there is often a threat or a threat to child protection in this country. As far as the new National Development Centre is concerned, our comments have initially distanced us from this model, because the Progress Party cannot accept that the pooling of the National Educational Centre and the Examination Secretariat, including elements from the Department, provides a structure and responsibilities that promote development at all levels of the school. In addition, account must be taken of the fact that the new developments that are likely to take place will be adapted to the quality that already exists and that the whole is assessed and ensured before a new job is wasted. On that occasion I will show that the exam task in electronics in ours had one last page that was unreadable. This has been complained about from at least one school, and the answer goes – according to my information – that this was no problem, as the page that was unreadable did not mean anything to the solution! How can a public authority, responsible for an examination task, answer such a question? If it had no meaning, it should never have been sent out. Students do not have enough time to read the task text without meaning for the result. In fact, following the views of the Progress Party, a broad external national assessment is needed fully into the department with its underlying departments. The party of progress seems to be a school that educates independent people for a future that we don't know too much about, must be important to include in this. But one thing we know, and that is that the need for comprehensive and specialised knowledge will dramatically increase in the future. This need must be met by the school. Whether it is to be done only in a single school perspective, or whether diversity ensures the best future, time will show. The Progress Party chooses to focus on diversity, as, in our opinion, diversity does not create narrow boundaries where some people do not fit in. The party of progress clearly believes that people are fundamentally different. E.g. Einstein is not a clone of Disraeli etc. This is a valuable plus of humanity, and if we take advantage of all human possibilities in a reasonable interaction and accept that political ideologies cannot control this development for an unlimited time, we can face the future safely. I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party alone has made. The others will take up the right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1266	Ursula Evje has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1271	I have no reason to believe anything but that it is well intended when the Progress Party proposes to establish an independent school supervision to inspect the schools and grade them according to the level of knowledge the students have. In order to achieve this, the Progress Party will, among other things, have standard tests all the way down to childhood. In England, they introduced a similar school - supervision system not long ago, and the reactions of their parents are beginning to come. They react to the pressure the children are being subjected to in this system, which includes: knowledge tests are an important part of the stage of childhood. And they believe that it does not promote the learning of the students, on the contrary, it creates anxiety and insecurity. The working party wants a school in which all children can develop their skills and facilities, where they must retain their appetite for life, their curiosity and their greatest knowledge. We don't see it as a goal to get a school where everyone should go along in a rigid system that efficiently sorts the children within a narrow frame. I have the impression that that's what the Progress Party wants with knowledge tests, school inspections, etc. Is it really such a school representative Ursula Evje wants? Then I have another question, and it's about bullying in school and the problems you have, especially in high school: if the representative wants to do something about it, why doesn't she support the Workers' Party's proposal for more adults into high school?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1282	Yes, on the part of the Progress Party, these proposals are actually well thought of. There's nothing to doubt at all. I can't believe it's the least wrong to allow students to show what level of knowledge they're knowing about a standardised model. Instead you get something to go after, because you can demand different things from the different kids and not exactly the same thing from all of them. I could - if I had had time - have told a story about a little boy who had to steal his math books because he wanted to rain, but he didn't get permission from the teacher, because he had to do other things. But I'll leave it. In the case of knowledge tests, etc., this is probably not particularly difficult, especially for Norway or especially for the Progress Party. We're being tested here at any time, every time we open our mouths in this room, both by the media and by each other. We tolerate it, we don't bow down, and I don't think the children bow down either if this is done in a positive way. As far as bullying in school is concerned, I cannot be involved in efforts that are only of a preventive, planned nature. I want action and something that happens here and now. The English system may have a lot to put on, but it's a lot positive about it as well. The representative Dørum referred to some parents. It's similar to many others who think it's good, and who are very concerned that the standard at the English school has become very bad after England started approaching the Scandinavian model.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1297	The Progress Party stands out with several own assessments and proposals that I believe the representative is right to say, and I cannot doubt that. We want all the quality developments in school. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to have an assessment system that can promote school development and make school a learning organisation. It has been important for us to be process oriented to get dynamics and participation from all groups in school in this quality work. We believe that we now have an assessment system that takes care of these considerations. I have also experienced the representative Evje so that the Progress Party is also concerned with quality. She apparently said in her speech that one actually needs an external evaluation all the way into the department, and such a statement would emphasize the quality of the Progress Party. But then I'm a little surprised that you think about independent school supervision. As far as I can see, this proposal has a number of side effects: it becomes red tape by getting a central body that requires a lot of reporting, quality assurance for this reporting, and it is also a complaint body; it becomes professional minimum standards for students to reach. A focus on information gathering and documentation rather than focusing on the purpose of the assessment system. The party of progress appears to be most concerned with evaluation rather than school development. Then my questions are: How will the Progress Party help us to avoid getting information bureaucracy and extensive documentation systems? Why does the Progress Party not focus on school development rather than evaluation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1308	If the representative Lyngstad had cared about reading all our suggestions and comments, and not only apparently hearing after what I had time to join in my post, he would see that we also have a quite simple, clear, easily understandable and effective model for reporting the reporting data. This can happen so easily, quickly and economically that it is only the Internet that limits this. It's not expensive either. A small, newly developed unit, as per currently not in mass production, at a cost of around NOK 1000. This may be provided for each reporting person. Then you can get rid of standardised data reports, transfer it over the Internet by connecting this little device into another machine, and then it does it automatically. The receiving station may, as the Progress Party mentions, for example: are the Central Statistical Agency, which is used to handling large amounts of data in a relatively short period of time, and may co-operate and report back to those who have to have the amount of data processed. This is not a problem if you want to see the opportunities that lie in the technology and electronics you have. But it's clear that you don't want to, it's nothing that's simple. It seems that the representative Lyngstad is either not aware of the possibilities offered by the technology, or he has simply not read our comments and our proposals. As regards the red tape of an independent external assessment body, it does not have to be large. On the contrary, it can be very, very small. It's just as the individual wants it, and as the majority decides.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1317	I think we can say that the Government has got a lot of things in this message, for what it says here, and too many things that don't stand here. But there are a few things that there are minority comments and suggestions. One of them goes to the National Development Centre. The right is opposed to the proposal to create such a centre. We have a hard time seeing some particular gain by merging two institutions that today have quite different tasks. We're also in doubt if there's a real need for a new organ. So we say no, but then the question is, what is the Progress Party actually thinking about this thing? The Party of Progress begins its comment by saying that they oppose the establishment of a national development centre. But then they put forward a proposal that says, ‘The Government is asking the Government to carry out an investigation into the governance and responsibilities of the Development Secretariat’. Then my question is, is it that the Progress Party agrees with Right in this case, or is it so simple that they are just disagreeable with themselves? I might add: What is it actually the Progress Party thinks about this Development Secretariat?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1326	I am incredibly happy that a representative from the Right asks me this question, because it goes into the question I got instead. It is clear that a development centre, in accordance with the model promoted by the Government in its communication, and desired by the majority, does not want the Progress Party. It is also evident from our remarks that we are not opposed to any progress in any way, but we are strongly opposed to the governance model proposed for this centre. What we're quite clear about is that the National Apprenticeship Centre has been and is organized according to this kind of government, and it doesn't work satisfactorily in one way or another. That's why we're trying to signal that the Progress Party wants a school in continuous development, and that someone has to be involved and contribute to this development, have overall responsibility. But the model that the Government of the Council of State uses, we have a big problem accepting. Then we will say yes to a development unit, assuming that we have some faith that it can be properly operated and managed, and that we avoid the same issues that the National Educational Centre has faced over time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1335	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1339	When the State Council, Lilletun, presented the message "Towards Richer Goals" to the media, he firmly affirmed that this was a settlement with the Workers' Party's centralized school reforms. In his work on the communication, he has also had to moderate himself in writing and has informed the Committee that the measures he proposes in the communication we are debating today do not require any legislative changes, and that existing curricula actually inspire the Council of State to work towards more interaction between local, more developmental, more open contact between school and society around it. At the same time, the Council of State considers that this is possible within the same economic framework as today, and has not, as was the case before the government takeover, found the need to do something about the income system. As stated in the setting, the government parties have written with the Workers' Party and SV about most, and the Advance Party and the Right have isolated themselves from their budget friends. Now it's pretty exciting to know how the government is going to follow up on what they're writing with the left hand side of, when they're tied to the mast with the right hand side. – So far about the interesting new orientation that has now taken place in the Education Committee after they have been so far with the Progress Party and the Right on the move. In discussing the school's overall objectives in relation to the development of the single school, we need to take into account the school's overall objectives of providing equivalent training to all, regardless of where students live in the country, the students' cultural background, abilities and assumptions. It is part of the school's goal of facilitating social fellowship between students, where they both learn and experience what it means to cooperate in spite of inequalities. The curriculum emphasizes the infinite value of the students and the equivalency of all. Adapted training is a basic principle — the school should contribute to the development of the integrated human being. As the Workers' Party sees it, the purpose of student assessment is to promote learning. Student assessment must also be seen in the light of the principle of adapted training. Student assessment shall promote learning and provide inspiration for seeking new knowledge. Student assessment shall also promote the development of self-respect and stimulate the will and ability to seek new knowledge. A student's assessment needs to be very much seen in the light of the knowledge we have about the ability of individuals to develop, if the student is taught according to his/her desire and interest, commitment and choice, and not least his/her own responsibilities. It is far more important in a learning process that a class community is, that individuals learn to work together on the tasks than to win over others in the class in competition. There's hardly any human scale for who's best. As you can see, there is still a marked distance between the ideals of school and the reality of school. The school has to harness itself to create a structure where the students succeed more than they fail, just to ensure the primary goal of the school, to organize learning that makes them believe that when the students leave school, they are valuable people for which society needs to. The majority believe that today’s rating system is not suitable for assessing how students have achieved the school’s overall objectives. The curriculum emphasises that students should be able to take increasing responsibility for their own learning. Therefore, planning, setting targets and assessing the extent to which they achieve the objective must be an important part of the knowledge institute. This way students can be developed as knowledge producers rather than as knowledge consumers. It is such a way of thinking that is the basis for the majority’s judgements and decision-making. This view is opposed to the Progress Party and the Right, which propose more measurement of specific and detailed performance specifications as the basis for a national system. The products are to be measured and evaluated against a national standard. In our view, such a scheme does not emphasise the importance of the curricula either of adapted training or of the learning process itself as the way to knowledge. We've seen clear trends in assaults in high school lately. This is alarming because the single school is the very basis for the development of our democracy, as we see it. Therefore, the preservation and further development of the single school is an extremely important political issue. We have to work to show that the single school has qualities that make it uninteresting for parents to think about free school choices and private school arrangements for their children. That's why we need a more comprehensive strategy that can make the grades of the single school visible. In the opinion of the majority of committees, it is obvious that the school community is assessing its activities. We believe that school-based assessment needs to be organised in such a way that all groups in the school are involved. School-based assessment must also be based on dialogue between people to interact. All those linked to the school community — students, parents, teachers and other added — must be involved in this. The addressee of this assessment is the school itself. In Norwegian school, we have no tradition of external control of the school community. In the opinion of the Working Party, the effect of external control on an inspector's corps, with subsequent amendments, is doubtful. It's a well-known experience that people change because they see the need for change, not necessarily because someone says they should change. External guidance, however, can be valuable if the school community so wishes, and that is what the majority is in favour of. But both the political and the administrative level needs knowledge about Norwegian school. The municipal level needs to know how the resources of the school are used so that they can also ensure good use of resources. The school has a central place in any community, and many follow the school with great interest. In our decentralised society, knowledge of the school can also be acquired by the proximity that is systematically able to establish between the school and the population of the individual village or district. The state level must build its knowledge of the school on the national leadership of the school, on the allocation of resources, on the collection of a number of statistical data on the school and on the report of education directors and district officials. In setting up a new development secretariat only with administrative tasks related to development and experimentation, the government will also signal an experimental exposure. That's good. At the same time, there is also a need for clarification between the different levels of government, and we have therefore asked the Government to come back with this after some time. Although there are some voices that speak against, and although some are reluctant, we are now going to realize the 13-year-old school on the basis of a common training law. Most people will go to school for 13 years, and the school will then adapt to the abilities and assumptions of the students. Extensive development work also requires resources in the form of financial resources and a competent, inspired staff in cooperation with politicians and others responsible for the school. As stated in the preamble, a majority of the Workers' Party, the Government Parties and the SV consider it to be a matter of concern to the major challenges facing society to choose to spend a lot of time, attention and, not least, financial resources on designing an assessment system that has control as its essential foundation. The objective of assessment is learning and improvement; therefore, assessment should not be an end in itself. Therefore, student assessment needs to be developed as a tool to help each student to learn well, thereby developing the individual’s knowledge, and it needs to be based on dialogue and self-assessment. As a consequence of such a vision, national screening tests should be reduced. The current ranking of pupils by character system is not suitable for assessing how students have achieved the school objectives. It is necessary to initiate development work in order to identify methods of assessment that bring together teaching principles and assessment principles, which are contrary to ranking and which rather involve students — in fact, they themselves. The school-based assessment must be in-school as part of each school’s work on quality development. Available resources must also be deployed to develop what is far more important, namely the functioning of the single school as intended. With this I would recommend the setting and also take up the Workers' Party's proposal that we stand alone or together with SV about, which is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1382	Grete Knudsen has taken up the suggestions she herself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1387	The representative Grete Knudsen said something that clearly shows the distinction between the minority and the majority in this case, namely that it should be uninteresting for parents to consider private alternatives to the single school. This says something about how Grete Knudsen and the Workers' Party, but also the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, look at parental exposure. It is much better for the above-mentioned batches that parents feel uninteresting and therefore do not engage. But in the treatment of Inner. S. No 96 for 1996-97 the following Decision was adopted: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the question of the establishment of a national primary school assessment system.’ The majority of the Committee said: ‘Member States must take responsibility for the development of a national assessment system that helps to ensure...’. I just notice that there must have been an awful lot of water in the ocean since then, because I've actually checked who formed this majority. And the meaning they had at the time, obviously they don't have today. But I would like to be allowed to ask the representative Grete Knudsen to clarify just what is the difference between what you want today in terms of a total local assessment, and what was said a relatively short time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1405	First of all, with the private schools: what I said, and as I'm going to emphasize again, is that the school of unity really needs a quality promise, so that parents don't think it's interesting to choose anything else, because the school of unity is actually so competitive that no one else can produce anything similar to it. And there we still have a job to do. In the case of a national assessment strategy or system, it is essential to measure the quality of school activities and how resources are used. This must also be done at state level, and there will be assistance from a development secretariat and from the education directors. With regard to the distribution of the various tasks, we have asked the Government to come back and clarify this. However, with regard to each school and individual student, the Labour Party has always intended and continues to believe that individual students should be assessed in relation to themselves. They shouldn't have to be constantly compared to others through a character system that might get someone who's not so good to feel like a loser all the time. There are many other ways to measure, and that's what we want to light up. We therefore believe that it should continue to be a national assessment system. A strategy should also be put in place to assess the school's efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1414	For the treatment of St.meld. No 28 for 1998-99 there has been a great deal of agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre Parties, and we are very pleased about that. The Workers' Party has previously criticised the Government's school policy to be a deterrent to labour party policy. The main thrust of this Communication is local assessment and development work. The Workers' Party is committed here to the government's school policy. Despite the start of the Knudsen posts, I still ask: Can the Workers' Party agree that this school policy is going in a different direction from the central government previously held under the Workers' Party and Hernes?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1421	To that, the answer is no, because you don't actually change anything in the law. It confirms the Council of State. You don't change the curriculum. And if we go into the existing curricula, we'll see that they're just saying that you have to start from the local conditions that arise, and have contact with everyone who's close to school. But then again you can ask, how are you going to do that? It is Lilletun's problem, in the same way that it was the Council of State Sandals and the Council of State Hernes' problem. Then, of course, there will be a relatively rapid call for more resources, so that people can have the power to contact the community and bring it in in order to work with the students on an individual basis. Here we have also referred to a report from Norwegian Teachers' Team, which has conducted a survey in 199 of their local teams. There they say that they are unable to individualize during a period when they are actually being deprived of funds, because they have to cope with the reform of the elderly. Then it's a problem for the Council of State when we want the exact same thing, and our entire law is intact – as it was. Ergo continues the government councils in this area the Labour Party's policy, which we believe is positive. We should also want him to do so with regard to private schools.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1428	I'm not going to go into the discussion between the Workers' Party and the Government's parties about who is a shadow of who, or who has written with who, but be careful to note that under no circumstances has there been any gain for the clarity of the positions. Now the representative Knudsen probably exaggerated the consensus, because she referred to it as if the majority had the impression that we have a 13-year-old college. On that point, the message says the exact opposite, and as far as I understand it, the government parties agree with the Council of State. She also said that the majority represented the very negative view of the characters she developed. The person who has read the committee setting will probably have seen that this is not the case either. There is a minority, consisting of the Workers' Party and SV, who have special comments on that point. The two are also not in agreement, but promote their own proposals. I guess that's not the consensus! However, I note that the question of whether or not a system of national evaluation is desired is apparently unclear to the majority as well. The councils come back in the message and say he doesn't want a system, but instead a national strategy. On page 5 of the majority comment: ‘The majority consider that there is a need for a more coordinated approach to Norwegian education in schools and apprenticeships, linked to national ‘transparency’ and assessment. It is therefore necessary to systematise the national strategy.’ I have to confess that I'm a little overly understanding. You don't want a system, you want a strategy. But now is the time to systematize the strategy? Then I have to ask: why do you not want a system, if there is a need to systematize the strategy, beyond what the Council of State and the message do?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1446	I guess it's true that the message says a little different when it comes to the 13-year-old elementary school. But at the same time, it's a reality that most people are going to be in school for 13 years, because everyone is entitled to secondary education. This will also give society a specific responsibility to ensure appropriate training for absolute all. In the case of trials with non-characteristic primary schools, the majority have written that it is in order to develop further. But it is clear that also here SV and the Workers' Party go a little further. With regard to the strategy for assessment, I think it is absolutely right to have a strategy to ensure that we can figure out how resources are used and be able to measure the quality of school. But there's much more to it than evaluating the individual student. The whole school community has to be assessed, and this cannot be done in the simple way that Inge Wohnung and Right usually fall into, namely simply to assess the individual student's efforts and let each student compete with others, and, where appropriate, to publish the characteristics. There I think we're separating layers, which also proved to be in this line, where Inge's pay is also the most characteristic of others.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1455	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1458	The government has through St.meld. No 28 for 1998-99. The development lines that we are putting out today will lead the school "To richer goals". The Christian People's Party is really pleased that the school is going to spend time and energy on quality and development, not on control and ranking. We get a plan for assessment where the main goal is learning and improvement. All stages shall be held responsible and activated in order to achieve quality development: State, county and municipal, school as an organisation, teacher and individual student. Many schools have come a long way in looking at their own business and teaching students to assess their own work and efforts. This is to be further built on. Local quality assurance and development work with school-based assessment and self-assessment by teachers and students as a pillar of a national strategy shall contribute actively to a better school. «Towards richer objectives» is the basis for an equivalent training, in which education and school work shall be adapted to the individual student's requirements. This is a simple form of motivation and a tracker to seek new learning. The Christian People's Party wants a broad assessment of the student and the student's work. We don't want to take the grades away now, but we want other forms of assessment as well. The objectives and working methods set by the reforms are necessary. Our main goal is to get the best possible school. Perhaps trials without grades in high school will show that students are more motivated and have equally good learning outcomes professionally and globally. But for the time being, we see it so that grades can be included and provide some information that is requested. With regard to the innovations to which the message relates, the Christian People's Party sees them as positive and exciting. We welcome a national development centre, a place where resources and competences in the field can be brought together and coordinated. The electronic resource bank becomes a meeting place where one can obtain information, inspiration and concrete help in the assessment and quality development work, and where schools and teachers can also put in ideas and useful experience that others may need. An educational policy development message from the State Council to the Stortinget is good. This will ensure a systematic follow-up of different sites. New ideas can be presented and changes can be made more easily when the need arises. This can lead to a more continuous development in which the price is adjusted along the way, rather than in large reform cases. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we are not allowed to introduce so-called inspector's corps, and that there is no majority in favour of the proposal of the Right and Advance Party for the establishment of independent school supervision. We believe in the proposal of groups with external interlocutors – critical friends. We believe that they can be more readily welcomed at school as trainers and ideas in the school's internal work on the development of assessment and quality. We believe it is important that the school itself sees the benefit of being able to consult with someone outside, who can see both the positive work of the school and its problems in a more objective way. This is part of the work of making school a more open organization. The councils have in St.meld. No 28 announced that he would present a revised action plan on ICT in school. It is important and useful to develop a plan to demonstrate the need for ICT equipment and investment, the training of teachers in this field in general and as a educational tool. We are therefore in favour of the Committee's position. The economy must be seen as partners, and municipalities and municipalities must be responsible for equipment, software and continuing training. It is important to look at the whole of such an ICT plan and to adapt its implementation to a sound financial framework in the budgetary context. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that the majority in this Chamber agree with the main principles of a national strategy for the assessment and quality development of primary and secondary education.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1480	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1483	This Storing Message is a follow-up to two Storing Decisions. One is a national assessment system, and the other is a decision asking the Government to carry out an analysis of primary school provision in order to monitor whether pupils receive an equivalent school offer in line with the principles of the single school. Despite many reports and reports of poor indoor climate conditions in schools, the ministry has not found it worth examining what the situation actually is. Fortunately, we have the Children’s Ombudsman, and according to a survey produced by the Children’s Ombudsman in the autumn of 1998, less than half of the schools would meet the requirements of the Regulation on Environmental Health Protection by 1 January 1999, which was the date of entry into force of this Regulation. We have today a school where many kids get sick of being, and that's a development we can't sit still and watch. For this reason, the Workers' Party and the SV have re-found it necessary to present a proposal we made in connection with the budget in the autumn, asking the Government to provide an overview of the costs of upgrading public school buildings in order to meet the requirements of the regulation on environmental health protection. But even this time, the government parties cannot support this proposal, and then I have to ask why? Why can't the government parties join in on a proposal where we're just asking to get the numbers on the table? Is it because government parties are afraid of what such an overview will show?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1492	: We in the Christian People’s Party are aware that many schools have problems with the indoor climate and their buildings. We want to see this in a broader context, namely in the context of the whole learning situation for young people, and we have said something about this in our comments on the communication. We therefore do not want to go into the proposal to create any more advice to do a job in this context. The Council of State has said that he will come up with a case on this. At least we fully agree on the need for action in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1499	I can't quite manage to let go of something I think is reasonably strange, and it's obviously the extreme reluctance of the Christian People's Party towards an independent assessment of the public school. They don't want to talk about this at all when it comes to buildings, learning processes, books or teachers. Then I would like to remind you of what the Council of State said in a debate in the NRK, where, among other things. The representative Norvoll was there. The Council of State actually comforted the representative Norvoll by saying that private schools were not so bad, because these were at least to be evaluated. They were to be carefully and externally evaluated to see if they broke the principles they were approved for. Understood, this was a pretty straightforward threat that if they broke the acceptance principles, they would lose the right to operate. As late as Sunday, the Council of State repeated this in an almost full-page interview in the evening post. My question to the Christian People's Party is: Is the Christian People's Party of the opinion that the public unit school is so weak that it does not tolerate an external evaluation, while the private school is so robust that it tolerates it without further ado?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1510	: In the case of private schools, they are supervised by the Director of Education. I do not think the representative Ursula Evje has any basis for saying that we believe that the public school does not tolerate external evaluation. We want absolutely an open school. We have said something about parental assistance, about the responsibilities of municipalities and that we want municipal politicians to get involved in school policy and school assessment. But we believe in another system. We don't want it to be just a system that's standing outside and looking at what the stand is, but a system that can be built up from the inside and that can really help raise the quality of what's being done in school. We don't want it to set up independent school supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1517	: Right believes in a rating system with characters, and this system should retain information and motivation and for other reasons. We therefore go against what the pluralist, including the Christian People's Party, has said in the vote: ‘The majority are in favour of local trials with evaluation without the use of grades at the level of youth’. But what is remarkable is the Christian People's Party's view of these matters. In the Grand Election Programme for the Christian People's Party, it is called, among other things, the\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Christian People's Party is in favour of the use of grades at secondary and secondary level.’ At the national meeting in the Christian People's Party, this was also a matter, and in an NTB message after that national meeting, the following is said: ‘The characters in secondary school must not be removed, adopted the KrF national meeting by 53 votes on Saturday. Minister of Education Jon Lilletun recommended the national meeting to open up probationary schemes with non-characteristic secondary schools. But the national meeting said no.’ My question is: is it that the Christian People's Party will go away from both its programme and the National Assembly Decision in order to support the Labour Party and the SV with the intention of launching an experiment with non-character youth schools? I think this is quite serious, and it requires a reasonably clear answer. Here's what's going on here is that the bulk of this stuff can take one road or the other. In this context, I would like to draw attention to a proposal from the Right that goes on this very important matter, and I hope it is possible in connection with this reply to raise the proposal, which gives the Christian People's Party an opportunity to skip on the line that is in line with the national meeting decision and their programme. But what is it actually Christian People's Party I mean?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1541	It is possible in connection with the line to raise the proposal, and Petter Løvik has then taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1544	Characters or not grades in high school – fortunately we discuss it in the Christian People's Party; we have programmed things, and we have said something about this in the manifesto we adopted in Bergen. This press release, I think, went out on the first night, while we discussed three different proposals that concerned this with grades, and it probably got a little crooked at what the national meeting agreed, namely that we want alternative forms of assessment in addition to grades. We want to try this out. Governments made earlier proposals on the testing of freedom of character in high school. We think that's good, and we want to see what the result of this is; I said something about it in my post. If this turns out to be something that promotes the quality, development and motivation of the students, and that they learn as much without grades, I hope that in the Christian People's Party we can learn from that result. But for the time being, we want to say that there should be grades in high school, but that there should be alternative forms of assessment, and we think it's okay with some trials without.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1553	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1556	After the last answer, it is almost necessary to ask for the decision-making protocol to be sent from the Christian People's Party's national meeting, so that it is possible for others also to get involved in what the national meeting has actually adopted; it was not easy to get wise on the answer. Like the representative Ursula Evje, I also read the Evening Post's big interview with the Council yesterday with great interest. During the interview, the journalist asks the question: ‘Would you like to strengthen supervision of private schools?’ And the Council of State answers: ‘We intend to systematise it. And it has to be the supervisory authority that decides how to do it. We cannot accept, even in the case of private education, as a principle that it is the person to be checked who appoints the inspector. It may not be possible in any context or situation.» That's a very good thing to say. For my part, I should have wished that the Council of State had come to this recognition before he made the announcement, so that he could have taken the consequences of it in the big message he has provided. The crash message actually argues that you should not have a system, because system and systematization are obviously negatively charged words. It is all the more remarkable as the starting point for the whole case is the unanimous request of the Stortinge. S. No 96 for 1996-97: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the question of the establishment of a national primary school assessment system.’ The communication submitted by the Council of State responds to the fact that one does not want a ‘national assessment system’, rather than a ‘national strategy’. And what is then outlined in the report is really just the first step in a real school-based evaluation, namely that the school should evaluate itself. There's no disagreement about that. Every sensible activity in this world evaluates itself continuously if it takes its own business seriously. It was just supposed to be missing! And then it's built up into a system that's not quite easy to get access to, where with local variations, you can look for an opening for employeeship from the local environment. However, it is on a voluntary basis, it is not outlined how, and the questions to be asked or the conditions to be evaluated have not been outlined. But if this is the case, right? We have nothing against it, it's excellent, but there's no answer to what was the Stortinge order – because out of this, there's no system or anything that's national, it's just the first piece, that's the local part. At this point I must also say that I have difficulty understanding the position of the Workers' Party. And it didn't get any easier after listening to the committee leader. The Labour Party has recently expressed considerable scepticism about the Council of State offensive to local diversity and variation. However, it is quite unclear to me how the Workers' Party believes that national evaluation work should actually take place. The only thing you say positively about this is that you want to endorse the creation of a development secretariat, but the work of this development secretariat is not defined at all; it will only be discussed at a later stage. I can't help but understand that the message "Towards a Richer Goal" is half a document, in the sense that it only answers the first half of the question about a school rating system, that is, the part of the job to be done by the schools themselves. The very weakest part of the big message is, to my knowledge, the cap. 5.4, which deals with experience from other countries. It's on exactly one side. The other countries limit themselves to three: Denmark, Sweden and Scotland, and no justification has been given for the exact choice of these three. Nor is there any reason why the notification does not draw any exchange of experience from Denmark, Sweden or Scotland. I can't see that, at a single point in the Council's communication, there's been some attempt to justify the strategy he's sketching fairly vaguely, with reference to the experience of other countries. There is now quite a wealth of experience from most European countries, for most European countries have just what the Council of State does not want, namely a national evaluation system. It would have been reasonable to review the need for such a system in Norway, to do something more thorough in terms of international comparison, and to explain why the Norwegian school is so radically different from the school system in most other European countries, that we in Norway can do without what is completely convinced in most other countries that one cannot do without. Governments have used Anders Vassbotn's verse: ‘To live, it’s to love the best your soul got now; to live, it is working towards richer goals to tread.’ Anders Vassbotn is a good authority to stick to. But I wonder if the Council of State has not been harmed to use him against Anders Vassbotn's own intentions, because what Anders Vassbotn is talking about is life's school, not school. And that's well at this point I think the message has been wrong, by confusing a kind of all-embracing goal for the socialization of children and young people, their growth to become mature independent people, with what's the school's task and responsibility. The goal we all agree on, but it's not the school alone that's going to achieve that goal. After all, school is still just a part of the world of life of children and young people. In addition to school, they have an environment to be part of the comprehensive learning environment. And that's also at this point I think the evaluation discussion is tracking. You warn against control, you warn against grades, you warn all the way to measure things that can be measured at all, because it can be dangerous. And then you justify it because there are so many things that can't be measured. Yes, of course it is. None of us can measure another person's personality or maturity. Nor is it the school's task to make an overall evaluation of people, because no one in this world is competent to do so. But I find it hard to understand that there is a reason why we should refrain from measuring what is scientifically measurable, for example. something as simple as reading skills. There is a strange remark in the common long argument of the Workers' Party and the SV against the use of grades, which refers, among other things, to. the burning fresh study of literacy in primary school, saying that this is measurement of factual knowledge. And that's a negative number of other places, too. But literacy certainly has nothing to do with factual knowledge. Literacy is an instrument, it's a prerequisite for all learning. Even in the data society, literacy is the prerequisite for enjoying the screen at all and being able to use it for any purpose. And literacy is the condition for learning in most other areas. Then it must be of course interesting to measure how far students have come to acquire what is the tool for all adult learning. The right has stated that we want to maintain that it is essential and important to separate the objectives of primary and secondary education. And the fact that the vast majority of people go through high school does not mean that they have a single school, as little as they might have over 50 pst. which undertakes a higher education course, means that the higher education institutions should also be a single school. The difference is that primary school is compulsory to meet the statutory training obligation. Different evaluation systems are needed in primary and secondary education. The right has made some concrete proposals on points where we believe that, without particularly high costs, action can be taken to provide us with a real national evaluation system. And then finally, at one point, we're 100 pst. agree with the majority, and that is that evaluation is not an objective, evaluation is a means. But that's an absolutely necessary means, and then you have to be willing to evaluate what can be evaluated. I refer to the proposals that the Right has promoted alone and together with the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1606	No salary has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1612	I had been waiting for a post from Inge Wage with some visions about the school of the future. But after hearing this 10-minute post, I feel that they were actually completely absent. It was like a school policy reverse in terms of the future. Right-wing school policy, according to the article presented here, and also according to the comments, is based on the following in my view: external school control, primary school character control and assessment systems. Concepts such as ‘control’ and ‘characters’ go like a red thread through the Right School Policy View in this setting, as well as in the post that Inge Wohnung has just held. I have not been active in school policy for so many years, but I have followed fairly well in school policy, and I have to ask: what is the difference on the Right saying here in this room today, at the end of this century, and what they said in the 1960s, 1970s, 1980s and 1990s? What are the trends? I've seen an evolution, and it came out in the VG just before the weekend. There's Inge Wohnung talking about the fight against teacher organisations. That's new. But it may not be so strange when the Right School Policy Window in Oslo is broken. So my question is, can Inge Wohnung give me some examples of what is new in the Right School Policy View today, in 1999, compared to the 1970s?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1623	I am not going to compete with the representative Kristiansen in vision – it has become a specialty for the Workers' Party in the last six months, especially in relation to Fornebu, the visions are as close as herring in voice. I have to say that I prefer to use my mind rather than using visions and revelations. Now both the representative Kristiansen and I have been elected as representatives of the capital, and if I have understood correctly, the Workers' Party's criticism of the school policy of the right-wing city council has just gone to the fact that it was new, and that it broke with the lines that the Workers' Party itself has followed. But then it must be a cross of thought for the representative of Kristiansen that all the polls that have been carried out show that, for example. free choice of schools and publication of the evaluation of schools have an overwhelming upturn from the majority of city voters. And it's even – it's even more interesting – the biggest uprising in the districts that are traditionally the most labor party dominated, namely the Groruddalen and the Oslo inner East. They also show a clear majority of workers who are positive about this school policy. It must be a cross of thought for the representative of Kristiansen that the school policy he and the Workers' Party do not even have an uproar from the Labour Party's own voters. They vote in the party not because of its school policy, but despite its school policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1632	Like the representative of Kristiansen, I must also say that I think the Right Representative here is jumping over a very important element in this message when he stresses that we are now going to have a system instead of a strategy. I am of those who say that nothing is going to be perfect, but that the representative's pay skips the school development perspective and places so little emphasis on his post, I think it's surprising. It's very important with school-based assessment, because it helps focus on quality, it strengthens the teacher's role, and it brings a dynamic environment into school, which we need. But because the Right obviously has come further and is concerned about the whole thing, like this good element becomes out of focus. The right-hand problem is also addressed with adapted training, and refers here to the youth stage and the debate on the Pattern Plan. In response, the Right promotes a proposal to reorganise youth with a view to giving students greater freedom of choice. The Christian People's Party agrees that something needs to be done about youth, in particular we will point to adulthood in high school, educational and methodological further development, and we need to look at continuing education for teachers and how the plans for this also meet the needs of high school. The Christian People's Party is willing to go further into the assessment of high school, but the Right already seems to have concluded. After all, the representative likes clear positions and comprehensive solutions. The question must then be: Do the Right have any thoughts about what the freedom of choice is to be used for, and what subjects are now to become optional?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1641	I fundamentally disagree with the representative Lyngstad that the development perspective was absent. For me, it is self-evident that all evaluation should serve development. What else would it be good for? It is quite obvious that when we try to find sensible evaluation tools, it is precisely because we are convinced that it is an indispensable tool for improving quality and development. What is noted, for example, by means of: grades, which are no more than simple symbols, are the potential for improvement present. The condition for people to want to move towards a ‘richer goal’ is that it is found that this is an improvement potential – and how to exploit that potential for improvement? I don't think there's any disagreement between the majority and the minority in terms of objectives at all, but in my opinion, the majority will stop halfway, and barely so, because they don't have credible instruments that are suitable to achieve the goal. I asked in the change of line after the director's posts what the majority really think when they say that it is necessary to systematize the national strategy. Now it's not possible to ask questions back to the replicator, but I would appreciate it if also the spokespersons of the government parties, who are in the same majority, could come back and tell you what that means, because I didn't get much wiser from the answer that the committee leader gave. In response to the question of what the Right believes by the greater freedom of choice: we do not mean to problematize the ideal of adapted training – the ideal is excellent, but we would point out that it is an extremely difficult ideal to fulfil, and we want to give the individual teacher much greater freedom when it comes to grouping students, among others. But the condition that individual teachers can gain greater freedom is that there is a quality system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1652	During this debate, no pay has received a lot of questions, and he has not yet answered one of them. The last question he got was about greater freedom of choice. Then it was about freedom of choice to group students – there was greater freedom of choice, in response to Lyngstad’s questions. This setting has revealed at least one aspect: the main lines of education policy are between the Progress Party and the Right on the one hand and the other parties on the other. And there's also a bunch of other dividing lines, but the main dividing lines go there. Wages and salaries used a good deal of time to settle the lack of a notification system, an assessment system, a nationwide assessment system. If we read the setting, in which areas do we see that the Right has outlined a system? They've added up to some more use of grades. On the basis of the Right's proposal, we are now going to have the individual professional characters back in the middle. from 4th to 6th grade, and they will have more use of centrally administered samples. That's their response to the system. It's that simple, and you have to be aware of that. If Inge Wohnung has read the setting, he will probably have seen that we have sketched some models. We have said that there should be feedback on qualitative targets at national and municipal level, etc. All of this we have tried to create a system for – if it is not a implemented system, at least there is a sketch. And if Inge Wohnung had spent some time reading the setting, he might have discovered it. My question about pay goes on increasing the use of grades. Does Inge Wohnung believe that it outlines the right, to increase the use of individual grades, is in line with the elementary school curriculum, where one emphasises cooperation, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1665	I will avoid introducing work hypotheses about the read habits of the representative in the settings. But if I'm going to give a short answer to his question, I can refer to page 16, where the four proposals are listed, which together is the answer to the questions from the representative of Reikvam. ‘The Government requests the appointment of a selection to carry out a broad assessment...’, etc. That's what we've been trying to promote in the past as well, and it's a pretty basic move to get to grips with some of the problems. We have asked for ‘an independent school supervision with proposals for organisation and mandate’. We have also promoted that proposal in the past, as we know. And we have asked the Government to ‘follow up the proposal for mandatory diagnostic examinations in primary school with the establishment of professional ‘minimum standards’ in reading, writing and billing at all class stages’. It is a very concrete system measure, and we have asked the Government to ‘introduce a system of standardized tests in the subjects of Norwegian, mathematics, natural sciences and English in the middle and early stages of primary school’. We have also made proposals for 'greater freedom of choice' in the youth sector. All of this together, I think, is a fairly clear and clear answer to what we put in the system of national evaluation in primary school. Let me add that there is no particular reason, at my discretion, to conduct long-term debates for and against character use. It's an ancient debate, and all the arguments are ventilated a thousand times before. Personally, I think of grades as a simple means of communication that measures, as I said, what is at all measurable. And it's meant to be an aid to the improvement potential of the individual as well as in classes and throughout schools. But the condition for exploiting the potential for improvement is that you are willing to be fully transparent.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-14.ana.ud577e1676	So the chord change is over. The time for this morning's meeting is also late. The president proposed that the meeting should now be suspended and that a new meeting be set at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
