ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e25	The representative Odd Eriksen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. Mr Hans J. Røsjorde applied for leave from 9 June to 11 June to attend a meeting chaired by the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Kiev. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Terje Søviknes, is invited to meet during the period of leave3. Terje Søviknes is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Hans J. Røsjorde.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e51	The representative of John I. Alvheim will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e54	On behalf of Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I allow myself to put forward proposals for a review of the experience of the HVPU reform and an assessment of the need for action for some groups of clients.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e59	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e71	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e82	The media policy statement by the Council of State is a testing scheme to replace the annual reports on broadcasting and day-to-day press, which have always tended to be delayed and thus contained some information on developments that were too old. To succeed requires an ability to pull the lines forward, but until that was enough the explanation this time too much a summary and too little a presentation of the Government's strategy. But it was the world's first media act in Stortinget, so from the Labour Party side, we'll give the experiment another chance before maybe we go back to another scheme. The fact that the media policy objectives are firm, although we must be prepared to change the instruments on an ongoing basis when development is rapid, is a recognition that I am pleased that the centre parties have also arrived. We rely on the Council of State to follow developments closely and engage in this area as well. Nevertheless, there is reason to ask how much these words from the Council of State are worth when we see that the objectives are constantly being countered through, among other things. cut into the press support. In recent years, it has been difficult to see what the State Council wants to do with media policy, in addition to using it as a balancing post. Over the last two years, the size has taken the initiative for most of the issues that the Government has put forward, and I still think it is a little late. We have an intention to be at the forefront of development, which is not easy when things take time. Digitisation will bring about major changes, even if it will take place gradually. Then we have to give our public broadcasters time to develop a quality level and a viewing loyalty that strengthens their ability to face stronger competition. It is the most effective way to achieve the policy objectives. We see that this also creates new activity here at home, not least in business policy. There's going to be an interesting market on the content page, where we have the opportunity to be involved. And we already see that we are strengthening our position internationally in that area. It is also the safest way to provide media content based on the Norwegian, not Anglo-American, reality, with the preservation of Norwegian language, culture and values as important premisses. For the NRK part, it might now look like we're getting some of the clarifications we've asked for. To give development opportunities, I think it's right to follow the model that, among other things. The BBC's been doing great. Then we have the opportunity to make the NRK more effective in a stronger competition, and it is urgent to clarify the roles of the state media company. We as owners of the NRK must have a clear relationship with being owners, while at the same time we have to be able to give NRK development opportunities in line with the other broadcasters. We will probably come back to this in the context of the two matters that are now under consideration in the Committee. Now the Council of State announced that she would finally initiate discussions with TV 2 on further concession, and I expect that an evaluation of it and its care will be carried out, and that the same will apply to P4. I also expect that the Stortinget will be given the opportunity to discuss issues related to the concession, in good faith before a renewal is due, because there are several interesting issues that will need to be addressed. We also use as well known concessions as a political means of steering. But before we get that far, I'll give the Council of State the opportunity to come further in the evaluation of today's concessions. One of the elements that needs to be discussed is the relationship to the merger between the media, and how we want to take care of the public broadcasters in that context. I think otherwise it's a little strange that the Council of State sends stronger signals about what she intends to do, at a larger media conference than what she's doing here in Stortinget. The situation of close-to-life broadcasting has undergone major changes in recent years. Proximity radios still have some open questions, including: the relationship with bingo, which is important for their development potential. Especially for local TV there has been a huge development in recent years. We have put in place a regime that gives local TV the opportunity to develop, even though I have the impression that there is still a bit too much gaping. At least that gives the economic results the impression. Now it's relatively short time since they started, and I expect that there will be changes in that situation over the next few years. Here, the relationship with TVNorway is also important. Therefore, it is essential that the owners of TvNorway continue to see the connection made between TvNorway’s framework conditions and their connection to local TV. Press policy has taken surprising turns in recent years. That is why I am now pleased that we are working on a new daily press selection. But when the cow dies as the grass grows, there is a need to make changes. This is why it would also have been appropriate to increase press support to stabilise the situation of many newspapers until the conclusions of the sample are available, and we can adopt a revised press policy. Such signals have not been given by the Council of State, and it disappoints me. In particular, the press support newspapers have been able to adapt their costs to developments over the last two years, so it is not correct when it is claimed that they have increased expenditure and thus a more difficult economic situation, as the Council of State stated. The difficult economic situation is largely due to the policy pursued by the Council of State in recent years. The figures used in the presentation give a completely wrong picture of the economy of the papers. When property is sold for reasons of government policy, it is wrong to give the impression that it is revenue. Whether it's the state council that's trying to trick itself, or to explain the effects of its own policy, I'm not going to speculate. It's possible she believes in it herself. But the situation in eight of the most vulnerable newspapers is that the operating deficit after press support, corrected for such extraordinary revenues, is over 23 million. kr worse from 1997 to 1998 – for eight of the 123. If the Council of State needs an update of its figures, I'm going to be helpful with that. At the next presentation, it might be an idea to include figures that show what the situation really is in the newspapers, and not theoretical calculations that give an incomplete picture of the situation, and that are totally unsuitable for debate in this room. The Ownership Act has now entered into force. In this context, it is also necessary to recall that the supervisory body must concentrate mainly on following the intentions of the law and keeping the ownership structures in focus, especially at national level. It is very easy to go into the trap of focusing too much on small, local changes, thus losing the overall picture of development. It was never the intention of the Storting to help stop buying that would in turn lead to the closure of newspapers, which is also clearly expressed in the law's preprocessor. Therefore, it is necessary to have a clear relationship with national and regional levels in this context, also in order to avoid the law imposing unnecessary restrictions on current changes in the industry. Here the law must function according to the intentions, where the national level must be in the main focus. We have quite liberal rules for ownership in this country. We have received that, among other things. Because we see that this will be difficult to regulate in the future, and there is no particular desire to prevent Norwegian media ownership – on the contrary. Now the situation in Norway is, after all, much better than in most other countries we use to compare with. But even if it is, by deciding to legislate the principles of the Editorial plaque, we have taken into account that this can change. The Council of State is now opposed because the Ministry of Justice has assumed that it is likely to be contrary to freedom of expression and will prevent the owners from freely speaking through their own media. I just thought that was the purpose of the proposal, to prevent abuse of power that in turn restricts the freedom of expression of others. Now there are different opinions, even in legal environments, about the relationship with the Constitution. In my opinion, legalisation can also help to strengthen the protection of freedom of expression and freedom of expression. The press and the traditional media have not been a problem here, on the contrary, we have seen that the professionalisation of the owners can work positively for editorial freedom. But there is also a development of new media that have owners who do not have the same starting point and the same basis. That is why the Workers' Party is not prepared today to amend the decision that has been taken, and I expect the Stortinget to receive a message in line with the previous decision. We will soon have the Commission's opinion on the table, and it will provide us with a broader basis for further discussion. And the need to disclose ownership becomes all the more urgent in order to allow media users to independently assess the impact of ownership if the new attitude of the Council of State emerges. The council invited us to a concession announcement on the longwave band. I think it's drawing the content of a media policy statement too far. The situation is not as simple as just lighting out a free frequency. There are unresolved issues of both a political and a technical nature that should be addressed in greater detail. I have registered the position of the Post and Telecommunications Authority, but Norkring has not commented on the technical issues. The relationship with existing concessions on the FM network needs to be clarified and time constraints must be made in line with the vision of the Telecommunications Authority. The relationship with other countries also needs to be clarified. Therefore, I would ask the Council of State to carry out a more thorough investigation before the Stortinget takes a final position on this matter. Film policy was not mentioned by the Council of State. I think it's also right to look at it in a media policy debate. As is known, content is becoming increasingly important when all channels are to be filled with other than reprices and old substances. We've had a positive development over the last few years, where Norwegian films have gradually developed an international position, with which we're counting. As a starting point, there is a need for a review to see if we can contribute to further strengthening this development. I'm familiar with the fact that a consultant report has been prepared that seems to be a little bit of a tool to help us with this. That is why I am concerned if it is to be followed up in small fractions. It is then used so much resources in Norwegian films that the Workers' Party believes it is important to get a more thorough treatment of this field. Finally, I would like to stress that it is important to stick to the political objectives, as the Council of State stated in its statement. But I could have thought of a Council of States that also managed to achieve its objectives through political action.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e120	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e123	The representative Jon Olav Alstad spoke warmly about the press support. The papers that received press support in 1998 had a deficit of about 10 %. 155 million. kr. If the representative Alstad thinks it is right that the five largest recipients should supply approximately. half of the total press support over the small district newspapers which have less opportunities to receive large advertising and advertising revenue and which are in addition more difficult to participate in the rapid development of the country? In addition, we also have a moving current that benefits the big center newspapers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e130	If it is the case that the Progress Party is now willing to join in and discuss the press stand and the device on it, I expect us to be able to find each other when we are going to follow up the investigation that is going on. In that case, it would be a completely new attitude on the part of the Progress Party. The basis for the press support is precisely to try to ensure, first and foremost, local diversity, but also geographical diversity. In this way, the level of press support and its facilities are now adapted to maximise the diversity of the newspapers. What is the situation today is, among other things: that the Progress Party has been involved in shaping the press policy in recent years with quite dramatic cuts in press support. One consequence of that is that it's just the small locals that are struggling heavily for the small sums that for them make up a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e139	The representative, Alstad, began to address the media policy objectives. As far as I am concerned, Mr Alstad and the Minister for Culture do not disagree so much with the cultural policy objectives, nor with the media policy objectives, nor with Mr Alstad and Mr Alstad. I am pleased with Alstad's strong commitment to strengthening the diversity of the media. I really don't think that the big disagreement is at all in the Stortinget. Alstad is one of Storting's most committed media politicians. Now the press support and cut off the press support have become a review theme in much of Alstad's commitment, and several of us regret that we have had to go to a cut of the production support of the newspapers. However, I have also registered that the representative Alstad now wants to fill in again the cut that was made last time. In this regard, I would like to ask him a question from an article in today's Business today that shows that Trygve Hegnar takes out 5 million. kr of the Financial Paper in order to take account of production aid. Does Alstad look at just such a scheme with concern? He was inside the device in his previous reply to Bredvold, and said he was satisfied with it. In view of this statement, I have to ask: how can he defend the device and the model for which the press stand is now sewn together?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e148	We agree on the objectives. It has been the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties for all the years I have at least worked on media policy. We have had a little disagreement about the means to achieve those objectives, although I note that the centre parties in most areas have come after they have ended up in the government offices. I also find it a little strange that the representative regrets the press support cuts, because it actually turns out that these are the result of a misguided policy. When you start to draw out the 5 million to the Financial Newspaper, I can assure the representative from the Christian People's Party that we have created a code that would take into account that the Financial Newspaper would not get press support with the trick they're doing. The situation was exactly the same last year. I was hoping the state media administration would take that fight last year. It was not done, the legal doubt that was raised, that the Financial Newspaper benefited so they got the money, with the result that the situation got even worse for the other newspapers compared to the press support cut that had been carried out. I expect that this year it will be clarified in relation to the Financial Newspaper, and that the state media administration will insist on what is the law, namely that the kind of trickery that the Financial Newspaper carries out is not acceptable in order to obtain press support.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e157	The representative Alstad criticises the Minister for Culture because the media policy statement contained few news, and he also says that the annual reports we have had before came too late in relation to the issues in question. I would like to add that the presentation may now come a little too early because there will be so many investigations in the course of June that will make important advances for media policy in the future, an investigation by the Convergence Committee – on digital TV – and possibly an investigation by the Freedom of Speech Commission. When Alstad criticises that it's little new, it's a little special that he thinks that the news in the presentation kind of preludes the events, among other things. a small case of long- and medium-wave concessions, and that the Minister of Culture now says clearly that she does not want to be legally legally independent. So in a way, a question might ask what Alstad really wants this statement to contain. I thought the debate was going to be about the media developments we're looking forward to, but again Alstad ends up providing a warm defense for the most old-fashioned of all media policy arrangements, namely press support. Then we're back in the slightly retrospective media debate. When Alstad is also concerned that we are going to start discussing the public broadcasting concession, it is based on the assumption that the Stortinget is about to enter and operate political governance. He said it correctly, that concession should be used as a policy instrument, and then I would ask: is Alstad thinking in that context about the detailed regulation of the broadcasting schedule for minority broadcasts, etc., which many in the Storting are concerned about, or is there any other thing he is thinking about?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e166	I gradually understand why the Right provides such a strong defense to the Council of State. They have now had an impact on their media policy that they have never been able to get in the last 10-15 years. The representative of Greece said that we are going against the few news that, after all, were in the presentation, but I don't think it's any news to go back to what was the status quo. We dealt with a ownership message a few years ago, and then we made a regime for ownership in the media. The lawfulness of editorial independence and disclosure obligations were two very key elements of the strategy that was devised at the time. When you still have an intention of political governance in the media, it becomes a little weird to go against just the two elements. The press support is not old-fashioned at all, as the representative tried to give the impression. On the contrary, it is one of the most effective tools we have to preserve diversity and thereby achieve press policy objectives. We've done a lot of research on it over time, at the latest a few years ago, which concludes with exactly the same thing. The representative is then concerned with the question of concession as a political means of governance. There has always been the main difference between the civil parties on the right and the centre and the Workers' Party that we wanted to use the concessions as a management tool, among other things. as a main instrument to ensure that commercial channels are also based on the principles behind public broadcasting. So it has been, and this is how the Workers' Party hopes that it will be in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e179	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e183	The Progress Party is of the opinion that there has been a positive development in the media sector in recent years. New actors have contributed to the creation of a diversity that ensures both freedom of choice for the population and differences of opinion between media enterprises. The media are important. The media is the main communication channel for information in our society. It's also one of the most important cornerstones of our society. Society and media businesses live in a relationship of interdependence. Societies depend on media communication on what happens in society, and the media depend on the actors in society who contribute to creating the news on which the media depend. For this reason, it is important to ensure that there is a clear independence between the media and those setting the framework conditions for media activities. Developments in the media sector have contributed in recent years to a reduction in the involvement of authorities in the media than it was when there was only one public broadcaster. In the view of the Progress Party, the main task of the authorities in the years to come is to develop this in such a way as to give the media greater freedom and to build up their ties with one of the largest media actors, so that no questions can be asked about the independence of the individual media. For the Progress Party, a free and independent press is a prerequisite for democracy and freedom of expression. A newspaper is not independent if it is dependent on State aid. As newspapers become more and more dependent on State aid, independent journalism will be able to give rise to attempts at enterprise policy in order to ensure more support. In this context, media businesses will try to appease those politicians who want to ensure continued press support. Such considerations may also affect journalism. Due to state subsidies to the press, there is a great danger that its critical attitude towards the government will be subdued. This could jeopardize democracy and could result in the media becoming under-objective in their political judgements. The promotion party therefore wants the production grant of the press support to be phased out in its entirety, so that we do not have an unfortunate link between the press and the authorities. On the other hand, the Progress Party wishes to continue to provide grants for media research and continuing training, grants for various publications and distribution grants to the newspapers in Finnmark. It is also very interesting to see which newspapers and to what extent the production grant, the so-called press subsidy, is distributed. Six large newspapers supply approx. half of this support, and this can be said to be deeply unfair to those who do not. It is valuable for society that there is a pattern of free and independent local, regional and nationwide newspapers. This should be sought as far as possible through competition in an open market, where the press receives its income from newspaper readers’ purchases and advertising. The removal of the production grant is likely to result in the closure of some newspapers, but this will, on the other hand, be able to force an innovation that will make it possible for several of the victims to be able to do so. The fact that some newspapers and publications have to go in may also open up to new ones who want to establish themselves. Therefore, the Progress Party does not share the Government’s view that the press support is very important for the conditions of competition in the newspapers. My question to the representative Alstad was what the Workers' Party would do, not what the representative wants the Progress Party to do. It is clear that the Progress Party will remove this support, so I must disappoint those who want the Advance Party's support for this scheme. The newspapers today have tax exemptions. This is an advantage that helps to strengthen the economy of the papers in relation to, for example: leaves of the week which do not have such an exemption. Here it might be useful to compare, for example. The newspaper VG and some weekly magazines, like See and Hear, to see what's really the big difference. In Norway, we have a long experience of the time when we had public broadcasters, asking questions about the independence of the media in relation to public authorities. For this reason, all public ownership of media establishments must be abolished as soon as possible. Therefore, it is likely that the NRK should be privatised as soon as possible. The NRK licence also helps to create imbalances in the media market. It must be appropriate to ask questions as to whether it is appropriate for a media operator to be sure to recover its revenue as a tax on the ownership of a television set and not its use. There is a huge dissatisfaction among people with this system, and the view of the Progress Party is that it will be a major disadvantage for the NRC to maintain this system in the future. The public funding of the NRC will also help to ensure that a necessary efficiency process of the NRC is not initiated quickly and as efficiently as possible. This will make the process even more painful on the day the compulsory license falls off. As mentioned earlier, media companies such as TV2 and P4 have fed Norwegian society a lot in the relatively short time they have existed. The Progress Party will take a great deal of distance from the threats posed by some parts of the political team that it is not certain that the concessions will be renewed if no specific requirements are met. The Progress Party does not agree with the criticism made by the General Broadcasting Council on the TV2 programme profile. TV 2 has become a significant and important player in the Norwegian media landscape. TV 2 has been successful in offering a high-quality television offer to the wide range of the population and has become a real competitor to the NRK – in fact, so large that it has had more viewers than NRK on some programmes. TV 2 has helped to ensure the diversity of opinion in the country. This is important. Where possible, the public contribution should contribute to the establishment of multiple offers in the ether in order to further enhance diversity. In the future, public broadcasters must be given great freedom in how to develop their activities for the benefit of their audience. Regulatory and transparent concession terms are necessarily not the way to go. The rapid development of the IT sector and the forthcoming digitisation will result in a doubling of the future broadcasting offer. The Progress Party welcomes such developments, as this will result in a much wider choice of the country’s inhabitants. In addition, such developments will result in greater competition on this market. This is positive, and this will result in a stronger customer focus, so that it gets better and better. This ensures freedom of speech and choice. There are still major challenges in the media sectors. Many of these have been mentioned in this article. It is important that public authorities are involved in ensuring that we have a free and independent press and that it has a framework that allows it to cope without public subsidies. The freedom of media companies to design their own profile is an important keyword in this context. Otherwise, the Progress Party wants to praise all the local radios and local televisions that with a very big effort are able to entertain and inform very many of the Norwegian population. Often a local radio is also the only contact that individuals, especially older ones, have with society. Here people get local and international news and entertainment and can otherwise call in and perhaps also contribute a little self-interest in the radio when there are activities they can participate in. It's important that we have this kind of media that can take care of the small, but important events that the big ones can't. In this way, they complement each other. It is therefore a very bad thing to, for example,. the Radiobingo Act must be able to exempt certain local radios from this possibility of income. The same principle will apply when the issue of political advertising and life-view advertising is adopted, if these two are not equal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e217	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e220	It is of such interest that, in the context of the TV 2 concession, the Progress Party chooses to set the market aside and only grants concessions like this over the table of the post here, while the press support is not based on the same principles. It is precisely the market that is much of the reason for the press support, too, where point. The 1s always run away with the ads. We've tried to compensate for the number. The 2 papers with some of the things that the market can't do, and that's why we're ensuring diversity. But I see no sense in going into any political polemics with the Progress Party on the press support. I see that as a waste of time, even though the VAT exemption signal may not be so clear again. That's some kind of press support, too. What surprised me and almost shocked me, on the other hand, was the claim of the Progress Party that state subsidies to the press are to be seen as a democratic problem. Does the representative believe that today the press is being controlled by the press support? Is that what you think? In this case, what kind of papers are there that can be controlled that way?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e227	The Progress Party wants freedom and independence both for the press and for those who otherwise contribute news. We believe that the market should regulate this. The market will focus on what viewers want to buy and pay to get news and other entertainment. The party to the progress is of the opinion that subsidising individuals over others is discriminatory and that those who will receive this subsidisation may have an extra good eye on those who provide this kind of support. In this way, the Progress Party believes that such subsidisation in the form of press support will affect some of the things that are written.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e234	The Progress Party is usually concerned with the freedom of the market, including media policy, and not least, I have understood, also in terms of diversity and the ability to express myself. The Minister of Culture was at a point in his statement about publishing an open frequency on the long-wave band. There are few of us who have heard about it in a long time, because that's something that might seem to belong to the past. But the fact is that there has been a new interest in these AM frequencies, not least America and also other countries have focused attention on them, and a new technology has been developed that will be able to exploit this, and there is an interest in applying for concession. I just want to ask the representative, Mr. Bredvold, if he also agrees that the Department and Government are now publishing this frequency, so that those who are interested can apply for permission to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e243	The representative had in his reply an introduction that was that the Progress Party wants a relatively free market in this area, and that is quite correct. As regards the concession, the Progress Party does not object to its disclosure. Those who want to search can do it. We will support that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e250	The Progress Party and the representative Bredvold had a review of media policy where the market was supposed to be governed. Of course, the right is far on the way to agree with that. But the question of the Progress Party is: What does the Advance Party put in the general broadcasting concept? And does the Progress Party see any need for the concept of public broadcasting to be taken care of and to continue? Is there any kind of leadership from the Progress Party on what a general broadcaster is and should be? Or is it quite up to the individual broadcaster to evaluate this for himself? In other words, should the Stortinge have any opinion on the overall objectives of media policy in the field of broadcasting? So a question related to Bredvold's posts regarding the NRK, where he opens to remove the license. Then the question is: how does the Progress Party want the NRK to be organised in the future? Is it going to be a NRK still? Is that supposed to be a private NRK? Should the NRK be subject to concessional treatment, such as the other competitors in general broadcasting concessions? It would be interesting to get an answer to some of the thinking about this and how the Progress Party sees the role of the NRK, if it's going to have someone at all, in the years ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e257	The NRK has had a monopoly situation for many years. Fortunately, there have been major changes in recent times. This may also have been part of and contributed to the Progress Party. I think it is a great pleasure out there among the Norwegian people that they have more than one TV channel to watch and more than one radio channel to listen to. I think this creates a certain competition to have as good programs as possible, so that you also get the maximum number of listeners and the maximum number of viewers possible. Such competition will, of course, once again contribute to improving programme quality. In the case of NRK, we like to have NRK, but it has to compete on equal terms with everyone else who wants to join. Thus, the market and demand in the market will determine the development of the NRC. The license has to go away. The NRK needs to be reorganised and aligned according to the conditions that others need. In the case of public broadcasters, we can make a little concrete and go on local radio, local TV and stuff like that: the Progress Party will, of course, support development, and we have also been a driving force there. We believe that there should be a free market, so that those who want it will be allowed to use it, and those who have something to offer will also be allowed to offer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e266	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e269	The Minister for Culture has given a good account of important challenges in today’s media society. The media image is in rapid transformation, not least because of technological developments and the storms that eventually hit many of the traditional media forms, and the fact that commercial forces are attaching an increasingly strong grip on media development. As politicians, we often feel that we have difficulty hanging out, because the changes are coming so quickly. Nevertheless, it is necessary to make efforts to find good political governance, which the Christian People's Party will contribute to. This is, to the most extent, an area where we can't afford to let the coincidences prevail. We therefore look forward to having a debate on the Convergence Committee's position when it is soon available. The same applies to the broadcast message on the digitalisation of television, which is right around the corner, as well as the Commission’s investigation of freedom of expression. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the media should not only reflect society on good and bad, but also contribute to spiritual and cultural maturity. Also, as underlined by the Council of State, the media plays an important role in cultural policy, not least by promoting quality and versatility. This versatility shall be enriched by a number of important dimensions — political, cultural, life-seeking, topical, geographical, etc. An offensive media policy is more necessary than ever in order to ensure the media’s framework conditions that can contribute to the preservation of this diversity and to counter harmonisation. The Minister of Culture also pointed to several concrete measures in this respect. It is necessary in time to strengthen public broadcasting, both by ensuring the NRC's ability to compete in an increasingly international market, and also by providing other actors with liberal but guiding concession conditions. We note with satisfaction that the TV 2 programme profile has developed in a positive direction, towards greater breadth, and it is also important to note the constructive and necessary ‘watchtower’ function. An important signal in the Minister of Culture's presentation, which will probably be received positively, especially among the independent broadcasters, is that the NRK intends to sell itself entirely out of Norkring, so that Norkring can have a more independent position. Local broadcasting should also call for our media policy attention. Very many local players, both in radio and TV, face financial problems. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is important that public authorities which have granted concessions to the many companies outside the country also take the responsibility of this and ensure that both local radio and television can be operated throughout the country. Both in the context of the transition to digital technology and in the renewal of concession agreements vis-à-vis national actors, it is also necessary to consider the situation of local media. It should be considered in the direction of a review of the framework conditions of local media in response to the changes that are taking place. Then I regret the situation that has arisen from the recent local television offer in the Oslo area being significantly weakened. The extraction process that has followed in the wake of the closure of the News Channel has not only contributed to the weakening of the offer but also to the closing of the opportunities for other interested actors in the area who might want to escape. However, it is positive that the interest in so-called AM broadcasting is kept alive, and that the Government is taking steps to light up a free frequency on the analogue longwave band. The newspapers represent the very backbone of the Norwegian media community. The selection of the Christian People's Party proposed to carry out a review of the framework conditions of the newspapers is ahead of an important job. There is reason to follow the work of the sample with excitement, and there is hope that the discussion that will come can help to consolidate not only the position of the Norwegian people as the world's most newsreading people, but also the qualitative and geographical diversity that characterises the Norwegian newspaper image. In this context, it is also important to look at the framework conditions of the newspapers in the light of the new media image. They cut off the press support that has been in place for the last two years and have caused concerns in many newspapers. It is understandable, and this necessitated a comprehensive review of the framework conditions. And with the evolution we see through Internet technology, with a gradual deletion of the boundaries between the different media, it is not least necessary to have a broad – I stress a broad – perspective on the forthcoming debate. It's my hope that the selection, which is to be led by Hallvard Hill, also sees this. I think that will benefit the situation for the written word.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e290	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e294	The representative Lånke noted that good governance and good instruments were important when it comes to media policy, and I fully agree with him. But sometimes it costs money, and I have to say that I do not look so much forward to discussing this, but I look much rather forward to ensuring, through money use, the media good framework conditions. That is why I challenge Lånka to look closely at the draft revised budget that comes from the Labour Party, where he is given the opportunity to show his good will by supporting 25 million. Precisely to good instruments, namely press support. I see a small conflict in the government, because what Mr. Lånke says is that local broadcasting is struggling financially, and it is important to look at their framework conditions. This is an old Christian People's Party position, which the Center Party also stood for when they were in opposition here in the Stortinget. It was actually such that it was assessed to contribute money to direct support for local broadcasters. But then the Council of State said in its statement: ‘It is not relevant for the Government to extend or introduce new local broadcasting economic instruments in addition to the subsidies granted through the Audiovisual Production Fund.’; Then I have to ask Lånke: is it such that the government of which his party is a member will go in to give money, direct support for local broadcasting, or is this just a blow in the air, on which one has not managed to bring the government?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e306	The representative of Fossum takes up two things. One is the Labour Party's proposal in the context of the revised national budget. Now it's not our committee that deals with the revised budget, and the revised budget is not a new budgetary procedure either, so I guess we haven't so much opportunity to go in and do anything at the moment. I have registered the Workers' Party's play and noted it with interest, but so far there has not been any particular speed in the budgetary procedure, so it is difficult to advance something in view of this. With regard to local programming, which Grethe G. Fossum is concerned about, I note with interest that the representative Fossum mentions this with direct financial support for local programming. I am aware that some local broadcasting organisations have wanted the press support to be extended to include so-called media support. I have expressed some skepticism about this, because even if we wish that we could be granted directly to these organizations, I think it might be undermined, not least for tactical reasons, by the press support system itself. That's why I'm critical of it, and I've registered that the Minister of Culture says it's not relevant with new economic instruments. I agree with that. And that's not what I said in my post. What I pointed out was the possibilities to review the overall framework conditions. They include far more than direct support, and I believe that when we review the framework conditions of the newspapers now, it is also important that we look at the situation of local programming in the light of the new developments in the media, not least the transition to digitisation and the possibilities for perhaps integrating the local media into national channels.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e316	I was a little confused by both Lånker's first post and his reply to the representative Fossum, because what Lånker said in his post, as far as I can remember, was that now there was a press support committee set up, we had a emergence of new media like the Internet, etc. I stress that we need to look widely at the work to be done in this sample, said the representative Lånker. Does this mean that the representative Lånke also wants to include Internet newspapers in the press support system, even in the light of what he said about local media – i.e. local radio, local TV? Does he wish to extend the arrangements? Can we get a clear answer to that? Then we all know that the representative Lånke may be one of the biggest and most committed defenders of cultural life in Norway, not least opera and other forms of music and culture. Councillor Lahnstein said last fall, when the cut in the press stand was a fact and she herself had made the choice to cut in the press stand, that for her it was more important to support the theatre and music life in Norway. If you were to choose a cut first, she would rather take it on the press stand – and take everything there. It was more important to take care of cultural activities. Does the representative borrow this opinion from the Council of State? Will the representative Lånke continue to choose between supporting cultural life in Norway and supporting newspapers in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e325	First to the press support committee – which I partially responded to in my reply to the representative Fossum. What I mean by a broad perspective, is primarily about the situation of the papers, and the situation that we now hardly see any boundary between the written word and the way in which the media work. Journalists are about to use video cameras — someone has started it, and it shows that we are in a new era. At the same time, we also have to involve the other media in this perspective. This does not mean that I am saying that we should neither provide press support nor media support for Internet newspapers or local radio and television. We'll have to wait to discuss this more closely until we get the selection conclusion. In the case of the cut in the press support set up against cultural appropriations, it is first of all a hopeless problematization to set the two things up against each other, for both are considered very necessary and important. However, in a budgetary situation, such choices sometimes have to be made, and I wholeheartedly support the Minister of Culture in the statements she has made in that context. This was a necessity at that time. I believe that both the Minister of Culture and I can stress that we want to strengthen the framework conditions of the newspapers and not least their economic basis further – if necessary with a financial transfer in a magnitude of what we have today. Of course, it is also necessary to consider whether there are other instruments that can be used. When the representative of Greece suggests that this should go to the newspaper houses, I must say that it is not our intention. This support is to be given in the first place to the most disadvantaged localities, the relevant national newspapers and Nos. The 2 newspapers, which will try to create competition around Norwegian regions, will benefit. That's the first one. And to the extent that it also comes to rich newspaper houses, we are interested in trying to control and regulate it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e334	I will not fall for the temptation to follow up the press support discussion. I'm just recording that there's one thing said, while something else is happening. On the other hand, I noted with interest the commitment of the representative Lånke to one of the things we spent the most time on, both in the department and in the Stortinget, namely local broadcasting. There we've put in place a local TV regime that seems to evolve quite well. The level is a completely different one than it was just a few years ago. The Christian People's Party went against the improvements that came, but fortunately it did not get a majority there. On the other hand, when it came to radio, they were given a majority to avoid making the improvements that were investigated and that were proposed. It's been quite a few years. I think it's a little strange that there's now new demands to have a full review of this sector, when it's only two to three years since we completed it last. One of the best ways to do this. Today, in order to strengthen the proximity radio, there is the possibility to operate bingo activities. I want to challenge the Christian People's Party on what you intend to do in that matter. We know that the lottery law is coming in a relatively short time. It will be quite crucial for very many of our local radios around. What will the Christian People's Party do there?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e343	To my commitment to a review of the framework conditions of local programming: I wasn't present in the committee three years ago, when this was done the last time, and I guess I can't accept what happened then. But the fact is, evolution is going at the speed of lightning in this area. What was or was not relevant two, three or four years ago may be very topical in a year or two. I made no claim that a review should be carried out now, but said that we should look towards it. It's just because I think things evolve very quickly in this area as well. Many in local broadcasting fear the future and the situation in which they come, not least when the new technology is put into operation. That's the background for me taking this up now. In the case of radiobingo, it is right, as the representative Alstad says, that this is updated in the context of the review of the Lottery Act. We have also had a discussion about this this year in the context of an episode in North Norway, such as this one. has led to some debate. The situation really applies to how the law is to be applied, and it is clear that there is a need here to carefully consider how the Lottery Act should be applied in the future. I don't want to shoot anything about it until I see what's coming, and how it's supposed to be done. So I can't say anything more about it now, other than that we get to come back to. I'm at least willing to contribute to making sure that the local radios that are interested in operating radio bingo can do so on the basis of conditions that we believe are reasonable, not least the radios that are associated with non-profit organisations and voluntary work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e350	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e353	The media world is changing rapidly. New media are melting with old ones. The information flow is enormous, and border is no longer an obstacle to information flows. The size has to take many decisions leading to media development in Norway in the years to come, but the market, both Norwegian and international, will make many more choices that will affect the same trend. The emergence of the world's largest anarchist medium, the Internet, is an example of this. In a few years, the use of and access to the Internet has exploded, from a network for professors and academics to a network for Ola and Kari. At the same time, technological developments have made convergence a concept of media interest. Convergence, or the merging of different media, offers enormous opportunities and presents politicians with new challenges. The digitisation of radio and TV is one of these challenges. We are now eagerly awaiting the big message about the digitalisation of television that the Right Party and the Workers' Party asked for half a year and a half ago. Digital television provides opportunities for multiple channels, interactive possibilities and more active use of television as an information channel. However, digital development also opens up the possibility of giant technoblunders, or investment errors in the billions class. When we get the digital message, it becomes very important to bet on the right horse, to make sure that the investments made by the public have sustainability and lifetime as much as possible. What do I mean by this? Yes, the standards for digital television signals have not been defined. This requires common standards in Europe. We also need to examine the possibilities of using different distribution networks. It would be very unwise to make double investments and not look at the role of private actors in these developments. It is also necessary to clarify the duration of parallel transmission of analogue and digital signals. Another important media policy option will be to allocate responsibility for the so-called multiplexes that become important management tools for whom to send and how many channels to send. I assume that the Government's digital message will provide answers to these questions. On the radio side, you've come further. The Digital Background Development Agreement has been concluded. Already next year, a coverage of 60 pst is expected. There's only one catch at all: digital radio receivers are still very expensive, and it's probably just a few enthusiasts who want to spend five-digit amounts on new radio. However, I expect prices to fall as the offer increases. The applications for a concession for a new nationwide digital radio channel are now being finalised by the Staten media administration. To the extent technically possible, it should not stop with a nationwide concession. Several actors should be given the opportunity later. At the other end of the technological scale, it is interesting to note that there are now private stakeholders interested in broadcasting on a long- and medium-wave basis. On the right, the Minister of Culture will support the opening of the application for a concession to this effect. Although it is fascinating to talk about the technological possibilities of the ether medium, we must not forget that a small language society like Norway also has important cultural policy obligations to fulfil. Media development will continue to breed with undiminished speed. The need to fence around Norwegian language and culture will increase. Public broadcasting plays a crucial role in this regard. Cultural diversity and diversity continue to need to be stimulated. In my opinion, the public broadcasters are now doing this in a good way. Fortunately, the demand for policy detail management of programme content and policy has been weakened here in the United Kingdom in recent years. It's not our job to control this. Our task must be to set some overall objectives for the public broadcasters, not to run editorial overrides. Local radio and local television are important parts of the overall media image. The Minister of Culture offers this only a few lines in his presentation. I agree with her that new support schemes should not be introduced for these media, but I disagree that newspapers should be given competitive advantage in the form of press support and state advertising. The framework conditions should be equally good. That is, they should be able to stand on their own feet, not depending on state transfers. The newly-appointed Press Support Committee has a number of right-wing expectations. With a former Minister of Culture who has always been a hot champion of government governance and transfers, there is little reason to expect great surprises, but of course we're going to give the selection a chance. Another selection that the Minister of Culture does not mention in his list of samples that are in turn, and issues to be investigated, is the Freedom of Speech Commission. The right-hand side had seen that the matter of political advertising and life-view advertising, which had just been issued, had been postponed after this one had come to an end. It didn't have time for the majority to wait. In any case, it should be interesting to have a thorough assessment of the extent to which the protection of freedom of expression of the Constitution should go on the threshold of a new millennium. This debate raises more questions than it answers. During the summer we will get more investigations and cases on the table that will give us the opportunity to give some more answers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e384	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e387	Let me start by saying that I think there actually has been a raise in Right Media Policy in the current period, and the representative would like to take it up. Among other things, it's quite fascinating to listen when the representative from the Right is talking about political governance, because it's not that the Right is opposed to political governance, but you want, in the same way as the rest of us, to run some sort of target management. So this artificial distinction between who wants political governance, and who does not want political governance, probably does not go between the Right and the other parties on the Stortinget. That's enough to the right of the right you have to look in that way. What's interesting about the Right is that every time they discuss the press support, they list two of the three main instruments we have in the press support policy, namely the press support and the ads. Time and again, in this period, as in the previous period, one word about the exemption from VAT, which may be an even more unfair arrangement than the other two. So I want to challenge the representative a little bit about it, why the Right never talks about the VAT exemption, both the exemption from the entry fee and the exemption from the exit tax. The representative pointed out that the market will make many more choices in the future in relation to what politicians will do. Let me challenge Right on how you want to put in place a strategy to take care of Norwegian language and culture in that context, because there are two essential elements in the Right's cultural policy for the rest. I expect that you are also concerned about media policy. So it could be interesting to discuss a little more how to design standards in the field of digitalisation – whether there should be open solutions or whether we should let the market control and thus get closed solutions. Is right willing to be in charge, so that we get as open a solution in that area as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e399	The term ‘riksväg 1’ is well-reserved fast route, but in the case of future infrastructure in Norway, we in the Right have been quite clear that connecting the country, IT cable, broadcasting cable – possibly in the same cable, we do not yet know – is a priority task. So when Alstad is concerned about what Right wants in this area, I would say that we want to cooperate between the commercial networks that will be available in large parts of the country, but the public also has a responsibility that everyone will have an opportunity to participate in the digital revolution. How this is to be done, I don't know, but I think the Minister of Culture is so much concerned with good ideas in the presentation, where she says we have to look at different distribution networks and see them in context. It could be an interesting starting point. I think it would be wrong to bet all the cards on one horse. But the important thing is that we have the goal clearly, that everyone should have access to it. Alstad talks about the Right now being concerned with political governance, in line with most others. What I tried to say in my post is that we have some overall objectives for media policy. And when we talk about e.g. The NRK, a licensed company, is clear that the NRK must have some obligations. We are willing to share those commitments and discuss them. But what we're not willing to discuss and go into detail – as opposed to not especially Alstad, but some others – is what the individual, TV 2 or P4 should send, how many hours of Sami they should have, how many hours of children's programmes they should have, etc. There has to be some overall goal that we have to set, and they have to be followed up, I agree, but going in detail, it's going to be wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e408	The representative Alstad addressed many issues in his article, and he also raised a number of questions without giving any specific answer to these questions. What he really said was that he met the investigations that were coming, and the answers that might be given there. Now there are some difficult words that are used in this context, and one of those that Alstad was inside is the multiplexes, or the "muchs," which you also call it – and eventually it's gone around our heads a little bit – and he said, "Who is going to watch these multiplexes?" Another question that he also raised was: how long should the transition phase from analogue to digital transmissions be, and how long do people have to keep the receivers? I'm not waiting for any specific or clear answers to this, but I can imagine asking if the representative Alstad, since he explicitly mentions this, has made some thoughts, for example. on the identity of the custodian, the duration of the transition phase and how to finance this transition phase, if any.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e417	The President assumes that the replicant meant the representative of Greece and not the representative of Alstad. The president didn't intervene because he assumed you understood it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e420	It was late yesterday because of the release of the setting about the opera, so I admit that Lånk four times called me the representative Alstad. But maybe it wasn't that bad, it was! The question asked by Mr Lånker is: how long will the transitional period be? I hope that the Minister of Culture and the Digital Message will give us an answer. But I want to say that if we decide to go in for a digitization, I think it would be unwise to let this question hover for too long. It will be very expensive, and it will not give the necessary impetus to the market for the renewal of the receiving equipment. It's perhaps close to comparing with California, where you've set a deadline for when the petrol cars are going to be out of service and you're going to go to other types of vehicle – without me locking myself to it. We'll have to wait for the digital message to arrive. So there's a question about the multiples -- and then we're starting to become technical. But in my view, it is actually one of the most important tools in the future media development. It's a server or a box that controls the frequency distribution, and that, if a party has control over it, can be used to keep the competitors out. I assume that the government, when it now discusses this, will look at the possibility of multiple multiplexes, so that one gets one multiplex that the NRK might have parts of the responsibility for, one for the commercial and one for the third for something else. But this remains to be seen, and I'm not going to publish to be an expert on this, so I'm waiting for the digital message that's coming, with great excitement. But I think it's going to be important for us in the Great Britain's Culture Committee simply to spend a lot of time on this to get us into it properly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e431	The representative of Greece has trusted the press support selection, and not with Hallvard Hill as a leader, which is very much for government transfers and support, according to Greece's opinion. Now, this selection will look at all support and assistance measures in their entirety, ranging from VAT to press support, ads and postage. You should consider how to correct this against those who need it the most. One has been in the Financial Newspaper before today, and I assume that one will also include such things in this selection. I wonder that Greece is so afraid of local authority support. Does the representative of Greece not believe in a lack of press? Does the representative of Greece not believe in access and cohesion, which the locals share in creating? And doesn't Right see that just such measures can keep local viewers going, because there isn't always so much to do?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e440	I have great faith in diversity, and I have great faith in diversity without subsidies, and so do we in this country. I have grown up in a part of Buskerud, in Hallingdal, where we have an excellent locality who has never received a penny in the press stand, and who is doing well without it. The problem is—it may not be a problem, but at least it turns out that a lot of localities have a circulation that is exactly in proportion to the limit of support they have, without developing at all over the year. I think the press support seems conservative. It ensures that newspapers operate according to the arrangements in place. It was not least that we noticed in the autumn when the Senter Party and the Minister for Culture made it clear that it was more important to prioritise cultural policy than the press support policy. So the Center Party is going to have a favor for those who made the right choice, in my opinion. Then the centre party said very clearly that they want to give priority to theatre, art and culture over the press and the press support. I must say I respect that choice. It might have been a little bit surprising that it came from the Center Party, but I think in a lot of ways that it expresses a very nice tone in relation to what's most important on the cultural budget, from the Central Party. And it's a priority that Right supports, so I don't quite understand why Unn Aarrestad is so concerned about asking Right about this, when they really agree with the same priorities. In fact, the Central Party will continue to stand on the press as a principle, but when it comes to the harsh realities, the Senter Party has said very clearly that they want to reduce press support in favour of cultural action. And that's a good priority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e447	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e450	I want to start with some of the discussions that are going on outside this house. There have been many debates about criminal journalism lately. That debate shows how incredibly important the power of the media is at both good and bad. When power is abused, when powerless individuals are invaded and human lives are trampled on, there must be some warning lights. “Help, give me life back,” says artist Eva Dahlgren in Sweden, after being invaded and exploited for one purpose: sell more rejects. She asks if the freedom of expression is for the family that owns the newspapers and earns money on her notice. Here in Norway, a grieving sister starts a debate on the behaviour of journalists and methods of dealing with relatives. The debate on the methods used to obtain images and information, and what is printed in the name of the obligation to provide information, must be taken seriously by the fourth state power, and we must also discuss that. And someone's discussing it -- also in the press. Erling Kjekstad in Nations writes: ‘What we have to save is the lesson that so easily transforms sales figures into principles: that the public is so passionately interested and that the press’s obligation to provide information is so enormous! Then, as one forgets, the press can also create the art of creating needs. The media is constantly irritating our binocularity by showing us the keyhole we barely existed. Come here; buy and look!" he concludes. And here we are at the heart of what the Council of State painted up as one of the major challenges of media policy: the increasing commercialisation. Large parts of the media are corporations that are going to make money, with owners that join and breathe the editorial work in the back of their necks with demands for a bigger profit. At the same time, the media body for the free word, and a very important body for the free word, and conveying cultural diversity, is one of the pillars of the democratic system. When the idea, the free word and the dissemination of cultural diversity become increasingly competitive with the business interests of the media, it is a threat to democracy. So what should we as politicians do? Just as little as interests are supposed to be able to do so, we need to be able to go in and give leadership that limits diversity. But as representatives of the people, we have to say that the media have a cultural and ethical responsibility, a responsibility to disseminate knowledge about the world around us in a way that can give people a chance to ask critical questions. Where was the commitment – the critical look – when the war strategy in Yugoslavia was laid?, Dag Kullerud asked in Dagbladet. Media must not fail its mission as critics, even of what exists. But as politicians, we must be primarily defenders of what makes it possible to establish free media as the pillars of democracy, which promotes the democratic and critical debate, which conveys multicultural diversity and at the same time strengthens Norwegian language in an increasingly international world. The Council of State well outlined the debates we are going to have on the challenges of convergence and digitisation. But in my opinion, she did not provide an answer to how the tools for the media policy objectives, which she also outlined, can be met. While she's setting up a daily press committee to prevent newspaper death, she lets the Right Party and the Advance Party, those who want more market into the media, manage cutbacks on the press. The paradox is that there is actually a majority in the Storing that will limit market power. Therefore, SV is sending a strong challenge to the Government to increase the press support to 1997 levels in the next year’s government budget — and that is also what we are putting into the revised national budget. We also ask the Government to provide legal editorial independence. The proposal to which the Council of State refers is based on the Editorial plaque. It gives the owner/editor a mandate to direct editorial activities within the framework of the fundamental vision. The lawmaking of editorial independence will mean most, in my opinion, in the newspapers where you just have hungry owners who breathe you into the neck and will control the evolution. We don't have much of this in Norway yet, but that's some of what we can see the development of. In the investigation, the Council of State said that she should clarify the concession with TV 2. That's good. But then we want the government to have considered in advance the imposition of a concession fee on advertising-funded public broadcasters. This concession fee should be paid to the media and for film purposes. Among other things, TV 2 has been given a very great privilege through the concession they have, and several countries have imposed a concession fee, and the experience from this needs to be gained. I am promoting the proposals that have been distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e482	Ågot Valle has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e487	The representative, Valle, has presented three proposals. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests legal editorial independence.’ The Progress Party also believes that independence is important. We agree with Mr Valle. But the question is, how should this be sorted out and evaluated? It's going to be a lot of beauty here. The Progress Party believes that this is going to be impossible, and for that reason we will vote against the proposal. But it would be interesting to hear how the representative from SV thinks she will be able to control this and possibly judge by such a law, and how the editor who is violating it should deal with it. I think it seems a little unclear. As the representative only had five minutes to his post, I give her the opportunity to elaborate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e497	I didn't expect the Progress Party – which is a member of major media market power – to go in to legislate editorial independence. The background for this is – as I explained – that we have a development in which we get larger and larger owner concentrations, and owners who breathe the editorials in their necks to get more profit. Then there is a risk that there may be a requirement for a look-up, especially on the front page, which means that the newspaper, or the media, sells better, and can therefore also obtain more advertising. We believe that it can help limit the critical debate and the broad information that I know the editors would like to convey. As far as the design of such a law is concerned, it is clear that I cannot deal with detailed regulation in that respect, it must be up to the ministry to do. The Ministry has, as the Council of State explained, made its assessment. She also says that there is disagreement in the legal environment, and I want her to listen to the lawyers who say that lawmaking editorial independence can be a wise idea. This will in particular mean something for those newspapers that have owners who primarily want to profit from the investments they have made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e505	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e508	Technological development, internationalisation and commercialisation are leading to major challenges in the media sector. New challenges need to be met with adapted instruments. But there is no contradiction between sticking to the main objectives of media policy and being up-to-date with the challenges involved. The Minister of Culture's media policy statement shows that the government's policy is in line with this balance. I have noticed that some of the opposition parties believe that the statement lacked the long lines and the big news. It is a criticism that is unfounded. The representative of Alstad’s speech today also shows that the Labour Party’s policy has not been permeated by long-term thinking and the great news. Of course, in a ten-minute post, it is limited how much Alstad is able to present by the Labour Party's policy, when the main concern seems to be to come up with false criticism of the Government's media policy. In my article it is only possible to comment on some of the aspects that were addressed in this presentation. I want to focus on some elements related to the press policy. The left wants to maintain the press support, but we think there is a need for change. It is therefore positive that a sample work is now under way in this area. The left agrees with the Minister of Culture that the framework conditions for the press must be as stable as possible until the selection setting is available. It would be illogical and pointless to make significant changes while waiting for the board of directors. But, as I said, there may be a need for change. It is the outcome of today’s press support scheme that does not ensure optimal use of the funds in relation to the purpose of the scheme. This gives us a good opportunity to discuss in the cool water of the selection setting that comes. There is reason to be satisfied that many newspapers are able to maintain — and in some areas actually strengthen — their strong position, despite the predictions that other media will take over more and more at the expense of the newspapers. These include: reason for rejoicing that many of the smallest newspapers increase the circulation. New newspapers are also being launched in communities that have not had their own locality. From a perspective, it's positive. For example, in a time of relocation in a large number of municipalities, local authorities are an important resource. In the view of the Left, the smallest newspapers should receive a greater share of the press support. For example, for many of these newspapers: 100 000 SEK change significantly under the framework conditions they have for their daily work, and thus be significant. Such contributions to e.g.: 100 different newspapers amount to 10 million. kr, a small part of the total amount of press support, but not more than that supported, for example, by one of the medium-sized newspapers. Press policy is more than press support. Transparency affects the ability of the press to do their job. Here, the government we now have, both through greater transparency in the departments and in the administration, has made important contributions in practice. In addition, it has provided for a legal adjustment that will increase transparency in the work of the administration. The condition of freedom of expression is also important. We need the debate that took place in the wake of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. In recent years, in a number of areas, there has been a significant change in the status of freedom of expression in total. These issues are too little awareness and commitment around. It makes it possible to fall into error, as the majority of the population, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, in the opinion of the Left, did when they adopted the ban on the identification of suspects with names and images. It is positive that there is now an increased interest in some of the self-imposed restrictions affecting news communication and the formation of opinions in the press. It's a cross of thought that in periods we are without fresh papers for many days. Some reflections can be made on how the newspapers would have reacted if it were the authorities that left the restrictions, not the newspapers and their employees. Now there should be a change at this point. SV has made a proposal to legislate on editorial freedom. The left takes note that the Government believes that such a law can be unconstitutional. This issue should be clarified in the wake of the suspension of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. It will serve that debate on the SV's proposals will not be dealt with in reality and, if necessary, downgraded. With regard to the SV's proposal for a concession fee, Terje Johansen has addressed the same question to the Minister of Culture, who confirms that this issue could be considered in the context of the forthcoming concession round.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e534	It's going to be a string change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e539	: Representative Kvassheim said that something important was missing about the Labour Party's policy in the post of the Workers' Party representative, as opposed to the presentation by the Council of State, where there were many, beautiful and long lines. That might be right. But the Council of State's statement was 30 minutes, and the representative from the Workers' Party had 10 minutes, and the 10 minutes she spent giving a lot of signals compared to what came from the Council of State. I don't think we in the Workers' Party have such a short-term policy in terms of the media situation we're in, that it can be described in 10 minutes. But I can promise the representative that the Workers' Party will come back to its media policy when we get the messages mentioned here, about the media policy of the future. The representative also indicated that stable conditions were important for the media, and in particular for the press and newspapers, which are exposed to fierce competition. These stable framework activities have actually contributed to the crookedness of Mr Kvassheim’s representative. Over two years now, they have taken off the press support. Now they promise to keep the press support at a certain level until the selection is finished, and my question to Kvassheim is: Could he agree to support the Workers' Party in the 25 million? kr that the Labour Party has entered in its revised budget, just to have the stable impact that it is after? It would have been a handshake to the press.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e546	In the wake of the Minister of Culture's presentation, there was criticism from the Labour Party that the big news was missing. I said that it was an unfounded criticism, because there is not much news Norwegian media policy needs, but the will to steer by drawn goals in a long-term perspective. In the case that the Workers' Party should come back with a comprehensive press policy, it is necessary, and we look forward to it. My challenge is that one then not only counts the crowns, but looks at some other important principles, that one is willing to set up on terms that go on freedom of expression, unlike what they did when they joined the Progress Party in a line that distorts the working conditions of the press in important areas. My challenge is exactly the same in terms of transparency, that one contributes to a greater degree of transparency in adjusting the law. I think it is a weakness at the Norwegian press debate that one has gone on the press support to a unilateral degree. In the case of the press support, it is right that the Government, in cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party, made a cut. I have reflected a lot on how much it would have been cut if the Workers' Party and the Right had gone into budgetary cooperation. I think it would be at least as big as it was here, because it was so much of a will from the Labour Party to agree with the Right that I think you were willing to four a lot here to get a total cut of $5 billion, which you had to have last year. And my point is that in the situation we were in, the papers needed stability. It meant a budget that put in place a main picture that could bring interest down, etc. And that contribution has been much more significant to the press than the reduction of some tens of millions in support that came in the current political situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e555	The representative Kvassheim comes here with some speculations about what the Workers' Party and the Right would come up with in a budget for press support. He doesn't have any assumptions to do that. Personally, I was probably much more concerned with what results would have been obtained from the cash support than with the press support. But in fact, it has always been that the Workers' Party has supported the press support, so the speculations about the Workers' Party and the Right don't think I belong at Stortinget's pulpit. I'm also, like Kvassheim, concerned that the press and media policy is about something other than money, and I'm glad that Kvassheim might contribute to it, but in his article there wasn't much of it. I challenge Kvassheim for thoughts about freedom of expression versus privacy, for we see, for example. that in many areas the left will have freedom, transparency and transparency, but to what extent do they take privacy into account? That debate was, at least, absent from both Kvassheim's posts, from the Council of State's posts and also from other government parties' posts. So it's not just to blame the Workers' Party for just being busy with money; he can actually take that accusation with him when he looks at the collection of posts that have come from the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e562	It is right that I have no opportunity to predict what would be the result of possible budgetary cooperation between the Labour Party and the Right – there is also limited interest to speculate about it. But I am certain that at that time the Workers' Party was so prepared to find a solution with the Right that when it was to be cut in the billions, I think many items could have been postponed. As regards the framework conditions for the press, they are amended differently. I would like to draw attention to one aspect: when a newspaper that receives press support expands its publication so that it comes out on Sundays, it triggers an injection of several million kroner of press support, with the consequence that other eligible newspapers will reduce their support. So there have been other factors during the period that have also significantly affected the framework conditions and that have been triggered by the newspapers’ own dispositions — something that it may be natural to discuss in connection with this sample work. So to the challenge of freedom of expression and privacy. It is quite natural that it comes to the Left, because we are the party that has, for the longest time and most consistently, promoted the debate on freedom of expression and privacy, and put a lot of effort into fine-tuning the balances that belong to this context. Those who followed the debate on the prohibition of identification by name and image will be aware of Left's thoughts around it. I don't get time to go into the depth of it in this line. I can, however, promise the representative of the Workers' Party that in our efforts to promote freedom of expression, we shall vote against privacy, but this must not be done in such an easy way as the majority of the population has suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e571	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e574	Press stability was necessary, said the representative Kvassheim in a previous line here. But state councilman Enger Lahnstein has accomplished the trick of making a statement where the press policy was only mentioned in very scarce, defensive order, where she reproduced the facts and the Storting's wish for a selection, which she had followed up on her side. It was supposed to be missing! Nothing was mentioned about the cultural pressure on Norway, about the need for an enhanced commitment to make us aware of both our culture and, not least, our language. The media is an important front line in our work to further develop our democracy. It is a quality that there are newspapers in Norway with different values. By having strong, different newspapers, people are actually well informed about what is happening in most of the major areas both at home and outside. Ether media cannot replace the news work, the social analysis, the social critique and the debate that is disseminated and followed through the newspapers. This was probably a lot with me that had the impression that the Zenterpartiet Enger Lahnstein stood for – but it was before, not now. Studies show that it is the newspapers that ensure that most of us read – read every day. The representative of Greece sets up cultural and press policies against each other, as if they were opposites, as if they were not part of a whole. But he is right that both the Council of State of Enger Lahnstein and the Loan of the Christian People's Party, no matter what they give of verbal flowers, chose to reduce the support for the press – they actually made a choice. I wish we had a Minister of Culture who saw it as an important cultural task for a democracy to be conscious of the press policy. The government claims, by establishing a value commission, that it places values high on the agenda, but has therefore accepted a 25 pst reduction in press support in the same period. That could mean dramatic problems for many nos. 2 newspapers, and meaningful newspapers. At the same time, it is planned to convert the avisporto without any prior notice. Regardless of digitalisation and the interweaving of both broadcasting, TV and the Internet, it must be a fundamental task through stable future-oriented framework conditions to ensure the development of the media as social and cultural institutions, so that people are guaranteed a wide range of media media with different values and different geographical locations – not least in the globalised age in which we live, and with the constant pressure that we must also ensure that we maintain and further develop our own identity, so that the Norwegian language of writing can be strengthened in cooperation with newspapers and in cooperation with other writing culture institutions. As I mentioned earlier, the Council of States should be quite clear here and reject VAT on newspapers on a principle basis, make a common case with the United Kingdom and raise the matter in the EEA, so as to ensure that zero VAT is not removed from the EEA and the EU. We should also develop the democratically justified advertising policy of the state. All of this has to be seen in context. I had assumed that the Council of State had taken this up in its media policy statement, because the fight for value today is also taking place in this cultural area. After the presentation, there may still be considerable uncertainty as to whether the Minister of Culture would like or would like to do something to create new optimism.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e589	After hearing the last post here, I have to ask for the representative. The Knudsen has read or heard my statement. In my presentation, I stressed the very importance of media policy for our democracy, and the cultural tasks that this is about. I believe that the importance of the media for the development of society, both in terms of democracy, culture and values, cannot be overestimated. Then you can discuss the means. And after the criticism that I now received from the Workers' Party, it becomes to me a paradox of landing at the criticism of this press support cut. That's what I've been told. That's what I deserve, and I've admitted it. I cut the press support during the process in Stortinget to protect other cultural activities. I also think of this as a cultural action and I'm going to do what I can to improve the situation. What I see as the biggest challenge now is to see what is happening technologically in terms of internationalisation, in terms of changes in ownership structures and commercialisation in the media. Then the question is, how can we meet this? How can we meet this challenge with a willingness to secure the values that I believe a large majority here agree on? It is actually my view that we need to put some framework conditions into place – with concessions, with some laws, with press support schemes, film support, etc. But I'm convinced that we have to show the media and the press the confidence that they have maritime justice in the ethical field. I think Ågot Valle has had the best post so far, in so far as it is up to me to give the grades to the staging representatives, but I will probably be careful with that. It was an article that was based on how the media deal with difficult issues, such as criminal cases that have been up now. I said in my statement that we have come to the conclusion that we do not want to legislate the editor's poster because we are betting on maritime justice. That's actually the same thing as when we don't want to promote a media agent. In fact, we believe that the press has been quite conscious and good at finding the balance between what goes on in private life, respect for the integrity and privacy of the individual on the one hand, and the need that the public has for insight and knowledge and also for looking at the development of society on the other. It's a choice we've made. It's possible to look at it differently. I would like to stress that for me it is important to say that I am confident that Norwegian media are doing this balance. But we are committed to following developments in this area. And it's clear that if they don't do that, we have to be willing to consider measures. But so far I believe that there is no basis for that. Now I see the time is running out, President. I have been accused that the statement I made, which in my opinion was a very good statement, was not visionary enough. It has also been said here today that this debate and the presentation may have come too early, because there are many concrete things that lie here or are coming now. I've looked forward to this discussion with great anticipation because this is a trial plan. Even though I understood at Jon Olav Alstad that it was a bad account, there would probably be a chance for a media policy statement. I think it is much better to have a media policy statement with a subsequent debate, which we have here today, than what is the alternative, namely annual reports on broadcasting and day-to-day press. Then we'll take the concrete things as they come.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e604	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e608	I think that we will gradually be able to develop jointly a form of debate and a statement that is becoming so powerful. This is the first time. I think we'll see next time that there's going to be a slightly different angle and debate around this. A law of the editor's poster and presseetic work, which the Council of State linked together, I find to a large extent unnatural to compare. It is primarily the ownership we want to regulate through the law of the editor's poster, so that we prevent abuse of ownership; it is not a desire to regulate the ethics of journalists. I was so far into content production in my post, and the need to include film policy more strongly in the media policy debate. There is a positive development of Norwegian films both at home and outside. Therefore, there is a need for a review to see whether we can contribute to further strengthening that development. I am aware of the fact that a consultant's report has been prepared, which, in my opinion, appears to be a little bit of a tool to help us strengthen this development. That is why I am concerned that this should be followed up with budgetary negotiations without allowing us to look at what we really want with film policy. It is then used in Norwegian films with quite a lot of resources. The working party believes it is important to have a more thorough treatment of this field. That is why we want to make our own big message about Norwegian film policy, the aim of which must be to provide opportunities for the development of films, both cultural policy and export industries. There's a lot of exciting happening in this area as it's our job to stimulate further. Both Denmark and Sweden have done this, and there is a need for us to do that job too. The cinema offer we have today for our citizens will be a natural part of this discussion. How has the Council of State intended to follow up our desire for a film message in the near future?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e621	Let me first say when it comes to the legalization of the Editorial plaque, that of course I'm aware that there are questions about owners' abuse of their power that have been the central point. But I can't see that there's any basis to legitimize the Editor's poster for that. On the contrary, as I said, the Ministry of Justice has done, one can also point out that owners must also be allowed to make their views known without being in a way suspicious. As far as film policy is concerned, it is right that the representative Alstad pointed out that we have received a report from Ernst & Young. We're going through it now. It is clear that there is also a budgetary question, so we will come back broadly in the budget proposal for next year in the field of film policy. I agree with the representative Alstad about the importance of strengthening Norwegian film production, both from the cultural point of view and because this can actually help us to come up with what is also Norwegian language and culture as part of a diversity in an international society, so I think it is very sensible and important. The challenge is that Norwegian films have not always been the major successes in Norway. We have a very low proportion of spectators in Norwegian films. But there are exceptions, very good exceptions, and the paradox is that just the successful exceptions make the film support scheme come into a bit of a strange light. But that's of course something that we'll both follow and look forward to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e635	It may seem that the Council of State likes to govern detail both the viewers and the listeners we have in Norway. I'm thinking, for example. under the terms and conditions of the concession. Is it so important for the Council of State that a TV channel, such as TV 2, sends an exact specified number of hours by e.g. Sámi programmes, children's programmes, cultural programmes, etc., etc.? Isn't it more important that those who want to sell their programs have the opportunity to set up instead of this nitite detail management? And I think Is the Council of State that her desire for detailed management could help us to achieve a lower quality of the programmes that we are required to create than if we were to create them on a voluntary basis? The progress party believes at least that this is the wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e644	Let me say to the last one, that the Progress Party believes that it's the wrong way to go to have some guidelines for the public broadcasters, doesn't scare me, because it's not particularly surprising. On the contrary, there is a confirmation that the Progress Party does not want or has any thoughts on how public broadcasters can develop. However, we have today's system that we have some thoughts around and some principles of public broadcasting that I think it's very, very important to hold on to the time we're now going into, because we're seeing an increasing degree of commercialisation, and the public broadcasters can get under pressure. This is why it is important, not with detail management, as the representative Bredvold describes it, but to provide guidelines and licensing requirements, so that narrower offers can also be made available and provided for both languages, children and Sami groups, which are precisely the areas where the Danish Broadcasting Council has pointed out that, among other things. TVs 2 and P4 have not followed up the requirements that have been set, in a good way. Now it is also said that a certain improvement has been recorded, and I am pleased about that. It also implies, of course, the proper functioning of this kind of monitoring or review of concession terms represented by the General Broadcasting Council. So we have important goals to achieve through the system we have, and I'm going to try to follow it up to the best of my ability, even in connection with the conversations we're now going to have with TV 2.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e653	‘The government is not prepared to open up increased commercialisation in the broadcasting sector’, says the Council of State at its end of the presentation, while describing in a good way the rippling, frontier media developments that are coming in the years to come. Do the government councils with broadcasting here mean the NRK or the public broadcasters, or does she mean any kind of broadcasting when she warns against and says she wants to put her foot down for increased commercialization? My starting point is a little bit different. We see that commercial broadcasting will expand and perhaps explode with the development of new transmission formats and digitisation. In this situation, the need for protection of Norwegian language and cultural identity becomes even more important than today. Have the Council of State considered how this should be done in the digital future, where the possibilities of opting out Norwegian language and culture will be enormous?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e662	I believe that the representative of Greece here points to what we are facing, namely a tearing technological development, and a wish – at least that is my wish, as I stated in my statement – that commercialisation should not intervene. So we have to try to control this, and the question is, how can we find a good way to do it? One tool that I would like to draw out is to give the NRK, which is the most important cultural institution we have in the country if you think about how often and how many people meet, good working conditions and framework conditions. That is why we have put forward a case on the business relationship with the NRK, so that you can develop more freely than has been the case before. We have also set a clear framework for sponsoring activities, so that the NRK can appear, even though we must have certain exceptions, as actually free of advertising. As regards the provision of Norwegian language and culture, this is a continuous desire. I now mentioned the NRK and the public broadcasters. I think that in the context of the message of digitisation that we are going to present in a few weeks, I hope, perhaps this month, that it will also be set up to make choices where the maximum is done, precisely in order to ensure the public broadcasters and what is important for the provision of Norwegian language and culture.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e671	I record that we disagree with the question of legalising editorial independence. I see the point that owners also have to get outside, but I want to make it clear that the proposal that is in place is based on the Editorial plaque, and as I said, it gives the editor a mandate to direct the editorial activities within the framework that the basic vision represents. I will now address a question that has not been touched on at all in this debate. It has something to do with the coverage of women in the media. Almost ten years ago, Elisabeth Eide conducted a survey of the women's image in Norwegian daily press at the journal high school and came to a rather discouraging conclusion. Despite the fact that women then had the train into all the community arenas, it was only 14-16 pst. of the sources used by the media, which were women. At the same time, the NRK Equality Committee conducted a study, ‘Who is talking in the NRK?’, and also found poor female coverage. Now the Institute of Journalism is re-investigating a study commissioned by the Value Commission. They've come up with a rather eye-catching result in terms of women's coverage, and that's the same discouraging result: that women are very little used as sources in the media. This represents an invisibility of women, women’s everyday lives and women also in forward-looking societal positions. My question is this: Will the Council of State ensure that this will also be an important topic of debate in the next media policy presentation, and what kind of instruments does she see that we, as politicians, can contribute to bringing up women's coverage in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e687	This was probably an article in the gender equality debate first and, of course, the representative Valle points to something very important. The representative demonstrates in his reply that the situation is that women are less used in the media than one should expect, and that one has some kind of undetection of women in the media. I think, however, that I have to expand the debate on women in the media to actually be a societal debate on equality. I can't imagine any of the tools that we could use, except that when this has become a topic here today, the media could also think through how to bring women into the media to a greater extent. It's important. And I can't see why it hasn't changed lately. On the contrary, I sometimes have the impression that it's going in the wrong direction. 20 years ago I had an unpretentious personal little review of the political debate coverage in the NRC. I counted men, including those who led the debates in the NRK, and that was sympathetic. It could be a way to do it from time to time and ask, why is that? This creates a picture in the thousands of homes of a society that is human-dominated and man-dominated. But the representative Valle and the large proportion of women politicians will also be able to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e696	It's probably not enough for women to do it alone, it'll take a lot more to get through the equality fight. I want to return to the exchange of words that the Council of State had with me after my speech. The struggle for language, for writing and for reading is probably the most important cultural struggle to ensure that we as people remain conscious. If we now look at countries where 'pictures' are becoming more and more prominent, people are actually less generalised as well. Therefore, it was very surprising that a disappearing small part – if any – of this statement referred to the position on the press policy in such a perspective at a time of media commercialisation. In reply to me, Lahnstein says that she is hurt over all the criticism and the stick she has received in connection with the press support. But it's not about that. Nor is it about how the State Council may have been hurt, or how well she thinks her statement is, and how well it has been presented. It is about how the Council of State, on behalf of a government, is to ensure that no. 2 newspapers, meaningful newspapers, do not die, are not reduced and are not sold out while the sample that Stortinget wanted to reduce is now to carry out its work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e705	I take the press policy very seriously. I am not hurt that I have received countermeasures in relation to the steps I have had to take in connection with the budgetary procedure here in Stortinget. However, I have taken the criticism for it, and I have reduced this selection with Hallvard Hill as the leader. I agree that the language and the meaning of the writing language cannot be overestimated as regards the identity of people and the development of culture. That's why I've also been very clear that it's the press we're supporting, the written word, and I'm not recommending going for general arrangements for other types of media like broadcasting. So to the question from Grete Knudsen about attitudes to the press policy. My attitude is that we should facilitate conditions so that we can ensure diversity. I have mentioned it repeatedly: secure number. The 2 newspapers, ensure the nationwide, meaningful newspapers and local newspapers. We stand – and I think the Workers' Party could recognise that too – in a situation where this is not as easy to achieve as before, among other things. by the press, for example: start publishing free newspapers undermining the advertising market, changing ownership structures and generally being required to do something with VAT. I have said what I mean about VAT. However, I have also recorded that very central people in the Workers' Party have pointed to the fact that VAT exemptions, both on outward and inward VAT, are a very strong subsidy, which seems to be such that we also support the major media sponsors in a way that should, of course, be reviewed. I'm assuming that this sample will do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e715	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e718	There's so much happening within the media world that a half-hour presentation is obviously far too scarce to be able to excite all the interesting topics that you might imagine being presented within the media policy. Nevertheless, state councils have been able to address key media policy challenges, both in technical, commercial and social areas, where digitisation, internationalisation and commercialisation are important keywords. Through these different aspects, the Council of State states that the basic, overall objectives of media policy should be set. This is a positive signal that has important real-world policy content. The allegations that we have heard today, that this should be a bad or an uninteresting account, can, in my opinion, be taken by the Council of State with a crushing calm. Unfortunately, it has gradually become an almost predictable reaction from the opposition parties after any explanation in this house, perhaps with the exception of the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement. I think the Council of State is well-informed on one of the main overall objectives of media policy, namely to ensure freedom of expression and a living democracy. One can easily assume that this will come about by itself as a result of technical progress, which gives more opportunities to release more people, but unfortunately it is not. It's a good way of putting words into the hands of the state council. Increased commercialisation and trends in owner concentration are worrying trends that could threaten important cultural impulses and social benefits. At the same time, media interest does not say so little about media penetration and societal power. The Christian People's Party has been and is concerned that we should have a differentiated media offer, both geographically, ideologically and politically. But it poses special challenges. Without doubt, the phenomenon referred to as ‘convergence’ will lead to a significant increase in the scope of broadcasting, including for local radio and television stations. But this isn't free of charge. The big broadcasters will obviously be less vulnerable to the increased competition we can imagine. For example, many smaller local TV companies have establish cooperation with large and more robust companies with nationwide activities. If this cooperation is changed or dissolved as a result of technological developments, the economic assumptions could also be dramatically changed for many of these companies. This can lead to problems for many local companies. And the question is, is there any possibility, then, of preventing such undesirable reorganisation of local radio and television broadcasters? This, I think, will quickly be issues that can present themselves as a political challenge. Advertising has been discussed several times on this occasion. I fully share the opinion of the Council of State that there is a limit to advertising. I would also like to say briefly that I am generally very sceptical about the sponsorship that is taking place in the NRK today. I think the NRK must actually appear as an advertisement-free broadcast in any sense and interpretation of the word. I'm glad that in the proposal on sponsorship, a tightening of the sponsorship rules for the NRK has now been proposed. We have to take advice to get an advertising and sponsorship-free zone in this country. This means, of course, a corresponding responsibility for ensuring sufficient resources for the NRK through the licensing system to follow and compete and to maintain the important public broadcasting function NRK has been allocated. And it's a challenge to ourselves in this house. In conclusion, the press support has been provided by the Labour Party in this debate, and it is very much a prior procedure for the revised national budget. Press support is an important prerequisite for a differentiated press, but trying to establish a clear link between press support as it is today and freedom of expression is unreasonable. There is every reason to look at the press support, and I look forward to the sample that will investigate this. The Stortinget will then have an opportunity to express its opinion, and it will have an impact on the political decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e731	Governments have found no reason to change the overall objectives of media policy, and I think that is good. This means that media pluralism, expression capacity and access to factual and comprehensive information are to be maintained, because there are crucial prerequisites for a democratic society. The Council of State is committed to finding the means to achieve these overall objectives. A little heart attack: it could be nice to see those tools in practice. In fact, it is a challenge for the Council of State to support the revised budget of the Workers' Party, where we are just adding 25 million. kr for press support. But I do not want this debate just to deal with the instruments that promote diversity and geographical distribution. There was at least one lack in the media policy statement of the Council of State: she did not mention press ethics in one word. On the other hand, she was within the audience's needs and wishes. Then one might wonder to what extent these wishes should be emphasized. Let me stress that it's pretty hard to figure out what people really want. And even harder is to give them what they want, because many people say they want bread and circuses. Should they get it? I leave the answer to the discussion about the role of the public broadcaster. Two days before the Council of State gave its media policy statement, an open letter was sent to the press. The letter was sent by Barbro Zedini's sister. The contents of the letter are a description of personal feelings, not only by the fact that a sister was murdered, but also with regard to the problems it entails being a relative and thereby becoming the victim of an attack from the press. She calls for the «Be careful» poster item 4.6, where it says that consideration should be shown to people in grief or imbalance. I find it sad that the Council of State has not given greater attention to this problem in its media policy presentation. She said on the contrary that the press is good at keeping borders. How do you figure it out, when it's the little people in society who are bored, who aren't so resourceful that they can write an open letter to the newspapers? In a situation where pressure, competition and speed as well as demands for increased profitability in the media are constantly increasing, there are many actors in the same market. It creates again strong competition for news that the seller sells. There is every reason to be skeptical about this general commercialisation of the media, which can actually give a media situation that is a threat to privacy. The debate on freedom of expression often presents freedom of expression and privacy as conflicting interests. I have not changed my mind about the fact that the press itself is drawing up guidelines for its ethical borders. But developing a new media pattern in our country means that some press ethics rules must be kept high, and we politicians and public authorities must also be involved in debating this on behalf of the community and on behalf of the weak. I wish the Council of State had addressed the new challenges in the press field, which actually creates the need for new border crossings. We're at war, and the coverage of acts of war where only one person gets access to news from one side and it's hard to run critical journalism, is one area we should have discussed. This also applies to the use of hidden microphone, hidden camera, false identity, privacy issues for journalists, among others. as a result of sponsorship, personal focus in the protection of privacy, identification in criminal matters, both by relatives and victims, and the purchase of information by means of a checkbook. In addition, we also have the owners' demands for economically profitable news. These issues need to be properly discussed and addressed, because if not, the credibility of the media is at stake. If this credibility is weakened, the media will also become poorer instruments in ensuring the freedom of expression of which we are all so concerned. I want media that through the editors have an ongoing ethical debate and an ethical awareness in the busy everyday life we know it is in the individual editorials.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e752	I have no problem agreeing with the views of the necessary ethical debate that the representative, Mr Fossum, just put forward. I think that the whole Storting will have great joy and society, for the rest, great benefit of us taking that debate. Then the Storting a few months ago dealt with St.meld No. 12 for 1998-99 on broadcasting and day-to-day press for 1997, there was broad consensus in the Committee on a Test Scheme, replacing the annual reports on media policy development with an annual report by the Minister for Culture. Now that we've got the first statement after the new system, it's hard to see any difference than the fact that the actual information on media policy developments is much more up-to-date than in the past. It is undoubtedly an advantage, but still the production has a form that is not very suitable for more fundamental debates of the nature that the representative Fossum called for. It is not suitable for debate on different aspects of development. It will continue to be the case that the Storting needs to address the broader principles of dealing with specific cases. Of course, whether it is an advantage or a disadvantage can be discussed. There is no need to be any less that one is given the opportunity to assess principles directly in relation to real cases. After all, it can be of great benefit that the principles can also be applied in real life. However, it is difficult to see it differently than that there must be a need for the Council of State not to have clear principles, drawn up by the Grand Duchy, to rely on when decisions are to be made or when proposals are to be made for submission to the Grand Duchy. So the presentation gives a good overview of the things you're dealing with. There's nothing to say about the activity, but there's a sad reason to ask for the results of all this activity, because it's going too late. I might just have to mention the notified message about digital television as an example. When the Storting asked for such a message in its time, it was precisely because here you are facing a development that will eventually come with full strength, and which you really knew little about. There was simply a need for more knowledge if the Stortinge had any hope of having a certain grip on this side of media policy development. The exchange of replies between representatives from Greece and Lånke gave a good picture of this. Unfortunately, we still know almost as little as at the time as what assessments the department makes on these issues, and the knowledge we have gradually acquired, we have learned that the party groups have acquired external expertise on their own. But it should not be the case that the Storting is on a continuous backlog in media policy. Of course, it is not the responsibility of the Council of State alone, but it should be a responsibility, also of the Council of State, to contribute to the reasonably up-to-date operation of the Stortinge even in the field of media policy development. It does not seem that we will ever finish the debate on the implications of the concept of public broadcasting for the various public broadcasters. The right continues to have difficulties in accepting that public broadcasting should necessarily involve exactly the same obligations for all, regardless of the form of ownership and the way in which it is financed. The basic requirements for varied programme content, use of Norwegian languages, etc. are, of course, the same, but in our opinion it must be reasonable to impose stricter requirements on a licensed company as NRK than on advertising-funded consignments. And to be honest, it seems a little fruitful to be doing such millimeters of ecstasy as the Public Broadcasting Council suggests. I am pleased that the Council of State will put pressure on the TV companies to get subtitles for hearing impaired people. In recent years, the need for subtitles has increased, not least because more and more people use local dialects in nationwide broadcasts. Local dialect is quite fine in local television, where most understand what is said, but are more problematic in national broadcasts, as the sound image in dialects is not familiar with, does not make full sense to those receiving fewer audio signals than others. And that's how hearing impairment works. While emphasis is placed on promoting and strengthening Norwegian languages in general broadcasting, untextual transmissions mean that all the thousands of hearing-impaired in Norway are referred to foreign-language textual broadcasts. This is particularly serious for children and young people. The Council of State said that it is important to counter harmonisation and owner-concentrations in the mass media. It could almost be interpreted as if the Council of State considered that there is necessarily a link between equalization and owner concentration. Now this has become clear in the debate. Except for the Murdoch Empire, I don't know about current examples where there's obviously an editorial management from the central owner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e767	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e770	The major challenges facing the media sector in the future were clearly identified by the Minister of Culture. The key media policy instruments will still need to be adapted to changing conditions. Apart from this, we will have individual cases and regulations of sub-area. Some of these things are important in principle. There are enough changes to the regulatory framework for sponsoring broadcasting programmes. Moreover, digitisation is reaching its full width, and there is a great deal of uncertainty about what technological developments will mean in practice. We can only say that the media have an important role in cultural policy. An active effort is needed to secure a Norwegian-language offer while at the same time preserving cultural diversity. It is also worth noting that a few of the messages from the Public Broadcasting Council indicate that the newsprint is too low, which the department has also previously agreed on. This applies to both NRK television channels. When the NRK2 only has a newnorth percentile of 11,1 which is well below the limit, there must be reason to wonder. The NRK, the public broadcasting channel paid with license money, should go in here. It seems like the biggest rival, TV 2, is better, even when it's about dialect usage. I'm aware that the department has taken this up with the NRK, but this must not get sedated. The councils were also involved in the captioning of hearing impairments in the distribution, and I am aware that a program is now being worked on which to refer to text on the spot. Nevertheless, I think it is nice that the Council of State will prepare the work with a view to legislating subtitles for television programmes, if the technology is not working. The representative Stolt-Nielsen was otherwise on the groundwork for this, and I will also support it. I also look forward to the results of the work of the selection that goes through the press support and looks at its framework conditions. Since the selection is not due until April next year, it is important to maintain the best possible stability for the pressure in the period until then - to avoid newspaper deaths and to take advantage of the selection's work. Just what has been going on today, about support for the Financial Newspaper on one side and local newspapers on the other, makes it clear that this must be seen in its full width and context. All of us, including the Right and Grete Knudsen in the Labour Party, should agree. It is now crucial to have a quick review of all the public tools for the press. Finally, I would just like to mention that the need to strengthen the ethical work of the press has been increasingly important. Not least the drawing of borders, which some media stretch more and more.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e783	Who is wrong to get what they pay for, even in the case of the TV license from NRK? As it looks now, it's going to be everybody but the viewers in the Nordic countries. In the 1996-1997 government budget, the broadcasting fee was increased on the grounds that Nordland and Østfold were to receive their own district broadcasts. North Norway has today Nordnytt, with its main seat in Tromsø, which will cover all three northernmost states. Because of the distances in North Norway – only Northland is as far as Steinkjer to Moss – Nordland is the county that loses the entries. The board of directors of the NRK already said in 1994 that the region was too large and that Nordland was to be separated as its own region. Great was the joy when the Stortinget decided on a district office in Northern Ireland, which after all has 250,000 inhabitants. A new NRK building was planned to be built in Bodø, and was completed in the spring of 1998. All the equipment is also in place. Great was the disappointment when the NRK made it clear that they would not bet on Nordland anyway, and drove Eastfold up as a candidate in front of Nordland. In addition, the board of directors of the NRK pressed Kåre Willoch through morning broadcasts at the NRK, so that the matter was further exacerbated. This was done even if the decision on the size is still valid. This is how the districts are treated without scruples. The promise is that the districts will have an important role when Lunch TV starts. In letters to the Ministry of Culture of 17 December 1998 and 3 February 1999, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee raised the question of whether the NRC has followed up the assumptions expressed by the Stortinge in the decision to increase the broadcasting licence in the State budget for 1996 and 1997. The Committee noted that the stipulations for increased licensing payments were not met. In reply to the committee, the Council of State states that the Ministry assumes that the development of its own district mission in Northern Ireland is binding until the Grand Duchy decides otherwise. This is reassuring, but should result in a clear instruction to the NRK to start the development immediately. The Nordic population expects the position the Council of State will put forward to be positive, so that the offer they have wisely paid for will be put in place as soon as possible. Something else will not be understood. A postponement, as suggested by media policy, has little understanding in Northern Ireland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e796	Let me say to the last question that was raised, that I agree with the interpretation that here the Stortinget has given a directive to the NRK. But now it is also the case that the majority of people have converted the NRK into an AS, and that is why I believe it is very important to listen to what the NRK also has to say on the occasion of the case. There I have a process going on, and I will promise to come back to Stortingen with this matter when I believe the time is right for it, and I think it will be in connection with the budget proposal for next year. I'm following this up to the best of my ability. It is such that this has been a system of examination in the form of a presentation and a debate. It was said by the representative Stolt-Nielsen that this is not a suitable form. I am concerned that we can develop this form rather than go back to a scheme where we present messages about previous years' activities, and then it has the basis for debate. I believe that there is a need for general debates on media policy, as we have had today. I think this debate points to the broad political consensus here on the media objectives that we have drawn up. There is some disagreement about the instruments, but I honestly don't think the sound level of the Workers' Party when it comes to it is relative to the big difference, namely this press support cut. I would like to draw the conclusion that, in terms of media policy instruments in general, there is a broad consensus between the Labour Party and the Centre Government on the systems we have for it. As far as the press is concerned, it is correct that I did not go into it so much in my presentation. In my article today, I have pointed out what I think is an obvious matter, that the press is seal – and the editors are seal – here has the obvious responsibility, and that the ‘Vare-watch’ poster and the practice of it so far have not provided the basis for demanding or proposing to legislate on this. The self-justice is also a responsibility that the press assumes. I want, of course, like others here, to follow this carefully, also because in this area a lot is happening in the wake of the commercialization that I think many here are skeptical of. With regard to precisely this with the importance of the media for our democracy, the importance of diversity, variety and supply spread geographically, I believe at least that there is a majority in the Biggest to follow up what has been the objective for a number of years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e809	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e817	The size should then go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e823	During the debate, Mr Valle has put forward three proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘It is recommended that the Government consider imposing a concession fee on advertising funded public broadcasters.’ 2, from the Socialist Left Party, says:‘It is recommended that the Government increase the press support to the 1997 level of the State budget for 2000.’ – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Ågot Valle – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e837	It concerns proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox It is now the case that more people in the debate have taken a positive view of the intentions of this proposal, but will wait for the work of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. When that is the case, I see no reason to vote against the proposal today. On the contrary, I will wait until the idea of editorial independence has matured. I would therefore ask that this proposal be transmitted as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e842	The President will suggest that it is possible to withdraw the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e845	No, I won't.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e850	Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government legislate on editorial independence.’ The President proposes that the same proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will propose that the Minister of Culture's media policy statement be annexed to the minutes of the Storting meeting on 28 May 1999. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-04.ana.ud739e866	There is no record.
