ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e51	The President will propose the election of a president of the Odelstingen Meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e56	I suggest Tron Erik Hovind.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e61	Mr. Tron Erik Hovind is proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Tron Erik Hovind is unanimously elected president of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e73	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 509]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e87	An overall committee indicates that the changes proposed by the Government are to be seen as administrative simplification in the form of law. The amendments relate to Section 462 of the Maritime Act that it will be the Ministry and not the King who will appoint dispensaries. A dispensary is a public-appointed person who takes care of dispensations — the decision and the calculation of co-occurrence in maritime law. The second paragraph of Section 468 of the Sea Act is proposed to be repealed, so that it is not the department that is to arrange the dispensation examination. The first paragraph of Section 468 of the Maritime Act on the content of the dispensation examination is proposed to be repealed and moved to regulation. And in the maritime law § 467 the department proposes a new second term that will provide the basis for such a regulation. The Committee has taken into account the opinions of the 18 hearing bodies in their private and public activities. None of the hearing bodies has opposed the changes currently in place. In the last round of consultations, the Ministry has taken into account the central association of maritime insurers, the Disaster Examination Commission and the Norwegian Shipowners’ Association, which stated that there should still be rules on knowledge requirements for shippers. This view also shares an overall committee. The Committee notes that the first examination in the course of accident settlement at the Insurance Academy in February 1999 will qualify according to the new rules. The Committee therefore considers that the legislative amendment should enter into force immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e100	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 509]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e114	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 15 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of lines with up to three lines with replies after the speeches of main speakers from each party group and after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e123	Document No. of the Progress Party Eight proposals are as follows: ‘It is now common for felons to collect a variety of crimes and to be sentenced to an overall penalty for them. All criminal statistics show that a relatively limited number of people are behind a relatively large proportion of the total winning crime in Norway. It will be a great advantage for society if these vancriminals are sentenced to severe prison sentences and thus to be out of circulation for longer periods. Today, however, the law is such that a criminal who is convicted at the same time for a large number of crimes cannot receive a longer prison sentence than he can get for 1 1⁄2 crimes, provided that the maximum sentence of the law is applied.’ In this context, the focus is on vancriminals, the so-called repeats, or professional criminals. This is something that an overall Justiscomite agrees with, and that has also been expressed both in Innst. S. No 105 for 1997-98 and for budget-only. S. No 4 for 1998-99. Quotes from these settings are shown in Committee settings for the current case. However, let me repeat what is said in that budget statement: ‘... that more stringent penalties should be sought for repeated pay crime and that emphasis should be placed on increased concentration on the rebounds. The Committee also recalls that, in that position, the Ministry was asked to make proposals to prevent criminal offences from being collected before the appeal is brought.’ This fully illustrates the fact that the Workers' Party, together with the rest of the Committee, is united that it is now high time that there is something to be done about the recurrent problem, and where it is probably right that the handling of this group in today's system is well under way in violation of people's perception of justice. In order to use the terminology of the Advance Party: professional criminals or criminals must leave circulation. Is it not the case that everything should be in line for the proposals of the Progress Party? It is not that simple, however, because the principle of cumulation that representatives Simonsen and Hagen now intend to introduce could easily lead to unreasonably high penalties, and could lead to punishments that would not in any way be compatible with the principles of criminal justice in a modern state, and that would also be inconvenient to the last year's criminal record in the United Kingdom. Already at the time of the adoption of the penal code in 1902, it was seen that this principle could go wrong. That's why we got the more elastic rules for modern punishment, which is based on a concrete total judgment in which both the criminal, the perpetrator and the circumstances otherwise occur. Our neighbouring countries Sweden, Denmark and Finland also use the same principles as we do in Norway for the criminal evaluation in this field. The Criminal Law §§62 and 63 was also assessed by the Criminal Law Commission in NOU 1992:23 New criminal law – general provisions. The Commission then proposed a continuation of the current system, only with minor adjustments. It's also nice to remind you that in Innst. S. No 70 for 1994-95 the Stortinget rejected a Document No. 8 proposals with the same content as the proposal we are considering today. Of what I have said here, it should be said that the majority of the Committee, all except the Advancement Party, believes that the principle of conviction for several crimes is retained as today. The rules set out in Sections 62 and 63 must continue to be based on the so-called "criminal tightening" principle, which means that a common penalty should be established for all the infringements, but with an extended penalty framework. That being said, the members of the Workers' Party in the Committee, together with representatives of the Right and the Centre Parties, find that the Government considers whether the maximum level of overall punishment is still the right one. From the Labour Party's point of view, this is based on the seriousness of the reoccurrence problem and on the fact that the maximum level of the day, 1 1⁄2 times the penalty for each crime with the highest penalties, has remained unchanged since 1902. Today's crime scene is, after all, something different than it was 97 years ago. To this end, the majority proposes the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider an amendment to Section 62 of the Criminal Code so as to allow for the imposition of stricter maximum penalties for more than the current rule with a maximum limit of 1 1⁄2 times the penalty limit for the most serious of the convicted cases to allow access to.’ In this position, too, although there may be something on the side of today's issue, the Committee would again point out what we have previously said about the fight against violence, namely that it must be one of the highest priority areas of criminal policy. We'll remind you again that we're in the Inner East. S. No 168 for 1997-98 states that the level of penalties for serious crimes of violence is too low and that there is scope for increasing the level of penalties within the current criminal framework. The Committee wants us as legislators to use every opportunity in our communication with executive jurisdiction to express this fact, in order to emphasize the seriousness of the matter. Back to this draft document. A very important element in the fight against the vancriminals, on which the Progress Party has little focus, is the possibility of higher criminal measures for which the applicable criminal penalties in the Penal Code § 62 opens. The judgment of 15 December 1997, in which the Supreme Court increased the sentence of the law on prison for one year and six months to two years and three months, stated from the majority of the Supreme Court that there could be a general increase in the level of penalties for relapse crimes within the wider scope of the criminality of profits. The Committee has taken particular note of this, and I would like to express that, on behalf of the Labour Party, we strongly share the majority view of the Supreme Court in relation to the relevance of this matter to the possibility of raising the general level of penalties for relapse crimes. The Ministry of Justice itself pointed out in the letter to the Committee of 18 January 1999 a number of measures that could be taken in relation to the replication problem. The working party has faith in these measures — to re-use the expression — in getting the repeats out of circulation. As the rapporteur, I have seized these and received the agreement of the Committee. However, the condition is clear to the sun: it must be more than festivities and expression of will in different documents. Prioritisation, conversion, efficiency, speed and implementation throughout the criminal justice chain are necessary. For this reason, the Committee goes beyond the Ministry of Justice in terms of the specificity of each measure and has also felt it necessary to make proposals in this respect. Today's practice of the Criminal Procedures Act Section 13, first paragraph, which says that prosecution against the same person for several criminal offences is to be united in one case, leads to many cases becoming very extensive before prosecution and judgment. In many cases against repeaters, we are still being postponed because new criminal relations are coming into existence. The Committee is here in the clear view that opening must be given in order to break up the conviction of several criminal offences committed by one and the same person. In this context, an overall committee is behind the following proposals: ‘In 1999, the Government asks the Government to promote concrete legislative proposals and measures to prevent the collection of crimes before a criminal reaction, without removing the individual criminal measure.’ If a person takes the time to read this proposal carefully, it should be obvious to everyone that this change will remove many of today's unreasonable so-called discounts. Another important step towards resolving the reoccurrence problem is the reduction of treatment time and the rapid implementation of criminal response. The Committee also considered it necessary to submit a proposal to that effect. It's like: ‘The Government of the State Budget for 2000 is asked to present concrete measures that reduce the time lag between criminal action and criminal response.’ Again, we are talking about the pace and effectiveness of the criminal justice chain. A notice in Dagbladet on 26 April 1999 describes a single case in which a person who was sentenced in his case two years ago is still waiting to pay the residual penalty for one year. If this results in correctness, it is very worrying. There have also been allegations – most recently in the daily newspaper of 21 April – that it does not. At present, there is not enough staff in the criminal justice system to receive more convictions for acquittal, while several hundred detention centres are available. I assume that the Minister of Justice takes this very seriously. The Labour Party, through the Vice-Chairman of the Judicial Committee, Vidar Bjørnstad, has asked the Minister of Justice to assess these claims. From the Labour Party we have for a long time pointed to the need for a balance between the resources of the police, the judiciary and criminal justice, a view that I have reason to believe is shared by the Dørum Council. The Committee immediately supported the proposal of First-State Advocate Qvigstad to amend the rules governing the notification of the judgment and the time limit for appeal. As a general rule, the judgment must be given in legal proceedings in which the defendant or defendant is present. The appeal period must then also apply from the same date. Today, the situation is such that in many cases it may be difficult to pass judgment on many of the convictions that are not in custody, and the appeal period does not start until the police have served the verdict. The last measure I want to mention to reduce reoccurrence crime is to extend the use of custody to the most active reoccurrence. This, combined with the avoidance of many factors being judged at the same time, can effectively reduce the criminal activity of this group. The police are well aware of many of these criminals and can follow in what they do. This will make it possible to be quickly produced for custody when new criminal offences occur. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 4 for1998-99, the Stortinget asked the Government to investigate the issue of increased use of custody for Vancriminals. In this respect, the Committee welcomes the fact that this investigation was already initiated by the then Minister of Justice Aure, and assumes that this work under the new Minister of Justice will be given high priority. I am convinced that the implementation of the relevant measures I have now considered, together with the exploitation of the possibility of higher penalties within the current legal framework, will lead to a reduction in reoccurrence crime. The result could be both ‘reduced discounts’ and not least that this group would dramatically reduce its ability to commit new criminal offences. When the Committee also asks the Government to consider an amendment to Section 62 of the Penal Code in the direction of a higher maximum penalty, I believe that the Committee has provided a good basis for many people in this country to be spared from the criminal acts committed by the revenants.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e195	On 14 April, the police chief in Follo, Stein Ulrich, went out to the VG with a strong warning against today’s superliberal criminal policy, which, according to the police chief, often leads to vancriminals living ‘in sus and then outside prisons’. The police officer beats, among other things: establish the following: ‘The most important function of criminal policy today is’... ‘to facilitate the conditions well for anyone who will commit crimes. ‘Big police resources are tied up to ‘hunting’ hyperactive people entering and entering prisons. Police officer Stein Ulrich claims that the quantum discount resulting from Section 62 of the Criminal Code results in the offender being nominated for training and avoidance, and that the offender is equally likely to commit 30 extra crimes if he has first committed 20 crimes, since the penalty is still about the same. The Chief of Police is supported by the views of several other experienced police officers. Criminal Chief Bjørn Andersen in Stavanger says, among other things. ‘the day’s practice may be deterrent to officials’. Police attorney Karsten Monsen in Rogaland Police District says to the VG on 15 April: “It’s an incredible naivety in political environments.”...“The low level of punishment, probation and the discount system cost us an incredible amount of resources. It's frustrating. People end up in the police because they lose motivation as a result of today's system." Police chief Karl Henrik Sjursen of Haugesund Police District also agrees with Ulrich. We politicians should occasionally listen to those people who feel the problems on the body and who, because of their professional background, have a completely different understanding of and better detailed knowledge of the problems than we do. That is precisely what the Progress Party has done when we have proposed to remove this quantum discount scheme, which in practice means that a criminal is not convicted of more than a small proportion of the criminal acts he has committed. Or, in another way, the more criminal acts he commits, the less punishment he receives on average for each criminal act. In the last big-time too, the Progress Party proposed to remove this system and instead introduce a system whereby a criminal convicted of many criminal acts at the same time is penalised for each individual offence, in order to impose these penalties on each other in the final criminal investigation. It has to be the only logical and the only fair thing. In the United States, it's going a lot like this -- yeah, actually, even better. A criminal may be punished for offences against several legal paragraphs in connection with the same act and may be penalised for each individual offence committed. In practice, some can then be sentenced to prison for a longer period than they are expected to live, and in other words, they must spend the rest of their lives behind locks and beats — to the great joy of the lawful inhabitants of the country, who are apprehended for all the misery that they would likely bring to other people if they had escaped from prison again. Once the Progress Party has repeated its previous proposal, this time we have strongly moderated it in the hope of having a unanimous collapse in the back. We've set an upper limit to the overall 21-year sentence. Even I would probably prefer the American system as a whole. But even such a moderate proposal cannot support the other parties, even though it has been made during a period when all the parties claim that they want stricter regimes in relation to criminals, during a period when the Right is trying to market 'Tøffe-Jan' and the Left is starting to market 'Tøffe-Dørum'. Instead of removing the unreasonable and destructive quantum discount scheme, the Government Parties, the Right and the Labour Party are bringing together a proposal asking the Government to consider a minor adjustment to the scheme. Here it is certainly not much toughness, no harshness to the criminals. This is with respect to report quite calmly. The right and the other parties are totally lacking in criminal law. The right’s argument is incredible enough that the proposal that a criminal should be judged for all of the criminal acts he commits leads to too strict punishment! Yes, it must be an argument that makes the country's criminals rejoice. The quantum discount scheme, as police chief Stein Ulrich pointed out in the VG, has been for the benefit of the criminals. For the second time, they don't have to experience that the discount is being deducted. They will still get away cheaply from their burglaries, thanks to the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Right, and probably also the Left and Socialist Left Party. I have heard the claim that the proposal will lead to a series of burglaries leading to as long sentences as killings. I guess I'm not allowed by the president to say that this is the purest blow, so I'm going to remember that hardly any burglars today get unconditional punishment, and that there are examples of people who have committed more than 60 burglaries getting away with 40 days of community service. Then there'll probably be a few hundred more burglaries to come up with such a criminal measure, unless you choose to steal a Munch painting. But, of course, many minor crimes will lead to the same punishment as one serious criminal act — many creeks make a big deal. It has to be both right, fair and logical. If someone thinks it is a problem, we can only follow up with much stricter penalties for killing and, for example, remove the 21st year limit. There is reason to repeat my quotation from police adjutant Karsten Monsen at Rogaland Police District: ‘It is an incredible naivety in political environments.’ Unfortunately, this leads to many people’s homes being turned away unnecessarily by burglars, and many being unnecessarily exposed to crime and perhaps also to violence. 54 pst. In a poll, the voters say that the Progress Party is the party they most agree with in criminal policy. Maybe it should have made other politicians think. Yet they continue to fail their electors. I appreciate the voters that it gives the Advance Party. But most of all, I apologize on behalf of the victims of the future, who could be adored of criminal acts committed by people who should have been sitting safely and well behind the prison walls. Finally, I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party, which is set out in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e239	The representative Jan Simonsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e244	I made it quite clear in my first speech that there is a great deal of support in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities on the grounds of the proposal to intervene. When we cannot accept the proposal, it is, of course, because of the lack of coherence in the proposals of the Progress Party. Simonsen points to the situation in the United States and wants us to have so-called American states in this field in Norway. I would like to point out again what he is jumping over, that the penalty framework that is within § 62 of today opens up far more severe punishments. When I took the floor now, it was to ask if the representative Simonsen really believes that the medicine a young first-time criminal, who for some reason has landed on the slope plane, is met the first time he hits the legal system, is going to be prison for a long time, preferably several years, when we know that there may be measures and the apparatus we have in the municipalities around the country, which can get him to the right keel. Crimes shall be taken seriously and reactions shall be made. We have also made this clear in the committee many times. But my point is, does Simonsen think that the drug against first-time criminals is three, four, or five years in prison? That's my question to the representative Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e253	First of all, if there is to be a whole and a context in criminal matters, it should actually be such that you get a normal sentence for every criminal act you commit. As far as first-time criminals are concerned, on my proposal, criminality is dependent on the amount of crime he has committed. If a first-time criminal is not taken before he has committed ten years, it is reasonable that he is then judged for the ten he has committed, but when measuring punishments for each case, individual consideration may be taken into account. Then you can assess the age of the criminal, the circumstances of the criminal act and the brutality of the criminal act. All of this can still be taken into account, even if a penalty is imposed for each specific criminal act.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e260	I was fascinated by Simonsen's finding that all parties in this room, apart from the Progress Party, lack a criminal force. Now what is known to be more than the power to produce fertile results, but nevertheless it is a quite stimulating image. At the same time, I understood the representative Simonsen so that he almost regretted that the proposal he made had a limit of 21 years, and that it would have been even more powerful if you had unlimited access to punishment. I feel compelled to ask a question because I noticed that the representative Simonsen several times said that the principle contained in the proposal he has made is the only logical and the only fair. It must mean that there are barely enough countries, at least in the western part of Europe, which have logical and fair legislation in this area. But why in the vastest world should it not be in Simonsen's own premise that it was the opposite of a quantum discount, namely an increase? Wouldn't that make even more sense? At least it would be even more potent. Why in the vastest world does the representative Simonsen agree with such a puzzling proposal as this when he is so full of power?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e269	For some people who have tried the Viagra pills, it has been shown that there have been adverse side effects. So there's probably a limit there too. For me, having the same power as being hard – that is, hard on the hard ones, as the Minister of Justice recently quoted from the Phantom. That's why I don't have any trouble removing the 21st year limit, and we did that when we put this proposal forward in the last magnification period. This time we had a profitable hope that a moderated proposal would lead to majority voting. Unfortunately, that did not work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e274	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e277	I'm not going to get involved in the debate on power and Viagra at all. In this context, it may well tend to derail something from what this matter is really about. The Christian People's Party shares the concern about the extent of both winning and violence crime. The representatives of Hagen and Simonsen point to the ‘returns’ who experience the ‘quantity rebate’ of the courts as the dearly beloved emergency of society in the face of punishment for each criminal act. There is no reason to ignore the fact that representatives here are focusing on a problem that needs to be addressed. But the Christian People's Party will not follow the reasoning that the punishment for every criminal act should be made simple mathematics, where the individual punishments are added together with two lines under the answer – and march in prison! Today's practice of the Criminal Procedures Act § 13 first paragraph is clearly unfortunate. The principle that different cases against the same person should be brought together in a case often leads to the prosecution being postponed because new criminal offences are emerging in the investigation. We therefore reiterate the comments that express support in different contexts to limit the collection of several criminal offences before the prosecution is brought. We are responding to proposals from the Department on this. The Christian People's Party believes that the vote points to a number of measures that will lead to a reduction in repeat crime. This applies both in the form of reduced discounts and to reducing the reoccurrence of new criminal offences. I refer to the following points: Reduced procedural time and rapid implementation of criminal response are necessary. An opening must be provided to break down the conviction of several criminal offences committed by one and the same person. Extended use of care against the most active repeats. This point has been asked by the Committee to investigate, and we are pleased that the work is in progress. Amendment of the rules on service of judgment and appeal period, as proposed by Advocate General Qvigstad. Fifth, there may be grounds for referring to the possibility of higher criminal penalties for which the applicable criminal framework provides for the opening, including in the application of Section 62 of the Criminal Code. The Christian People's Party agrees with the majority of the Committee that the specific rules of Sections 62 and 63 of the Penal Code must continue to be based on the so-called penal tightening principle. This establishes a common penalty for all the infringements, but with an extended criminal framework. We also want the Government to assess whether the maximum level for the overall penalty measurement should be raised. The current limit has been untouched since 1902. Otherwise, I believe that the rapporteur has had a proper examination of this matter. I find no reason to add anything but that the Christian People's Party believes the ministry and the Government have given feedback to the committee that shows that the issue is being taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e309	What Stein Ulrich addresses is a real problem. We have a practice with a long waiting period for the courts combined with the practice of Section 13 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which says that a criminal has the right to have all cases dealt with against him in a case. This allows some to be charged with both forty and fifty crimes at one time. In these cases, the penalties will rarely be proportionate to the extent of the offences, including: Because of a restriction contained in Section 62 of the Penal Code, which says that one can only get a sentence up to one and a half times the penalty for the most serious crime committed. That's what's called the penal discount system. What is joyous today is that there is a unanimous committee that calls for a change in current practice, the practice that Stein Ulrich and also a number of other policemen want to change. But you have to be a little careful about taking others to income for your own solution proposal. Stein Ulrich's play in the VG on 14 April was based on his article in PEL magazine No. 1 for 1999. There he describes the effects of today's penal discount system, but I can't read a single place in that article that it's the Progress Party model that he agrees with. My point is that the measures proposed today by the majority of the Committee will have the effect of removing today's criminal discount system and achieving what Stein Ulrich and a number of other policemen are asking for. When it comes to taking others to their sight, I would also warn against hijacking the Phantom's jungle, for it's the Phantom's old jungle saying that the Phantom is hard on them. Nor is it something that Jan Simonsen and the Progress Party have invented. What this case shows is that sometimes it pays to be a little patient, and that it pays to cooperate. It is great that all the parties in the Committee this year vote in favour of two proposals promoted by the Right on 4 November 1997 in Document No. 8:21, and who received only the votes of the Advance Party as late as last March. This shows that by taking the time to help it, it may, because the Committee is serious about its comments, end up – and often does – in majority proposals. In addition, the majority, all with the exception of the Progress Party, promotes a proposal to remove today's restriction in the criminal justice system, the rule that no one can be sentenced to a sentence longer than one and a half times the most serious crime being charged. These three proposals together will make it possible for us to avoid what is the concern of the police officers in the future, namely to see that the discounts granted in the criminal system are far too large in relation to what is perceived as reasonable, both by the political majority and by the majority of people. The solution proposed by the Progress Party today is to reintroduce a system from before 1902, to impose a concrete penalty for each crime on each other, regardless of the fact that repeated theft could then be punished more severely than, for example, rape or murder. The only limitation in the proposals of the Progress Party is that no one should be punished for more than 21 years. Sometimes it's worth reading a little bit of history. There were many good reasons why the law was changed in 1902, and that the Stortinget was actually unanimous about the conversion. I have read the big debate from December 3, 1901, as well as the underlying papers, and that is interesting reading. The reason for the change was all the unfair criminal evaluation examples that were documented and that led the Stortinget in 1885 to ask for a commission to be set up to propose changes to address the weaknesses. A Royal Resolution of 14 November 1885 ended after a time in draft new penal code. The old system was a piece of punishment for each of the criminal relationships, with a maximum limit, as the Progress Party proposes today. The conclusion of the Commission's work of 1885 is: «In itself, it seems clear that this system is suffering from a contradiction of its own. Is it true to fully punish the individual crimes, then there cannot be a certain limit, where this suddenly ceases to be true, and it is really not going to be punishable.' So already at the time, the unreasonable thing was that two murders would hit the line quickly, while several thefts would hit the line later, so that the penalty discount on the most serious relationship was greater. Furthermore, once the border was reached, you got full impunity, which is the greatest possible discount. Furthermore, the Commission's work dates from 1885: «Our Laws System has now also been abandoned in most places. Instead of fully condemning all punishments until an absolute limit has been met, it has generally been decided to impose one penalty for all crimes, so that the maximum penalty that can be imposed is high, but that it is also a matter of finding an appropriate punishment." This means that as early as 1885, Norway acknowledged that hardly any country had retained this provision – as it says: ‘Our Law System is now also abandoned in most places’ – as well as that a modern legal society is characterized by the judge’s individual punishment, so that instead of rigid computational judgments, it avoids arbitrariness and leaves the judge’s discretion to find appropriate punishment. In the position of the Justice Committee, Indst. O. In 1901/1902, it was unanimity. And a unanimous agreement to the conversion was given in Stortinget. Since then, Norway has maintained individual criminal proceedings and the cause of the Court’s overall assessment. It is a continuation of this line when the Committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, now wishes to remove the maximum limit of 1 1⁄2 times the penalty for the most serious crime. It also removes the judge's ability to exercise individual judgement, just as the old system did. Today's maximum limit of 1 1⁄2 times, the judge is deprived of the possibility of judging more stringently when it is in place, just as the system from before 1902 effectively deprived the judge of powers to judge more mildly by granting a discount that made the whole correct. The position of the majority today is therefore entirely in line with the principles behind the conversion that began in 1885, 114 years ago, while saying that we want to change today's penal discount system in order to find a better middle-way. The solution to the problem is not in rules from 114 years ago, but in finding future-oriented solutions, which take with them the best from several systems. It requires willingness to cooperate on solutions rather than demonstrate, and it requires willingness to defend individual criminal measures over the automated system. I therefore ask the Minister of Justice to confirm that the work of the three majority proposals of the Committee will be followed up, and that there is agreement that the objective is clearly to remove the unfortunate aspects of today's criminal system, as it works at its maximum limit, and that the Storting can expect concrete proposals back from the Government along these lines.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e353	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e356	I think it is interesting that the Right Representative has to go back to 1885 to find arguments against the proposals of the Progress Party. That otherwise it was unanimity at the time in Stortinget, is probably not so strange. It was a few years before the Progress Party was established. But there's one argument that I can't quite understand, which I would like to explain a little bit better. This claim concerns the fact that the elimination of the quantum discount would eliminate the possibility for the courts to exercise individual judgement. It will of course be that if a person has committed two counts, five counts and a rape, and is given a single sentence for this, he will be sentenced to one sentence, for example for the rape, which is a place between one and ten years of imprisonment, minimum and maximum punishment. In that case, individual judgement will be exercised in determining the penalties applicable to each of the criminal offences. This means that two different individuals, both of whom commit two counts, five burglaries and a rape, will be able to come out with quite significant differences in overall punishment, because there may be different individual circumstances underlying the criminal investigation. So this very claim that there is a restriction in individual judgement, I just can't understand, beyond the one limitation of the maximum sentence of 21 years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e363	My point was not that you have to go all the way back to 1885 to find arguments against the proposals of the Progress Party. My point was that already in 1885 there was a unanimous increase in all the arguments against the proposals of the Progress Party, and that one of the last countries in Europe was leaving its penal system behind. The most important thing about the individual punishment we have today is the judge's overall discretion. As long as the Progress Party insists that one penalty be imposed for each condition, it is different from one penalty for the overall situation. I'm almost going to turn the question on my head: if that's what Jan Simonsen is saying now, that there can be so much discretion in relation to each and every one of the measured punishments that it's really going to be the same as today's judgment, what's the point of the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e373	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e376	Criminal repeaters today account for a large proportion of the total number of winning crimes each year. Many of these people go out and out of prison year after year, without getting to the right place. As soon as they're on the loose, they'll make new crimes again. It is therefore a sobering idea to take these persons out of circulation, as the Progress Party writes in Document No. The 8th proposal. But it becomes completely proportional when the only limitation for convictions of multiple crimes, regardless of the type of crime, is to be the maximum law sentence of 21 years in prison. It could easily lead to unreasonably high penalties which can hardly be said to be worthy of the rule of law. On several occasions it has been pointed out by the Committee that the level of penalties is too low for the crime of gain and violence. In particular, criminal repeaters have achieved a quantum discount that has rightly been characterised as unfair by several teams. But it is far from today's system to the proposal that the Progress Party has made here. It is already with the legislation we have today that we have the right to impose stricter penalties on several criminal cases at the same time. The Committee has also stated in the past that such a tightening of penalties is desirable. We have also seen the first examples that the Supreme Court has increased the penalty level for repeated profitability. However, there is a need on several points to use instruments other than increased penalties. There is one point in particular that I would like to point out in that context. It is today that persecution against one person for several criminal relationships is often united in one case. Very often, it takes a long time for matters to be judged. There is a lot of talk that needs to be more open to continuous judgment. I therefore await with excitement the reactions that come to the consultation note on Section 13 of the Criminal Procedure Act that the Ministry of Justice will issue during the spring. I finally have a little heart attack. Those people who today are called vancriminals don't continue to commit crimes because they don't sit behind the walls long enough. They end up in the same criminal environments because they have nothing else to do with -- because the only way they can feed on is by winning crimes. It must not be in the time that comes, that we coerce one another in who will punish these persons most harshly. More severe prison sentences do not help to address the causes of crime. Very often, the reason is that a person gets on the criminal track, an increase in environments that don't give root or positive challenges. The increase in crime is also linked to the increasing use of alcohol and drugs. The fight against crime must therefore be pursued on a number of levels. As a preventive action against crime, the safe growth environment will be far more important than the ever-increasing call for stricter penalties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e393	There are two main questions we have to deal with in this matter. First of all, it is the proposal to consider extending the maximum penalty limit of 1 1⁄2 times the strictest penalty framework. It's in itself a good proposal, although I have to admit that I have relatively little faith that it will have a very great impact on the punishment measurement. I think you're going to have to look relatively thoroughly to find out where the upper penalty limit of 1⁄2 times the strictest penalty framework actually works in the sense that you get up at this penalty level. However, there may be a certain signal effect in increasing this, in the sense that there may be a signal that you have a desire for a higher level of punishment. The second question we have to deal with is the proposal of the Progress Party for a separate measurement, and then a summation of penalties for each and every criminal offence. I must admit that this belongs to the proposals of the Progress Party which I have never been able to take seriously, in the sense that I have always calculated that these are actually proposals which basically have only one purpose, namely to mark the Progress Party as the party which, as it were, takes criminal acts most seriously, and which should be the most reliable in combating crime. For – with all due respect – I am strongly in doubt about the Progress Party, and in any case Jan Simonsen, would really wish for the results that it was possible to achieve with such a punitive measurement principle. And when you use words like "criminal repeaters," it can actually be a point sometimes to ask the question, who is this? Some of those convicted of a series of crimes are actually young offenders who may not be stopped early enough — well — and who, for that reason, are doing a further series. The second would be quite likely to be people who, for various reasons, commit crimes on a personal basis, and I don't least think of drug addicts. And then you'll be able to have a certain group that commits more criminal acts in a row, which is going to be the ones you might actually think you could punish harder than today. But it will actually only be a small proportion of those who would be affected by such a criminal sanction as the Progress Party here suggests. So a slight repetition also occurs from my side, and then in relation to the case rapporteur, who again stresses that the level of punishment should be so much lower than people's perception of justice. I can never help not to think that we combine the courts so that we have very many so-called ordinary people with. In another case, a little earlier this year, we've also been concerned that there might be a little unusual people, in the sense that they had to look too much like ourselves since they're largely politicians -- if that's what made them deviate from being ordinary people. And then it becomes a little bit weird if the outcome of these bodies' decisions is going to be so very much in conflict with people's general perception of justice. There's actually reason to ask questions about it. When we say that the level of punishment today is too low for repeat crime and one then refers to a judgment in the Supreme Court of December 1997, in a way also becomes my question: Is it still too low, or has not the Supreme Court by that judgment made the adjustment that makes us now likely to have a proper level of punishment? One cannot in one way continue to talk about these things without taking into account that judgment gave a clear signal of a change in the legal situation. One more thing: the discount actually has a lot of favorable sides. In any case, it probably means that we have a much higher percentage of information about crime than we would otherwise have. For one effect, in fact, people admit the actions they've done to far greater extent than they might have done with such a system as the Progress Party has expressed their desire. But there's every reason to look at the other questions that you're dealing with, and there's no need to see this criminal discount as an advantage to the perpetrator. There is no advantage for people to be allowed to commit as many criminal acts as possible. And when we have the discount, part of the point is -- it might be a little naive -- the belief that punishment has an individual preventive effect. That's exactly why you put emphasis on relationships before and after the judgment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e415	I have listened with great interest to the debate on document No. The 8-proposal that Mr Hagen and Mr Simonsen have put forward to amend the so-called discount scheme on which Section 62 of the Penal Code provides instructions. Like my predecessor, former Minister of Justice Aud-Inger Aure, I cannot join Document No. The 8th proposal. I refer so far to the letter of 18 January this year to the Committee on Legal Affairs, which is attached to the Committee's position. On the other hand, I can broadly agree with the Committee's recommendations, which I shall comment on in a moment on the point. I am pleased to note that the majority of the Committee has not been caught up in the zeal of the Progress Party in proposing solutions to complex and complex problems. On the other hand, I am not pleased to note that the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party believe that the principle of penance is a ‘pure call on criminals to commit more crimes’. I am also surprised to see that these members of the Committee see me as a ‘supporter of the criminals’. I'm also concerned about fighting crime. In particular, I give high priority to the fight against repeat crime and the serious crime. I also believe that the criminal prosecution practices of the courts should be strengthened to some extent. But if we are to be able to fight crime effectively, we need a constructive and nuanced debate. I am pleased that the Committee proposes to reject the proposal to reintroduce the principle of cumulation in Norwegian punitive measures. This principle, which is based on the establishment of a penalty for each and every offence that is then finally added together, was already abandoned at the time of the adoption of the penal code in 1902, which the representative Krohn Devold documented and endorsed. The number of committees wants me to keep the principle of punishment tightening, on which § 62 of the Penal Code is now based. The criminal aggravation principle implies the establishment of a common penalty for all offences at the same time but with an extended criminal framework. In this context, I recall that in January 1995 the Stortinget rejected a corresponding Document No. Eight motions by Mr Simonsen. With regard to the Committee's recommendation for a decision under II, I can say the following: The Government will make proposals for changes to the law to prevent the collection of crimes prior to the criminal reaction. During the spring, the Ministry of Justice will issue a letter of consultation such as: contains proposals for an embellishment of the rules on the unification of criminal matters. The proposal aims to make it more possible to assess in concrete terms whether it is appropriate to break down the judgment of several criminal offences committed by the same person. The Ministry of Justice has also launched an investigation into the need to amend legislation and practices on the detention of criminal revenants. Increased use of custody may prevent these criminals from committing new criminal offences – which are subsequently collected – while waiting for the criminal proceedings against them to be brought before the courts. The Ministry first asked for the Riksadvokat's view of the matter, and I await the Riksadvokat's answer. In the State budget for 2000, the government will present concrete measures to reduce the time lag between criminal activity and criminal response. The proposal to amend the rules on the unification of criminal cases, which I just mentioned, can also have the effect of reducing the time between the criminal offence and the reaction. Delays due to the fact that criminal proceedings still have to be postponed are avoided because of new circumstances. The same letter of consultation will also include proposals for amendments to the rules governing the service of judgment and the time limit for appeal. If it is introduced as a general rule that the judgment in criminal matters takes place at a court meeting where the defendants are present, while the appeal period begins to run from the date of the judgment, delays in the settlement of the case due to the fact that the judgment has to be served by the police can be avoided. We know that in some of our big cities, perhaps in a city like Oslo in particular, this becomes such a significant practical problem that it in itself often leads to delays in the criminal proceedings. Similarly, increased use of custody could reduce the time that goes by, because the defendant/prosecuted person is less able to incur new criminal offences that could delay the settlement of the case. Other concrete measures may also be relevant. It has long been a high priority for the Ministry of Justice to reduce the length of proceedings in criminal matters. Much has already been done in this area, and the work continues with unreduced strength. I briefly mention as possible means an increase in the number of posts in the courts and an increase in the legal capacity, more efficient use of IT, and other measures that can improve the use of existing resources. This will be brought to a close by the Government in the context of the State budget. I underline the importance of looking at the criminal case chain as a whole. It is also important that the choice of measures is based on a careful assessment of whether the measures have the intended effect. It's also how I'm very concerned about what we can call the balance in the criminal case chain. One has rightly strengthened the police in recent years, but it is important to make sure that one does not get a bias over what the courts, the prison system and others in this chain are about to do, and I am concerned about that issue. If we don't make this work together, the ideal goals in one of these areas, for example. the police, lead to failure to achieve the efficiency you want. I also mention that earlier this year the Ministry of Justice organized a symposium with broad participation from among others. courts and lawyers on the criminal case chain. Speed in the criminal justice chain was a central issue. I was also recently present at the annual meeting of the National Association of Politicians, where they were just asked to sweep for their own door in the criminal proceedings chain. Instead of sweeping for others, it was discussed how the police lawyers, the prosecutors, could get help from everyone else — defenders, actor, national attorney — to sharpen up to do their job better. I personally seem to meet such a culture that is prepared to address the challenges that you yourself face is something very constructive. It's often in this country so that we think it's better to sweep at the door of others, and every time we meet someone who celebrates for themselves, with the motto that once they've done it, they have a much bigger right to talk to others, it's all the more encouraging. I notice this mentality in many places in the system I am now responsible for. The government is prepared to consider a further amendment to Section 62 of the Criminal Code so that there will be access to a stricter maximum penalty than today. I do not have a firm opinion today about how this should be done. You can, for example. think that the ceiling will be raised to twice the penalty level for the most serious relationship, towards today and a half times. However, this needs to be examined in more detail in the department and, where appropriate, sent to the hearing before a legislative proposal can be submitted to the Stortinget. I want to follow up these points of view, of course, because I share the assessments that are behind them. However, I must warn against excessive expectations of the effect of any change in the discount rule. Even today, the sanctions within the limits imposed by § 62 are very well known, and they are not fully exploited by the courts. If a higher level of punishment is desired, changes in the practice of the courts are more important than changes in the law. But I do not exclude that a change that the Committee asks the Government to assess may have a certain signal effect. In a judgment of December 1997 — to which several of the representatives have referred — Supreme Court, which draws up the guidelines for the criminal investigation within the criminal framework, has stated that the discount in practice for the criminal evaluation of a larger number of winning crimes had become too high. The level of penalties should therefore be raised in order to achieve a better match between criminal response and criminality. It is preliminary to say something about the effect that the judgment will have, but I have the hope that the courts will be loyal to the Supreme Court. In this way, I believe that having dealt with the various issues raised in this case – and which I share with the rapporteur’s view of hanging together – and that, in sum, when they are followed up, will have the effect of speeding up the criminal procedure and avoiding the criticism that comes from people’s perception of how the law should be practised, by simply shortening the time frame. This also avoids the accumulation of cases for repeaters. In my opinion, it will also strengthen confidence in the whole chain of criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e461	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e464	I just want to make a quick comment on some of the last state council's comments, saying that he was a little uncertain about the effect of the criminal investigation by changing the one-half-way rule. In the Justice Committee's meeting with the Supreme Court, it was clearly clarified that comments from the Committee on ordinary matters are considered to be post-workers of the law and thus do not have a very high status in the Supreme Court. It was also made quite clear that if we make comments in connection with an odelstinging case – odelsting settings are read by the Supreme Court – it will be seen as the pre-worker of the law and will be given a very high status, and thus may have an impact in criminal proceedings. I assume that the Council of State shares the view of this clarification, so that we do not here underestimate the very importance it has of running through an affluent case that gives us the opportunity to clarify our view, since there are remarks here that are to be regarded as the preprocessor of the law, and that thus will have a direct effect on the judgment of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e474	Of course, I'm not underestimating it. Since Gunnar Knudsen clearly placed the power relationship between the Supreme Court and the Stortinge during the concession battle, no one is in doubt that what the Stortinge says is being noticed. I also share the opinion that the representative has now expressed. My wonder is probably more related to the fact that there are already wide criminal frameworks within the paragraph, and that it is therefore crucial in practice how the court perceives it. But, of course, I have no doubt that the Court will follow in the comments that are linked to a case like this, which also goes on the relations within the criminal chain. I'm not in doubt about that. That's how the representative Krohn Devold has expressed it, and I share her view on that point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e481	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have also not asked for the floor to be answered, so the debate on the matter is no. 3 ended. [[Footing, see page 510]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e497	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 15 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to the exchange of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and after the submissions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e508	The position of the Judicial Committee in this case concerns a number of proposals which could individually justify a separate debate. It only underscores, in my opinion, the weakness of using Document No. Eight proposals to deal with such extensive and diverse proposals – not least in an area that affects important aspects of our rule of law. But I assume that the proposers were primarily concerned with demonstrating their action and providing quick and simple answers on the basis of a heated media description of acts of violence and criminal activity. As one journalist described this in the Evening Post of February 18th this year: ‘On the other hand, the media can become, by means of uncritical violence, a microphone stand for politicians and political parties with short-term self-benefit as a driving force.’ More police and more stringent sanctions have been prescribed. This was made clear by the budget compromise last autumn, when the centre parties were pressed by the Right and the Progress Party to fill the police budget by 100 million. DKK, but had to reduce the school leisure scheme by 130 million. kr. It is then, I believe, that the simple solutions are preferred to the holistic approach to combating crime. A good criminal policy must continue to build on the two main prevention strategies to prevent criminal acts and reactions when committed. It requires that the whole be preserved not only in word use but also when money is to be distributed. I refer to a report that describes the situation in some youth settings in Oslo, where the vast majority of politicians put the emphasis on the prevention side. I'm going to let this happen in terms of criminal policy in general. Furthermore, I would like to explain the position of the Committee or of the majority in relation to the specific proposals in Document No. 8:18. The majority of the Committee does not support the proposal to lower the criminal detainee, which would allow 14-year-olds to be sentenced to prison sentences. The proposers claim that these should not be sentenced to prison, but the options launched in Document No. The 8 proposal, based on a general reduction of the criminal detainee, requires the acceptance of the use of prison sentences against 14-year-olds. The alternatives are, of course, subject to a subsidiary prison sentence. In the majority’s view, the primary responsibility for responding and taking action against children who commit criminal acts lies with parents and the public services. We also focus on joint efforts and cooperation, including: The home of children, the school system, child protection and the police are being involved. So it's not to be misunderstood: although we don't want to judge children to prison, we also take seriously the increase in crimes committed by people under the criminal detainee in recent years. It is particularly important to combat and prevent crime among children and young people as early as possible. Here we take the signals from the local community in Oslo and the politicians there: most people want to put the emphasis on prevention. However, children under the criminal detainee who commit criminal offences must also face clear demarcation and rapid reaction. In ‘reaction’ we put a broader understanding than punishment under the law. It will cover everything from parental intervention, the use of conflict advice and child protection measures to traditional criminal sanctions for them over the criminal detainee. The community must react to criminal acts. In Document No: 8:18 it is proposed that the department should set up a child-criminal election. We believe that it is important to have an overall plan of action and action in relation to children and young people in combating criminal acts, which refers to both prevention and possible response options after crime is committed. I raised this in a question to the Minister of Justice in January and received a positive answer – which was later confirmed by the Prime Minister. There may be a few opportunities for discussion on the whole, similar to the action plan on violence that was addressed in the context of the year’s budget. The need for an overall effort has also become apparent in relation to the recent weeks’ discussion of parts of the youth environment in the capital. The Committee therefore asks the Government to promote such an overall plan during 1999. How the processing of such a plan is organized is the responsibility of the Government, but I see clearly that it must include efforts from several departments. We want to go here, among other things. based on the view of the majority at the Inn. O. No 49 for 1998-99, which has recently been addressed, on the issue of amending the Child Protection Act with a view to preventing crime or as part of a subsequent response to criminal offences. The starting point here is that child protection services should be an aid body for children and families, not a response body in the criminal justice area. In Document No: The 8 proposal has been proposed to lower the penalty limit for the use of custody. The Labour Party and the majority of the Committee stress the fundamental principle of criminal law that a person should be considered innocent and not be punished until after the judgment has been given. Penalties shall not be forged in the form of custody prison. The conditions for the use of custody today are the minimum conditions for suspecting a criminal offence which may result in a sentence higher than six months of imprisonment and, in addition, for a specific ground for imprisonment, in particular a risk of avoidance, loss of evidence or recurrence. Document No The 8 proposal deals with the derogation that can be applied to the most serious cases in which custody is opened even if there is no specific grounds for imprisonment. Today’s rules must include a crime which may result in a prison sentence for 10 years or more, or attempts at such a crime. Typical examples here are murder, rape, and brutal punishment. The requirement for suspicion is significantly strengthened in these cases. The purpose of this provision is to counteract the shock of people's sense of justice and to lose confidence in the judicial system by freeing the perpetrator of serious crimes to conviction. The majority believe that today’s rule of exception is a correct and important provision, but believe that it must be limited to the most serious cases. Penalties shall not be forged in the form of custody prisons and further powers of use of custody may dilute the principle of innocence until proven guilty. I have no hopes for the Progress Party in this area, but it is with a certain regret that I record that the Right seems to be ignoring legal certainty in order to compete with the Progress Party on tough potential criminal policy. This is not only my opinion, but I have recorded that the same views were expressed at the National Council of the Right. I have noticed that legal certainty is not at all discussed in the comments made by the Right and the Advance Party in the vote. The majority consider it to be objectionable to lower the penalty limit in the exemption provision. Such an extension of custody would result in a complete change in the nature of the custody institution; it would, by far, have the character of a pre-empted criminal regime for a number of new types of offences. The Labour Party and the majority also oppose extending access to custody of persons under 18 years of age. The provisions in force are not being practised as a prohibition on custody, even if the courts are initially somewhat reserved. Prison of Varet is still taking place, especially in serious cases. The majority believe that persons under the age of 18 should initially not be held in custody. Prison of Varet is a greater stress than the general prison sentence and provides a special impression for minors. It is also a consequence of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child that detention against minors should only be a last resort. The community has the opportunity to protect itself against serious criminals under 18 years of age, but the majority are satisfied that the courts are cautious about the detention of minors and will therefore not be in favour of a decoration of the legislation. Earlier this year, the Storting adopted the incorporation of international human rights conventions into Norwegian legislation — unanimously. It appears from this that custody imprisonment, which takes place solely on the basis of the gravity of the crime, would be contrary to the Conventions and that caution should be exercised in extending the system of custody. Norway has also received criticism of current care practices because, compared with other European countries, we often use care over long periods of time. Accession to international conventions will only become a mouthache when this is not even included in the comments on such a matter that we are now dealing with. According to surveys, there are a large number of persons who have been released from custody. Many of them had a long time in custody behind them. I believe that this is a legal security problem even within today's legislation. I am not going to go into solutions here and now to reduce the scope of, and especially the length of, custody, but I am convinced that faster criminal proceedings at all stages will be central. It brings me to the faster court proceedings and the proposal for a reserved room at Oslo Byrett. Rapid response is an important tool in the fight against crime. The main objective must be to reduce the overall duration of proceedings in the courts. In the case of high-speed courts, progress has been made beyond the scope of the proposal. In Oslo Byrett, there are already two courts in which the police and prosecution authorities themselves can deal with cases. One courtroom is reserved for cases where the defendants are in custody, and repeaters and victims of violence make up a large part of them. Further action is now being considered to give priority to young offenders and repeaters. The whole Committee agrees with such a priority. The experience from Oslo – and many other places – with reserved courts and accelerated treatment has been positive, and the Committee believes that this needs to be implemented in several places throughout the country. However, we would also stress the need to ensure legal certainty for individuals – in fact, the whole committee does. Cases must not be brought through in such a rapid manner in the courts that legal certainty is jeopardized. The Justice Committee was recently on a study visit to New York. It includes, inter alia: a visit to a rapid court, where, in cases of a less serious nature, a decision was taken quickly after an appeal, and a settlement was started — usually community service. Crime and social auxiliaries, e.g. drug-related abuse was located in close proximity to the court. Through close cooperation with municipal authorities and the judiciary, the content of the criminal implementation became a way back to society. The Committee considers that the Government should consider such a model in the context of further measures to prioritise young offenders and offenders in the judicial system. It will, of course, be most topical in populace areas where the number of cases is large enough. The question of the search for the seizure of weapons has been much discussed. The Committee will wait here for consideration of the proposal in the present position until the Government promotes its announced proposal for a visitation authorisation in the Police Act. We assume that the Government will come to Stortinget with proposals that will allow the matter to be closed before the summer. I will not prejudge the discussion, just say on behalf of the Workers' Party that we are prepared to give the police the necessary powers to combat illegal possession of weapons. But I would also like to stress here that the Oslo police have significantly increased the seizures of weapons by more active use of existing legislation. The last proposal the Committee has taken on board is the question of raising the maximum amount for the objective liability of parents. The Labour Party and the majority do not support the proposal to raise this amount from NOK 5000 to NOK 20 000. The majority here indicates that the maximum amount was raised from NOK 1000 to NOK 5000 as late as 1995. So it's the objective liability of parents; the responsibility for events that they haven't necessarily known about or ruled over. The liability of the parents for the actions of children does not apply to any limit on the amount of compensation, and the Law states that children and young people have a separate responsibility for compensating for damages committed negligently or intentionally, where reasonable. There is no certain basis for supposing that raising the amount will have an impact on the development of crime. The majority will underline the speciality and the special difficulties, for example: a single mother or father may have, both in terms of the economy and in terms of the possibility of averting harmful acts. A further increase in the amount limit may, rather, lead to a more frequent relieving issue. The majority then believe that the main point of objective responsibility will fall. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e572	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e575	First of all, of course, I would strongly reject the fact that the Right is ignoring legal certainty. The fact that a handful of participants at the Right National Meeting express something in that direction should hardly be used as proof of truth. Now I haven't been to the national meetings of the Workers' Party – it's possible it's pure idyll there – but I mean to have seen in the newspapers that there may also be a slightly different view. Apart from the fact that there is practically an overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, clearly in the process of making a careful intensification because we see that we have had a crime trend that has gone wrong. This is a joyous development. Therefore, I should be relatively mild to Vidar Bjørnstad, who uses this opportunity to attack the Right. I want to ask him two questions first and foremost. First of all, Vidar Bjørnstad is sorry that the police got 100 million. kr on its budgets? If he wanted to tell the police that if the Workers' Party had got what they wanted, the budgets would have been 100 million. kr lower, as at the original proposal of the Workers' Party? So this is about setting up the school leisure scheme against the police budget. It is not easy to understand how a government cut in the school leisure scheme in force for the 1999 budget year could affect the development of crime, for example. In 1998, or — to put it that way — a crime trend that has continued for almost 30 years, leading to a sixfold doubling of crime, and which is why we are jointly in favour of this intensification. How can a State cut into the 100 - million school vacation scheme? For the 1999 financial year, are there any influence on the police budget?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e586	It is a fact, as the comments from the Right and the Advance Party show, that some of the intensifications and proposals for stricter penalties resulting from the proposal for a document do not at all assess the level of legal certainty and, for example: assesses how this relates to international conventions, such as: was one of the foundations that the ministry gave us in the letter of reply to the committee. I think that's a little remarkable, because we have to take into account the principles of the state of law, precisely the point that one is innocent to the contrary is proven. But in some areas, one says that for the most serious cases, for example: in the use of care, there are also opportunities here to give greater emphasis to evidence, to take account of the most serious crime and to allow society to defend itself against it. When it comes to the issue of the police budget, we in the Labour Party did not have that money when dealing with the budget last autumn, because we then chose to protect the school leisure system. It is not certain that cuts in one area lead to one adding on another, but there is no doubt that that compromise contained, among other things, the compromise. cuts in the school leisure system. That's when I record that all Oslo politicians put the emphasis on prevention youth work, on youth services, to fight crime in the youth environments. And there is no doubt that cuts in the school leisure system in the state budget mean cuts in the municipalities around. What is actually happening now is that under the leadership of the Right and the Advance Party, Oslo will take this up again and propose an increased effort towards this offer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e593	The President of the Court of First Instance, Vidar Bjørnstad, withdraws legal certainty. Then I would like to ask Bjørnstad whether he is not aware of the fact that the Swedish Supreme Court's Committee on Love has established that § 172 does not conflict either with the European Convention on Human Rights or with resolutions on detention by the Council of Europe's Ministerial Committee, cf. Norwegian Court of Justice 1987, p. 1285. This is also referred to in Professor Johs. Andenæs' book Norwegian Criminal Procedure, Volume 2. I would also like to ask Vidar Bjørnstad if he is not aware that since 1978 Denmark has had a custody clause equivalent to our § 172, but with a penalty frame down to six years, i.e. beyond what the Right has proposed. So the question is, isn't Vidar Bjørnstad familiar with these facts because he can claim that the Right's proposal is not in line with legal certainty and what is accepted under the Human Rights Convention?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e602	I have not claimed that the penal paragraph that we have in our legislation today conflicts with some human rights conventions. In fact, I said that I believe that it is an important and correct provision, one that takes into account the general sense of people's justice against the most serious criminal cases. I also believe that it is necessary to use this paragraph, and there may be cases where one should actually use it more than today. However, the question now is whether to generally lower the penalties limits where an individual has international conventions to limit an extended regime for the use of custody. We have also received a good deal of international criticism for our use of custody, both in scope and length. And in that situation, we simply choose to say that the use of Section 172, which is an exception in relation to the ordinary use of custody, but where the evidence must be stronger, should actually be limited to the most serious cases of crime, because otherwise one could make the custody institution something completely new, where a user has custody of the shooting of punishment. There may be some things here that make the Right should actually have commented and assessed this in connection with their comments in the setting of the document we have before us here today. However, legal certainty assessments are not at all included by the Right and Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e611	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e614	Most of the proposals presented in this document No. The 8 proposal from the Right is, of course, things that all move in the right direction, and that should easily have a majority from a unanimous greatness. Nevertheless, when only the Right Party and the Advance Party support these proposals, it shows how far from the reality of the government parties and the Workers' Party are. The naivety of today's crime seems to be quite limitless. The right in its time was accomplice in the fact that the criminal lavalry was set up from 14 to 15 years. Now the party is struggling to get it down again. It is regrettable that we are not succeeding. It is easy to sympathize with a 14-year-old who commits serious crime. He's so young and probably doesn't understand what he's doing, is the usual naive performance. In the real world, it's like, among other things. is described in the film ‘Schpaa’, recently shown in Norwegian cinematic dishes, many 14-year-olds today are hard-skinned vancriminals, who are a danger to younger children and their peers and who run errands for older friends associated with organised criminal environments. If these young people are not stopped at the beginning of their criminal career, they will end up in a debauchery they will not be able to get out of. Those parties that are not willing to reduce the criminal lavalry, these young people do a bear service. They deprive society of many opportunities for effective delimitation. Proposals want to establish a separate custody system/institution for hard juvenile criminals that sort under child protection. That's absolutely a good idea. Similarly, youth prisons, institutions, for offenders from 14 years of age and up should be established. Of course, special pedagogues and not just prison guards can be employed in these institutions. Young people should be offered treatment for any drug problem and an appropriate educational provision. At the beginning of the 1990s, state schools for children and young people with behavioural problems were closed down. It was a big loss and had to end up in increased juvenile delinquency. These schools were used for students who did not attend ordinary school because they stole from fellow students, bullied fellow students, cheated at the school, smoked hashish or snorted — they were school losers who were unable to follow the teaching and instead destroyed other students. At special schools, they received adapted education, and they met adults who were able to set limits on their behavior. There helped many of these children get on a criminal track, and it prevented other students from being destroyed by bullying. We should get something that looks like these behavioral schools. Proposalers will increase the financial responsibility of parents for the actions of their children. This is a good proposal, which the Progress Party has also proposed on previous occasions. The right has a strange relationship with the issue of custody. In a Document No: Last year, 8 proposals suggested that the party reduce the use of custody prisons. Now the party proposes more use of custody prison. The right thing to do should be to allocate more budgetary resources to the courts and to introduce rapid courts, so as to minimise the time from the point of view and from the point of view of judgment. At the same time, courts should be better placed to use custody. In cases where a person has been admitted to burglary, robbery or violence, detention should almost always be used, because there is hardly any possibility of a case where there is no risk of recurrence. Of course, a person who has shamed a victim will be able to do the same again the next time he drinks too much alcohol. A person arrested for a long break-in line is, of course, per person. definition of a common criminal and, of course, will be able to commit new infringements in time until conviction if he is not held in custody. The signals that we as legislators should give to the judiciary are that the slightest risk of repetition should lead to custody imprisonment. In addition, the law should be amended, as proposed by the proposers. At the same time, however, politicians should realise their responsibility for not having to wait too long, through a strong upgrading of the courts. In this context, both the Workers' Party and the current government parties should have a reasonably poor conscience. It is not precisely these parties that have proposed the largest allocations to the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e635	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e639	Last fall, we dealt with the criminal welfare report, where we took care of a number of different ways of making amends. In today's setting, the Right Party and the Advance Party are together to propose, among other things: shall use conditional judges, community services and electronic surveillance in relation to criminals between 14 and 15 years of age. I can't see anywhere in the attitude of criminal justice that it was at all mentioned that this would change so that this might not also be under threat of a subsidiary prison sentence. If it is the case that one believes that a person should use conditional prison, community service and electronic surveillance, it must mean that it is within the current legislation on acquittal, such as today, which means a subsidiary use of prison sentences. In contrast to what is said, does it not mean that a non-used prison for 14-year-olds actually implies the principle of the use of prison for 14-year-olds?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e644	My position is that electronic surveillance, or so-called home-sonship, should only be used as a substitute in cases where conditional penalties are imposed today and not as a substitute for unconditional imprisonment. Contingent penalties should be applied significantly less than what you are doing today. But what you're talking about in this context is a reduction in the criminal lavalry and the responses to people in their 14th century. It is clear that it will take a little more time to put these in prison. But I am a member of juvenile prisons in the form of institutions, but they must have a special character, as I explained in my introduction. There should be specialised educators who should receive a training offer tailored to their level, and there they should be helped to deal with their drug problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e651	I would just like to make a brief comment on a statement, Mr President. Simonsen came into his post, that the right at one moment went in to use more care, and at the next moment went in to use less care. It's possible this topic is a little nuanced, but I'm using the opportunity here to clarify important shades. Firstly, with regard to the police arrest, for which we in Norway have been criticized, it is clear to the Right that it was right to reduce the use of police arrests. Secondly, in the context of the general provisions on custody in Section 171, it is clear to the Right that it is being used too much for one main reason: waiting time between the first and second instance of the court. And after getting the two-institutional system, it has led to a very extended use of custody, which can only be brought down by giving more money to the courts. But then we have the third point, Section 172, which goes on the exception provisions for custody, and which relates to matters where one expects to have known the perpetrator, and where it is a very serious violence. It's an area we want a moderate expansion of. This is nuanced, but it's important to be clear. My appeal to the Progress Party's Jan Simonsen is to confirm that the Right in the settings we've been in, has both given more money to the courts and has supported the tightening up of the police arrest.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e664	I thank you for the clarification. I am not going to go into any long polemics with the Right in this case, where we are standing together on all the proposals. I guess we'll say it so that document no. The 8-proposal that came from the representative Jan Johnsen and others early in the ageing period, probably wasn't very thoughtful. At the same time, I understand that it is possible to wish for a shorter maintenance period and at the same time more use of care, for shorter maintenance periods can be achieved by strengthening the courts. And I agree that the Right has been involved in strengthening the courts through its proposals in budgetary proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e671	The representative Simonsen invites us to "the world of reality," as he says. At the same time, he creates a picture that there are many 14-year-olds who are repeat offenders. My question to the representative is, how many are actually involved? It's 10 pst. of the 14-year-olds who are in the situation that they repeat and repeat crimes, or are 20 pst.? Or is it that the Progress Party is trying to produce this so that there are so many and it is so dangerous that we need more police? Another thing that the representative Simonsen repeats is that it's nice to use school as a punishment. When we discussed the special schools and their closure, it was precisely that problem that pedagogy was to be used as punishment. Then I would like to ask the representative Simonsen what results he can show where special schools have been used as a penalty method. How well has it turned out for the children who have been to these schools? We had a pretty big debate in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s about work schools for children. Mountain work school was one of them. They had 90 pst. in the repetition of crime. Is that the situation that the representative of the Progress Party will have left?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e680	This is almost like the old days when I and the representative Fossum put together in the Church and Education Committee and discussed the closure of the state behavioural schools. These behavioral schools had two main functions. The first was to help the students who were left in ordinary school, so that they were not bullied by these students with behavioral problems, and so that they could learn and avoid becoming victims — many victims often become criminals. The second function was not to punish, but to help -- help those students who had behavioral problems, get rid of their behavioral problems, help those students who were school losers, get adapted education in these special schools, and help these students from entering a criminal career by putting them in a place where adult people were able to set limits on the behaviour of these students. It is also the point of youth institutions — both under child protection, as proposed by the proposers, and of the desire of the Progress Party to have similar institutions, or to call it prison institutions, for young criminals — to ensure that their limits are set. You can also get hold of them when you place them in these institutions, and then you can give them help at the same time, for example. for the drug problems they may have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e687	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e690	The many important questions we are dealing with today are about what kind of society we want. There is not much political disagreement that we want a society with a social network that captures children and young people at an early stage before they end up on the slope, a society that takes care of people who have been subjected to criminal acts, in a good way, and that makes rapid reactions to the behaviour of the perpetrators, reactions that are also proportionate to the actions of the perpetrator. It may seem that some people believe that the Christian People's Party, the Center Parties and the Government are not concerned with the point of reaction to the perpetrators. It's all wrong! Government parties are and have been involved in it. Today’s debate is largely about the measures/means we are going to take against the perpetrators. When it comes to reducing criminal detainees to 14 years, the Christian People's Party will conclude that it is a problem that older criminals use children/young people under criminal detainees to commit criminal acts. But the question is whether we're going to solve this problem by lowering the lavalier to 14 years. Christian People's Party doesn't believe it. Let's imagine that this was done. What do we do when we discover that 13-year-olds are used to do the actions of 14-year-olds today? Is the lavalier going to go down to 13 or 12 years? Even children under school age have been used for criminal acts, for example: to transport drugs. These relationships are not solved by lowering the criminal valvaldeler. We have to go into the individual case and find out the reasons why children come into contact with a criminal environment so early in life, and so few measures are put in place that do something about the causes and solve the problems. There are already good alternatives that can be used. For example, conflict advice: over 90 pst. by the cases dealt with by the conflict management board are resolved by agreement. The conflict councils can take matters quickly, the perpetrator meets the victim personally, and the perpetrator receives a response as a result of the action. Action may be taken by the Child Welfare Service. Parents, child protection and other public services — school and police — should work together to find solutions to these cases. A lot of useful drugs can also be obtained from the Crime Prevention Council and other agencies. I also allow myself to point to prevention measures that are important, which deal with this by taking children seriously and listening to what they experience as difficult. It's important to praise what they do well. It is important that adults do not accept bullying and violence between children and young people or teachers and children. We've read the last few days that 17 pst. gets bullied by his teacher. It is important that organized education is provided, so that young people feel that they are successful and do not always fall short. The Christian People's Party believes that there should be a wider range of measures than today's situation exists, among other things. because we see an increase in the types of crime that we haven't had so much of before, and because some of the perpetrators of this crime are younger and more burdened than before. Who are the perpetrators of what actions and why? And what can you do to make them stop doing these actions? It is important to examine the situation in order to put the right measures in place in the right areas. This is why we support the proposal that the Government should present an overall plan of action and measures to combat criminal acts among children and young people, including responses as well as prevention measures. The Christian People's Party would stress that preventing crime among children and young people and responding to such behaviour is a responsibility that not only lies in the justice sector, but how many different actors must be involved: parents and schools, the growing-up environment, the health and social sector, the cultural sector – many have a responsibility here. With regard to the objective responsibility of parents for their children's harmful acts in the damages law, the Christian People's Party believes that for most people in today's Norway, $5,000 is still quite a lot of money, and if the hopeful pod causes a cost of that size, there will probably be reactions in most homes. The Christian People's Party would stress that it is already the authority today to impose liability on parents – and there is no money limit here – if the parents can be reproached for the actions of children. The proposal to increase the objective responsibility of parents can have a social impact; it will affect families with low incomes much harder than families with good finances.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e709	I will begin by taking a very strong distance from a claim made by the representative of Bjørnstad, namely that this action plan was produced as a result of a desire to appear as a force for action on the basis of statements made in the media. I have to say that personally I rarely react as strongly as when children and young people are subjected to violence, threats and abuse. The questions I ask myself are always the same: Why was no one intervening? Why was there no one who took responsibility earlier? And how can I help prevent this from repeating itself? That commitment I expect to be believed in. The victims of the children's pros and cons who were in the court of the autumn reported in a year with fear of the invaders, fear of standing in the courtroom and advice from adult professionals not to report it could be dangerous. Many drew the reviews, and a child fainted in court and dared not tell his story. Now we've had a heartbreaking event in Sogndal. A boy was so plagued by racist bullies that he ended up in high school. That's not enough. We now know that the boy died after he was chased by the plague spirits. Who took responsibility for securing the victim? It wasn't done! My commitment is that it cannot continue like this. We must ensure that such actions face consequences for the perpetrators. We need to make sure that children and young people who experience this can turn to adult society for help. In this way, I would like to thank the representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen of the Christian People's Party, who said that there was a need for more action than what we have today. There are people who are responsible for implementing a consequence after there has already been an infringement. It is not that prevention is not important, because it is very important! But the introduction of a consequence is also preventative. At least it would seem that way to those kids who had been operating for two to three years. If they had been stopped earlier, there would have been far fewer victims. What I want is an engagement from all parties on the Storting, with different ideological points of view and solutions, so that we all help to answer the question: what consequence do we want to enforce for assaults that have already occurred? I don't rule out anyone finding better solutions than the Right has found, so humble I am. But I have problems with the lack of solutions that is going on today. The majority agree that offences committed by children under 15 years of age are ‘to be met with clear demarcation and a rapid response’. But what reaction? Neither electronic house arrest nor community service can be used for lawbreakers under the lavender. Another way to react is to place the parents financially at risk. 5000 kroner for each crime is low in relation to the damage done on a car or on a dwelling. In other words, access to ‘limping’ is still a matter for which no funds are available or cannot be blamed. But there are situations where parents should take responsibility earlier, and where they have money. Leaders of the Oslo Children’s Guard took part in the autumn media debate on the searchees and pointed out, among other things. the lack of means to initiate a response. I therefore believe that this review of the instruments is absolutely necessary, and I am very pleased with the unanimity of the Committee in asking for an action plan submitted for the autumn. It's as good as a quick selection. Following a very concrete incident in 1963, the Stortinget introduced § 172 of the Criminal Procedures Act, the so-called law enforcement sentence, which is an exception to the ordinary custody clause. What happened in 1963 was that a drosser was released from the hearing because the normal provisions on custody could not be used. The audience reacted to the fact that the perpetrator of such a serious crime was released, and that is why Section 172 was introduced to counteract the feeling of insecurity and lack of trust in the law enforcement of society that could result from serious offenders being released during the case. The position of the Criminal Procedures Committee in relation to the background to the provision is as follows: ‘If there is an outrageous and cruel crime that has shaken the general public, it will respond easily to the fact that the defendants will be able to walk freely and freely until final judgment is passed — a sentence that will probably be the result of the fact that the defendants will be deprived of the freedom for many years to come. Nor from the point of view of sight will it be beneficial for him to remain free of charge: however, he will not be able to continue his normal life and daily work.» It is important to clarify that, contrary to the ordinary provision of Section 171, the exemption provided for in Section 172 has a significantly increased requirement for suspicion, i.e.: that the perpetrator is likely to be known. At the time of the adoption of this derogation, it also covered the normal rule of law. It covered it from 1963 to 1984. Then the penalties for normal punishment were halved from ten to five years, and thus suddenly that category of crime fell outside § 172. So the right-hand proposal is to reintroduce a system we had from 1963 to 1984. The Supreme Court's Committee of Appeals concluded, as I was in my reply to Vidar Bjørnstad, that § 172 does not conflict with either the European Convention on Human Rights or with resolutions on detention by the Council of Europe's Ministerial Committee. We know that since 1978 Denmark has had a penalty framework down to six years, which is in line with what the Right has proposed. It is clear that the provision in Denmark could not have been contrary to human rights for 19 years without any response. This is from NOU 1980:28, page 53. It is therefore fully possible to adopt the proposal to lower the penalty framework criterion in Section 172 to six or five years and to be equally fully within the law of our neighbouring country and also within the framework of what was actually accepted in the law from its adoption until 1984. As regards increased access for the police to the search for weapons to prevent violence, I am pleased that this matter is being postponed pending the government's announced proposal. If we get it to treatment in time, the goal is to settle down before summer, and it could be a happy step in the right direction. It is also gratifying that there is a broad consensus on the need for various speedy court solutions, as the Stortinget expressed it in the budget position in December. Several projects are now under way and some are being evaluated with positive results. We know that in Oslo Cityrett there are already reserved legal premises that give the police the opportunity to prioritize certain cases. On the basis of this, I would like to address the Right-wing proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e753	The representative of Krohn Devold has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e759	I claimed in my post that Document No. The 8-proposal was promoted by the representatives of the Right in order to demonstrate the rigour of criminal policy on the basis of a heated media coverage of violence incidents during the last spring. I maintain that impression, even though I believe in Kristin Krohn Devold's sincerity in that she wants to prevent criminal acts. But the weakness lies in the fact that the Right prescription is largely police and more severe punishments. It only becomes difficult when she says that prevention work is also important, when, as a background for a child-crime selection, only emphasis is placed on the restrictions. I therefore maintain the main impression, that this is to compete in a tough debate with the populist solutions of the Progress Party. I again stress that in Oslo a media survey was conducted among representatives of all political parties, where most, except for one representative of the Progress Party, put emphasis on things other than the criminal lavalier. It reinforces my impression that such a short period of time after the criminal record actually goes into criminal proceedings through the courts that do not have the basis of the legislation we operate with today, because the alternatives to which the Right-Pointer is to be used are subject to subsidiary prison sentences. And my question is therefore, does the Right go in order for 14-year-olds to be sentenced to acquittal in prison?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e766	To go straight to the last question first, no matter where we set the limit for the minimum age of 14, 15 or 16, in the extreme sense, as Vidar Bjørnstad says, it means that someone who does not serve as a community service, who does not comply with the decisions of the conditional judgment or who breaks the electronic house arrest, must be in prison. My attitude is that neither 14-, 15-, 16- or 17-year-olds have anything to do primarily in prison. But today's minimum criminal law age of 15 years is going to be equally wrong, because even 15-year-olds have nothing to do in prison, and I know that Vidar Bjørnstad agrees with me. Even with what the Workers' Party is about, you get the same border situation, which none of us want. So to the claim that the Right is only concerned with police and more stringent penalties, that we are not concerned with prevention, and that we made these proposals almost like a panic-carded response. First, in the case of the minimum age, it's in our program, it's in the previous program, and it's been in it for a number of years. Secondly, I would like to refer to the overall package of measures we were involved in this autumn. The most important thing about the police is that we give them an opportunity to react early, because it has a preventative effect. It is not right that funds for the police do not have a preventative effect. We also agreed to grant funds to the courts, which may shorten the waiting time there. It also has a clear prevention effect, and it is also good for young people not to wait so long. Furthermore, the Right proposed to grant funds to Youth against Violence, which is a voluntary organisation. It's the only organization that has good effects on thread splintering. It was the Right who took it up, we got a majority for it, and it has a clear preventative effect. It was also the Right who suggested funds to the Church's Bymition, so that they could run a proper detention of the prisoners who came out of Ila County Prison. It was given a majority, and it has the greatest preventative effect.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e775	The representative Krohn Devold argued with weight that she had a strong commitment to child abuse. I have no intention whatsoever of doubting that she has such an commitment. And I'm actually asking to be believed that it also applies to me that it's of the things I have a strong commitment to. But based on the same commitment, for my part, it becomes a problem to say that the answer is to give access to prison children. Reducing the criminal lavalry from 15 to 14 years is the wrong answer for me. And even more wrong, I think the answer is when the Right also proposes to give greater access to custody of children under the age of 18. That's what one proposal is all about, which is probably a little in conflict with some of what Kristin Krohn Devold said in his previous answer, although I don't in any way doubt that she clearly has no desire for the custody of people under the age of 18, and that is the purpose. But it will, after all, be the result if you're going to open up greater access to do that. And then finally on this matter with the relationship with international conventions: in connection with the human rights conventions, there was a point on the Right to go into order for the Children's Convention to be incorporated into Norwegian law. I am not sure whether it is in accordance with the Children's Convention to go in for more use of prison sentences against children, as these proposals actually involve.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e782	It's right, as the representative Hove says, that the Right, together with the Workers' Party, is fighting to also make the Children's Convention part of Norwegian law. I thought it was very nice if the center parties had participated in this on the committee, which they were not. What's the problem with children and prison is basically, as I was in my reply to the representative of Bjørnstad, that regardless of whether you set minimum criminal law age to 14, 15, 16 or 17, there will be some exceptional cases where prison is the only solution. The consequence of Hoves' objections will be to raise the minimum age to 18 years, because as long as we have a paraplegic for people who are not authoritative, it will be in the utmost consequence that one can have to use prison. I believe that there are cases of violence that are so serious that you can't get away with it. In the evening post on Monday, May 3, there is an article by a teacher that refers to the violence of school students, among other things. a student planned was mistreated on the most severe, beaten with bats, given blow and kick against his head, etc. Everyone knew about it, no one had gossiped – no thunder. And nine of the rivers standing around are terrified to say something. This isn't just a media essay, this is the reality of parts of Oslo school, where I have my children. I belong to those who believe that in some cases the leaders behind this type of violence must be both jailed and imprisoned. But in this case, the police claim that despite this very serious violence and the fact that so many children are terrified, there is no way to use custody. It worries me, and it should also concern the representative Hove.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e793	The representative of Krohn Devold has a personal commitment to the victim's position in the field of criminal policy, and honor her for it. But is the exposure equally strong when it is e.g.. to strengthen child protection? The representative of Krohn Devold mentioned in his speech that the Right's reactions were the lowering of the criminal lavalry, punishment and, if necessary, fines when committing crimes. But I miss another part of this, namely that those who are not in favour of lowering the criminal lavalry also have measures they want to use, and those measures, in my opinion, are more valuable than punishment. Many experiments in Norwegian criminal history have shown that punishment in relation to children does not result in a different behaviour, but simply results more from the behaviour that is undesirable. In the 1999 budget, Krohn Devold said that the Right had granted 1 million. kr to Youth versus Violence. I noticed that the right was not interested in spending 50 million. kr to a youth package against violence. Since Krohn Devold is so very concerned about what's going on in school, she could at least agree to give money to environmental workers in school, who would just take over the problem you have, for example. in schoolyards, and infiltrate the rest of the environment. We need research in this area, and the Right wasn't willing to go into that problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e800	Since I have my place in the Committee on Justice, it is not unnatural that I mention the prevention measures under the jurisdiction of the Committee on Justice. And both Youth Against Violence and the Church's Bymission and other voluntary measures are an important part of this. I will also be the first to say that prevention measures are at least as important as the criminal, enforcement measures. But it is within the jurisdiction that we are responsible for putting some consequences in place. Unlike the area of the Children’s and Family Committee, which has a lot on the prevention side, the justice sector, no one else, takes responsibility for enforcing consequences. If not even we're going to focus on this, well then we've removed the last element of enforcing a consequence. Often this leads to that we who sit as justice politicians are met with accusations that we are only concerned with consequences. Of course we are not. I would also like to highlight municipal responsibility, and I know that the Oslo City Council is examining an action plan, a package of measures, precisely in order to put preventive measures in place in the local community. In the rise of the border Right at its national meeting in relation to different parties also when it comes to criminal policy, it was precisely that prevention measures are as strong in our budgets as the enforcement measures are one of the key elements. So in the area of children and families, I am one of those who believe that funds for cash support, which provides opportunities for families to be more at home, work a little less and have more care for each other, is a very important precautionary measure, where we have been so generous as to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e812	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e815	The rapporteur, Kristin Krohn Devold, has in a very good and thorough way highlighted the issues that have been addressed in the setting. I will therefore, so late in the debate, pay attention to a few brief comments. Document No 8:18 for 1998-99 contains several proposals, and the proposers state in the reasons for the proposals that security from abuse and violence is a prerequisite for freedom and life. It's not hard to join. All parties on the Stortinget have agreed on a number of occasions that security in everyday life is a right of every citizen. With regard to the proposal to lower the criminal lavalry, similar proposals have been examined in the Committee on several occasions. The main objection of the majority, of which the Central Party is part, is that they launched alternatives to the proposal, based on a general reduction of the criminal detainee, presupposes that the use of prison sentences against 14-year-olds is also acceptable. The majority have established that there are parents and the public auxiliaries, with child protection at the head, who are responsible for responding and taking action against children who commit criminal acts. The majority have also emphasised joint efforts and cooperation, including: The homes of children, school, child protection and the police are being withdrawn. For parental responsibility – Indemnification Act § 1-2. The size was decided at the latest during the treatment of Innst. O. No 41 for 1994-95 to raise the objective liability of parents to NOK 5000 for each individual act of indemnity. However, I think there is reason to note the Ministry's assessment that there is no certain basis for assuming that a change in the law that increases the maximum amount of parental responsibility will have the desired impact on the development of crime. I am also pleased that, in the light of the Government’s opinions, the Committee is just asking the Government to contribute to an action plan aimed at combating crime among children and young people and to present it to the Stortinget during 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e830	At the outset, I would like to express my satisfaction at the statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council, which I consider to be a great deal of regret when it comes to a review of questions of principle and practicality in relation to the proposals and subject-matter that we are dealing with here. First I'd like to say a little bit about the criminal lavalier. I think it is important to hold on by the fact that the question of the criminal detainee is a question of what one believes is the right age for making a child criminally responsible. It is not, in my view, a question that can be particularly linked to the issue of effective law enforcement and effective fight against crime. We have to ask the question, when is it right to make a child criminally responsible? It's going to be a value question, because when is a child so old that it's right to do it? And it's made my impression that almost all the older judges I've met have consistently underlined one thing: if there's something they won't miss in their retirement life from the judiciary, it's to face a 15-year-old who's asking about prison. I think we should be aware that we are here on a question that is probably important. And that's why I can make a partial confession to Kristin Krohn Devold, because it follows clearly from this that for my part it would not be relevant to participate in lowering the criminal lavalry. That means that if it were to be about a change, probably the opposite way would be what I could have been interested in. It is not in that I have proposed it, but at least I am giving a signal as to which way it might be appropriate to go. The second is that child protection has been strengthened following the lifting of the criminal detainee from 14 to 15 years of age, and changes have been made to the Child Protection Act which has become a better tool for dealing with the issues related to children who receive the kind of behaviour that criminal acts represent. I'm open to the notion that the system isn't working well enough today, but I'm not in doubt that it's within the framework of the thinking and the system that you have to go on in that case to find solutions, not by lowering the criminal lavalry. In the case of custody imprisonment and the proposal to reduce the penalties provided for in Section 172, halving it from ten to five years would actually mean a dramatic change. And that's because a very large number of crimes that are practically important have a penalty frame between five and ten years. If I don't remember completely wrong, there are quite a number of people with a six-year penalty. If there were single types of offences where, because of a decade's penalty framework in Section 172, prison cannot be carried out in relation to where one believes that there should have been an opening for it, it would have been more natural, in my opinion, to consider whether it means that the penalty framework for those offences should be raised to ten years. It could be a more neat and logical approach angle in my opinion. Otherwise, I would like to highlight what the rapporteur stressed, that in relation to custody prisons, the main point is to reduce the use of custody prisons by different measures, not in the first place, at least to increase access to goods prisons. With regard to the replacement law, there is reason to stress that the responsibility that we are talking about here, where there is a proposal to raise the amount limit from 5,000 to 20,000, is an objective responsibility, that is, without fault to those who have to pay. It's a responsibility for other people's actions, just enough people you have as close to as your own children. It is important to bear in mind that the replacement law also provides for compensation for the situations in which the child can be blamed and the reason why he commits acts of replacement, to the parents; it is access to full compensation when it is necessary to skew the parents in such a qualified way that they are found to be correct.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e861	It was in itself an interesting thought the representative of Hove said – that he could imagine raising the penalties for some types of serious crime. I thank you for this proposal and I promise that we will assess it. Nevertheless, I think you should also bear in mind whether this is necessarily the best way, and that is in the context that we are going in in order to have an opportunity for the use of law enforcement sanctions even in a five-year penalty framework. The difference between people who are exposed to gross crime is as well known that some die of the violence committed, and it provides a penalty of more than ten years for the perpetrator. Then there's someone -- if I'm allowed to say it a little bit pointed -- who's so stubborn that they don't die, and then you don't have such a punishment frame. Is it really the opinion of the representative of the Hoves that it is satisfactory not to be able to deal with the injustice committed against these people, and does he maintain, after having thought a little about, that he would rather be involved in increasing the penalties also for those who are 'only' subjected to gross violence?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e868	What was the main point of my speech in relation to the proposal was that by going in to lower the general penalty framework to five years, there is very much to it, and that there are actually a large number of criminal provisions that come under Section 172 by having a penalty framework of between five and ten years, and not least any criminal offences with a penalty framework of six years, which are actually important provisions. One starting point for my reasoning was that if you think that there are serious criminal acts where custody detention would be right after Section 172, it would perhaps be more logical to consider the issue of an increase in the penalties to ten years. I have not thus said that I will be in favour of it. I have not taken a position on the question as to whether it would be correct in relation to these criminal offences with custody of Section 172, but I am kind of keeping the question open, because I feel that I cannot decide on all the criminal acts we are talking about here, at the same time. An alternative way could be, if it was thought that there were a few types of criminal offences that should be covered by this, to mention them in Section 172, i.e. to individualize which would be the case. It gives me a suspicion that those at the Right's National Meeting who were concerned that the Right's criminals were not sufficiently concerned with legal certainty, perhaps they are right, when you go so far instead of going more individually to work. And I have noticed in the home election campaign in Bergen the characteristics that were given by the opposition at the Right National Meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e878	No one else has asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e881	The debate on measures aimed at children and young people with criminal behaviour has been quite often held in this Chamber, by the end of March at the latest, when we dealt with the Child Protection Act. The topic of the discussion was to lower the criminal detainee, use the Child Protection Act as a form of punishment against children and young people under the criminal detainee, and to amend the Child Protection Act in order to help children and young people who are involved in criminal acts. The majority of the Family Culture and Administrative Committee, all except the Advancement Party and the Right, concluded that there was no need to amend the Child Protection Act in order for children and young people who committed criminal acts to be helped. It is important to stress that the Child Protection Act is to provide assistance to children and does not need to be developed to become a kind of criminal law for children. The majority in our committee were concerned with the measures and knowledge needed to prevent child crime, and they were also concerned that research in these areas had to be nuanced and updated. The family committee was not alone in believing that the Child Protection Act would not develop into a criminal law. The whole of 74 out of 82 hearing bodies were opposed to amending the Children's Protection Act §§4-24 and §4-26. The majority underlined the importance of maintaining the distinction between just penal responses and child protection measures. The starting point of child protection is to be an aid body for children and families, and not a response body for criminal justice. That children commit criminal acts is a social problem and must be resolved from it. I think we all agree that the increase in criminal acts committed in the youth community requires the development of child protection and not the lowering of the criminal lavalier. Rather, it must be accepted that, in the context of the Children’s Protection Act, criminal measures similar to prisons are being implemented. The working party is committed to the launch of targeted crime prevention measures. Children and young people at risk must be stopped before they develop a criminal runway, and it must be reacted quickly. Therefore, there must be close cooperation between child protection, non-governmental organisations, police, schools and parents. And in fact, these measures cost money. I think we have a law, the Children's Protection Act, which is enough as a tool to help children under the criminal law. But I don't think we've ever found out about the clearly targeted measures to prevent children and young people from entering the risk zone to develop a criminal racetrack. We agree that children need someone to set limits on them and on their actions, but the proposals from the Right have until now been aimed at lowering the criminal detainee, investigating a fixed system of follow-up and reaction to children under the criminal detainee. This means that you get a kind of punishment system that is going to be the same for all children across the country, and then you have a criminal system without a criminal code. It would be interesting to hear what kind of criminal system you would suggest to follow up serious crimes committed by children. In the view of the Workers' Party, the Child Protection Act is in place for the best of the child, and it shall not provide a fixed system for resolving the problems. Children are different, children are children, and solutions must always be sought for the benefit of the individual child. That's why we can't have fixed systems. With the development of criminal acts carried out by children, all of us are required to try creative, new solutions, and then we have to have tools for research and development. I think it's easy to call on more police when criminal acts are committed by children, but I think it's just through hard work, nine-time work and targeted relief work in the places where such things evolve, that we can prevent a criminal racetrack.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e900	There is cause for concern that children and young people are involved in criminal activities. The emergence of youth gangs where violence and other crime are a prominent link element is particularly worrying. It is important that society reacts to young people who commit criminal acts and that the response is as rapid and effective as possible. For society and young people alike, it is about slowing down progress towards a permanent criminal career. Juvenile delinquency is not a new phenomenon. However, the development we are now looking at towards more organised and violent crime requires new ways to tackle the problem. The use of criminal justice is only one of several instruments that can and should be used. A comprehensive effort is required with cooperation between, inter alia: the school system, child protection, the family, youth organisations and the justice sector. I agree with the majority of the Committee on Legal Affairs who reject the proposal to lower the criminal lavalry from 15 to 14 years of age. The proposers state that they do not believe that prison sentences should be used against 14-year-olds, but other forms of punishment, such as prison sentences. social service and conditional supervisory judgment. However, when a person is sentenced to community service or conditional judgment, it is necessary to provide for a subsidiary prison sentence such as rice behind the mirror in the event that the social service or conditions of the judgment are not completed. The proposal therefore presupposes acceptance of the use of prison sentences against 14-year-olds. In my opinion, 14-year-olds do not belong in prison. The treatment must take place through coordinated multidisciplinary efforts, including: from the child's home, school, child protection and police. I also mention that in 1987 the criminal lavalry was raised from 14 to 15 years of age, referring to the harmful consequences of detention on children, and that custody and compensation do not act as a criminal prevention against young offenders. In my opinion, these positions are still valid. The Judicial Committee proposes that the Storting should ask the Government to submit an overall plan of action and measures to combat criminal acts among children and young people. The plan shall include reactions as well as preventive measures. I can inform you that the Department has today held a meeting with the Ministry for Children and Family Affairs to discuss such an action plan. Recent initiatives have also been taken to promote Nordic cooperation on problems related to juvenile delinquency. I can also mention that on Thursday there will be a hearing on violence among children and young people under the direction of the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs in cooperation with several other departments. The purpose of the consultation is to improve knowledge of work and efforts to prevent and combat violence and behavioural problems among children and young people and to discuss the need to strengthen and further develop these efforts. One wants to find out what is considered good action against violence and what society can do to prevent violence and provide assistance to the victims. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Justice are also working on a number of other measures, which will lead to too much detail here. Nevertheless, I would like to allow myself to attach some comments to it, among other things. based on my experience with the big city of Oslo. I think that one of the really crucial measures, especially in relation to the situation that many young immigrants face, is that you need to have more adult role models in school. It's really dramatic that there are almost no teachers with immigrant backgrounds in general in school, and especially in high school. Yes, if I were to put it at the head, today there is actually a more systematic and better organized job of recruiting competent immigrant youth to the Police College than to the teachers' colleges. I allow myself to say it so directly, because it's been wondering me for years. In many ways – to sharpen it – the police's efforts here are something to look at, while other agencies should actually be concerned about focusing their attention on how to recruit. I myself have been present at large schools in Groruddalen, Oslo, where people are really exemplary. You have company training -- you have a relationship with producing and managing money -- you have a relationship with the community, and you meet a lot of real people at all. In such a case, I have experienced asking an excellent principal if he had ever said to one of the 35 psts. immigrant students he had: we need some of you back as teachers. He wouldn't have. But it is such statements from adult people that are vital. It is – to be bold – opinions that have at least had an impact on me. Because I have met teachers who could speak directly to me, and not only to me, but also to my fellow students, I have later found that it became the most positive, surprising results out of it. I would like to focus on this, because we often talk about social education measures. But what is needed in a good school is a normal teacher who is present as a good example. And I know from the cases where the police, for example. in Oslo has a contact in excellent cooperation with the school, that it is precisely this adult figure that is missing. I don't see this as something that will immediately produce results, but as it's incredibly important to engage in and lift up, going outside the justice sector, but as I feel the need to underline. I would also like to make some comments on the proposal to lower the limit on the use of so-called law enforcement offences. Paragraph 172 of the Criminal Procedures Act allows for the arrest and custody of a person even if there is no specific ground for imprisonment, provided that he or she is suspected of a crime which could result in a sentence of imprisonment for 10 years or more, and there is a confession or other circumstance which in particular reinforces the suspicion. The purpose of law enforcement is different from that of custody. The aim is not to counteract the danger of avoidance, loss of proof or repetition, but to counteract the feeling of insecurity and lack of trust in the law enforcement of society that could result if those who have committed serious crimes are freed while the case is under investigation and judicial proceedings. The rule has been criticised, but it has been found to be sound, also for the sake of purpose. However, the exemption rule can only be defended as long as its scope is limited to the serious criminal offences. If the 10-year limit were to be lowered to five years, the scope would be considerably extended to include a wide range of crimes that do not pose a threat to society to justify the use of such an invasive measure as is the rule of law enforcement. The proposers mention that law enforcement offences could possibly be used for damage to the body, extortion and ran. However, it will also be able to be used for gross failure, gross theft, gross fraud, gross adultery and injury. In my opinion, it cannot be defended that a person should be held in custody on suspicion of such crimes unless there is a particular ground for imprisonment. It would involve some form of foreclosure and could also be contrary to Norway's obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights. Another issue is that there may be grounds for considering increased access to custody for some crimes, typical crimes of a violent nature, which have a lower penalties than prison for 10 years, and are thus currently outside the area of law enforcement detention. This will be looked at by the Ministry of Justice. I also stress in this context that it is generally in our society, including repeatedly from the Justice Committee, that we are going to pursue violence with special commitment. So this relationship – that there may be some crimes that you should consider in relation to a law enforcement sentence – I would like to say that I will assess more closely, and then possibly come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e932	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e935	I want to take this opportunity to take a line at the Council of State. Maybe we should more often here in Stortinget take a line even when it's something positive to grab hold of another person's posts, and not just when you have something to be strongly critical of. I take it as a very positive signal from the State Council Dørum that he would be able to support an extension of care use in Section 172 of the Criminal Procedures Act to certain matters, for example. serious acts of violence. I would basically just have to confirm from Dørum that I understood him correctly, and that we might be able to wait for a matter from the Government that points to this relationship with gross violence and what opportunities it has to ensure that custody can be used to respond to the growing concern in society for this to be taken too easily.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e942	I can clearly confirm what I said. This is because – as probably more people have noticed – I have a significant commitment to the fight against organised crime, but I also have that against gross violence. And that's how, as several of the representatives have been involved, there's always going to be a victim after that. And it was to highlight an attitude in relation to this that I said what I said. When I said "estimate," it's because I think I should. And if I'm to come back, I have to be very specific about what I'm coming back with. I also think it is important to give such a signal when, hopefully, in these days, we get a signal about something I hope to last, namely that it may seem that the efforts of the Oslo police, and also the police's efforts in other Norwegian cities, at least in the first part of this year, lead to a return to the number of violent cases. Now it's a very weak statistical base we have, but we see such a development, among other things. As a result — I think — of concentrated efforts. It should also, in my view, be strengthened by the fact that I and others who are politically responsible look at all aspects of violence, but also at the reaction to it. That is why I thought about what I said at the end of my article.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e949	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e954	Like Kristin Krohn Devold, I would like to say that I appreciated the Council's inclusive attitude in its contribution. This suggests that timely intervention and advocacy from the teacher have had a good effect in the case of the Council of State, so that's what we'll have to take with us in the further processing. Otherwise, I have asked for the word to correct the setting on page 6, second column, second paragraph. It shall read: ‘The members of the Committee of the Right shall take positive note of the fact that an arrangement has already been put in place’, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e961	The President has taken note of the change the representative has just referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 510]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e971	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 - 4.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e1014	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e1021	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e1079	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e1086	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e1092	During the debate, Mr Simonsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I.Law of 22 May 1902 No 10 The following shall be amended as follows:Article 62, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: [[punishment law]] The Common Penalty of Freedom is set at prison where any of the criminal offences would have resulted in such punishment. If the sum of the various punishments results in longer sentences than prison for 21 years, the sentence of freedom is limited to 21 years in prison. II.This Act shall enter into force immediately.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e1123	Alternatively, the vote shall be taken between the I and the proposal of the Party of Advancement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e1150	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the position of the Committee on II, III and IV shall be to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e1156	During the debate Kristin Krohn Devold, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right, put forward the proposals No. 1 and 2. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Decision to the Act amending the Law of 22 May 1902 No 10 Ordinary Civic Penalty, in the Law of 22 May 1981 No. 25 on the procedure in criminal matters [[punishment law]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the prosecution instructions in such a way that serious crimes committed by young people provide a greater basis for requesting custody.’ Proposal No. 2 will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, then from the Committee's position on I.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04-lower.ana.ud2558e1233	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the position of the Committee on II will be to send the Stortinget.
