ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e22	Before we start yesterday with the meeting, the president will briefly outline the arrangement for it: The debate will have a restriction on participation. It is only the Prime Minister and the parliamentary leaders who can participate. This also applies to the lines. The Prime Minister's statement may last up to 25 minutes, while the speeches by the parliamentary leaders are limited to 5 minutes. In addition, the Prime Minister receives up to 5 minutes for a final comment. The speech, the speeches and the replies to the replies are kept from the ordinary pulpit. Repeats are taken from the pulpit placed in the hall. The participants, other than the Prime Minister, have initially been assigned a certain number of lines for which they decide their own use. But they can't use more than half of these for the same speech. The time limit for replies and replies is up to 1 minute. There will be no opportunity to make proposals during this debate. Since the outline is not covered by the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, the President will ask for the approval of the Storting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e39	Let me first thank the Stortinget for this opportunity to address some of the long-term challenges we are facing. In our media-driven reality, we often get too busy commenting on the single-day events. It is important that the Stortinge can discuss the larger lines of social development. We live in a world of ever-faster changes. New technology is changing society, jobs and our privacy. Globalisation is exploding old borders and offers both new opportunities and new uncertainties. Our task is to meet these challenges so that we can safeguard the fundamental values we want to shape the future society: The values of freedom – which can be weakened if the state becomes too monotonous equality – which can be weakened if the market gains too much power, respect for human dignity – which can be weakened both if the state becomes too omnipotent and if the market becomes too monotonous Norway must choose a third path, with the decentralisation of power and a stronger role for civil society, voluntary engagement and personal responsibility – based on fundamental values. In this presentation, I will raise three quality requirements for the future society: It must be an innovative Norway, it must be a solid Norway, and it must be a safer Norway! Tomorrow's society must pass this quality test! The path to such a society is through an interaction between state, municipalities, business, voluntary sector, family and individual. Individuals shall have clear rights, but also clear obligations. It's with such an attitude our ancestors built up the welfare society we're enjoying today. We have to set the same requirement to ourselves. Let me start with the vision of an innovative Norway. If everyone is to have work in the future, we need an innovative Norway. The way there is through skills-providing education, and through research that provides new technologies and products. And it goes through simplification of public legislation, which can trigger increased freedom of action and more efficient resource management — in short, a simpler society. In 1998, the impact of globalisation was illustrated. The financial crisis in Asia and the collapse of the Russian economy have had consequences for countries in other parts of the world — including Norway. The countries that were particularly pressured against their currency were precisely the ones that were most affected by the fall in oil prices and other commodities that the Asia crisis contributed to. The fourth year's interest rate increase was linked to several factors. Oil prices were halved in a short time! The Norwegian economy had been overheating for several years, and the social partners had just negotiated a costly wage settlement. A tight government budget and high interest rates have contributed to the cooling down of the economy. We've now seen the first signs at a lower interest rate. The government is following the situation closely to adapt the instruments so that we can maintain high employment and low unemployment. For example, the yard support is now being increased. Oil price developments mean that the Government will assess the framework conditions for the operation on the socket. The situation and any new measures will be assessed in the revised national budget. Despite problems, in general, the country's economic situation is very sound: While many other countries face a budget deficit, Norway has a large surplus on the State budget. That was also the case last year, even with low oil prices. While many other countries in Europe and the rest of the world are struggling with large government debt, the Norwegian state has built up significant net financial assets. Many European countries are struggling with high unemployment. The average in EU countries is still around 10 p.m., while Norway has dropped unemployment since the referendum in 1994 from about 5.5 p.m. For approx. 3 pst. For the Government, full employment is an important objective. But it doesn't matter. Although we still have a moderate price increase, it is marked higher than with our trading partners. And last year's salary growth was twice that of our trading partners. Continuing this, we will soon be praising ourselves out of the international markets. Then we know from the past that the unemployment rate is increasing. The conclusion is therefore clear: if we are to maintain full employment in the years to come, we must keep the cost growth down. The authorities cannot do this alone. The social partners also have a responsibility for restoring cost developments in line with the countries with which we compete. Therefore, cooperation in income policy is so important. The government invited to an income policy conference before Christmas, and we follow up by launching two processes: The government has already reduced a sample to provide a basis for spring's income settlement. The phasing-in of a skills reform that contributes to increased value creation – and does not weaken it – is becoming important. The Government will appoint a Commission with a broad composition and a long-term objective; it will contribute to full employment based on high value creation, growth in the competitive sector, an efficient public sector and fair distribution. This is how we will renew income policy cooperation and renew the option of solidarity. The conditions for ownership in business are important. We need private investors who think long-term. In activities that manage large natural resources, public ownership and governance are important. There has been a debate on the possible partial privatisation of Statoil. On these issues, we need to think in the long term, and we need broad political agreement on possible changes. The debate will also affect the management of the State's direct financial involvement. The government will invite the parties to discuss these issues in due course. While oil revenues will decline in the future, the proportion of older people in the population will increase. In order to maintain and further develop the welfare country, Norway is therefore dependent on increased value creation in competitive business. Management of Norway’s natural resources — fisheries, agriculture, oil, hydropower — will also contribute to a viable business life and to a widespread settlement in the future. We will continue to use all of Norway. The agricultural situation last year gave rise to new optimism in the agricultural industry. The potential of the fishing industry to consolidate living coastal communities is high. An improvement in market access is important, which the Government will work for both in the World Trade Organisation and in relation to the EU. However, a significant part of the necessary growth in Norwegian land-based business needs to come in new technology and product areas and in enterprises that are currently small or are not yet established. The conclusion is clear: it needs to be put into an innovative Norway. So how do we get it? Firstly, we need to stimulate growth in small and medium-sized enterprises. The government has presented an action plan for this. It's a first step, which is also taken to improve family business conditions. Founding culture, willingness to take risks, self-employment, access to capital and skills, good framework conditions – this must be promoted in such a way that many people find it attractive to start and operate their own activities. Secondly, we must make an offensive effort to develop and use information and communication technologies. New knowledge and new technologies are among the main drivers of innovation and transformation in the economy. In the future, biotechnology will be central. In both of these areas, the Government presented last year’s new nutrition strategies. As part of the government's district policy reverse operation, we will actively use information technology, which can remove some geographical barriers and thus give the districts a new chance. Thirdly, research and development is a key to the future. It will open the door to new technology and product areas that we will live on in a few decades, but that are currently unknown. Innovation requires knowledge, yes acute competence. Consultant Hartvig Nissen wrote in a circular in the then Ministry of Education in 1852: «The time requires everything with necessity that much is known, and the school must also teach its students much». The same is true today – only more! We need to bet on research. Through the state budget for this year, for the first time in a few years, we were able to turn negative numbers into positives. The Government has also decided that Norway should participate in the 5th EU Framework Programme for Research. And in the spring session, the Government will present its own big message on the situation and conditions of research in the future. The Mjøs Committee shall provide the basis for a review of the higher education challenges. We have to think in the long term. We need to be willing to initiate dynamic change processes, reforms to preserve. We need an innovative Norway! If we are to trigger the capacity for innovation that is needed, we must also remove some obstacles. We simply have to look with new eyes at how the public authorities themselves function. The government has therefore launched the ‘Simplifying Norway’ project. The project has three objectives: Firstly, it should be easier for citizens to make contact with the public. The management shall be modernised. The government will, among other things, further develop measures such as public service offices and the introduction of service declarations for each public establishment. Secondly, the Government will bring about a clean-up and simplification of regulations and regulations, in particular with regard to business. Thirdly, municipalities should be given greater freedom so that they can make greater use of their resources in the provision of services rather than inappropriate bureaucracy and control. I myself, as Prime Minister, want to lead a selection of government members to coordinate these three processes for ‘a simpler Norway’. So a few words about a solid Norway. If we are to avoid the emergence of new class divisions by tearing technology and globalisation, we need a solid Norway. Within Norway, cross-border, future generations and environmental problems. From an international perspective, Norway has been characterised by a level playing field and small differences. We can see signs of this changing, but we don't want a Norway with increasing living conditions differences. This is why the Government will present its own forecast of life-smoothing message later this year. Many of those who get the worst out are people with unemployment or no connection to the labour market, with difficult housing conditions, with social assistance as the only income and people with mental or drug problems. The government wants measures to improve the living conditions of those who have come out worse. Social security is a supporter of the Norwegian welfare community, providing security for disability and old age. From 1 May last year, the minimum pension was raised by NOK 1000 per year. month – NOK 12 000 on an annual basis. The greatest single increase in the minimum pension in history, a boost in the pact with the Government's desire to smooth out living conditions. It's a big challenge to secure the future of popular fear. Funding for popular and future welfare systems must be ensured for future generations. These are so important questions that the Government will gradually invite all the parties on the Stortinget to discussions. We have to look for solutions that can exist even with changing number of large amounts and governments. We want a society of solidarity with the weak – a fellow human Norway. We also have a responsibility for solidarity for future generations. The globe's population is approaching six billion, and will probably pass ten billion towards the middle of the coming century. For most people, material consumption is well below our level, and already we see clear signs that the sum of human activities leads to a break in nature's tolerance limits. In particular, the climate situation is critical. As one of the first in the world, the Government provided a big message on how to meet the Kyoto Protocol commitments. We've also set up a sample to figure out how to set up a national greenhouse gas allowance system. It is important that Norwegian industry adopts forward-looking and environmentally friendly technology. It not only gives environmental benefits, it can also give competitive advantage. The Government will also present a communication on the main lines of energy policy. The development of renewable energy and the reduction of energy consumption will be pursued. We also face local environmental challenges. Air pollution and noise threaten people’s health in many Norwegian cities and agglomerations. The Government has adopted new and stricter performance targets for local air quality. During the year, the Government also aims to develop national performance targets for noise. Environmental requirements must be strengthened! We want a sustainable Norway that takes global responsibility. Norway has its place in Europe. The guidelines for an active European policy were recently discussed here in Stortinget. There was a broad consensus on the way forward. For almost 50 years, through active participation in NATO, Norway has been helping to ensure peace and stability in our part of the world. Also in terms of NATO and security policy, there is a broad consensus in the Stortinget. Norwegian foreign policy shall respect national interests. But we want more than that. Without the will of international solidarity, national pride becomes easily unhealthy sévinism and nationalism. Work on human rights is central to Norwegian foreign policy. During the spring, the Government will present an action plan for our commitment to human rights at home and abroad. In the case of international assistance, Norway is among the foremost. Perhaps this was some of the background to the UN Secretary-General's recent meeting with him in Davos, describing Norway as the ideal member of the UN. Norway also participates as a mediator in different conflicts. The peace processes in the Middle East and Guatemala are well known. Norway’s Minister for Development is now actively engaged in peace work in Sudan, and our Minister for Foreign Affairs has spent much of his time in the hectic peace diplomacy in the Balkans since the New Year. In the future too, Norway must have international justice, peace and reconciliation as a trademark – a solid Norway. Finally, and not least, we need a safer Norway. Faced with rapid changes in society that can lead to increased rootlessness, loneliness and fear, we need to build a safer Norway. Sick and old people must then be confident that they will receive healthcare and care when they need it. In the fight against violence, we must go to the root of the problem. We have to be able to trust each other because we're part of a community of values that commits. We need prevention to create positive environments for children and young people. We need more police to effectively stop lawbreakers. We need a value-conscious and law-abiding society. One of the major challenges in the years ahead is care for the sick and the old. If a patient is ill, a few necessary health care services shall be provided. Is an old, a few care and care if you need it. In Norway, the health service is built up as a public good. No one should be allowed to hold a hat and ask for help or experience that the size of the wallet determines whether a person is allowed to sit in a public hospital. Respect for individuals at all stages of life and equal rights to the necessary healthcare for the whole population are central objectives of the Government’s health policy. During the first year, the government has seized neglected areas of healthcare — services for people with mental health problems, the equipment situation in hospitals and cancer care. Action plans have been adopted in all these areas and billions of money have to be invested in the coming years. The government has also carried out a comprehensive review of the legislation for the health sector and promoted five new laws. We have also addressed the organisational problems of the healthcare system, reinforced the effort-driven funding and presented proposals on the right to free hospital choice. These are measures that will help to improve patients’ health. Work on improving the effectiveness of health services and short waiting lists is beginning to produce results. Hospitals are treating more and more patients. Preliminary figures for the third tertiary in 1998 show a slight decrease in the number of guarantee breaches, and there may be the lowest number of breaches of the three-month guarantee recorded so far. It is also a positive trend in the care of our old, and especially those in need of care. The action plan adopted by the Stortinget involves large investments in the coming years. The starting point is a worthy old age. That's what they deserve older people. The goal of single rooms in nursing homes for all those who need it and want it is firm. Preliminary figures for 1998 and municipal development plans up to 2002 indicate that we are largely on track. However, some municipalities are struggling to implement the four-year bet. The government has therefore facilitated the provision of investment aid to municipalities that fail to cope with the expansion during these years for a further two years. It gives the municipalities greater flexibility. Investment in care for the elderly and health services is becoming a huge boost. But we must bear that in solidarity to create greater security for the sick and the old. Individuals must also have security of life and property. Ensuring ‘personal security’ is a fundamental task for the authorities of a legal State. It's bad to live in fear of being subjected to violence – at home, at work, or when you go out on the streets and in traffic. A separate national road safety action plan will be established, as far as the latter is concerned. Security is an important value. It is safer to live in Norway than in most other countries. The statistics also show that the number of reports of violence has remained at about the same level throughout the 1990s. Although media lookups can give the impression of the pure violent explosion, the actual figures show that, for example: The number of killings in Norway has remained stable for around 40 years in the last decade. Of course, it's 40 too many. The changes that concern us are, in particular, the increase in more serious violence, ransack and extortion. There are signs of a tougher climate — with more weapons in circulation — especially in some youth settings. Therefore, the situation requires action. The target is fixed: violence cannot be accepted. The violence must be reduced! This is why the government presented an action plan on security at the centre as early as last September. Oslo's chief of police has called it a good working instrument. This is why the number of posts in the police in the last ten years has also doubled. 100 new posts are added to the year’s budget. In the revised national budget, we will further strengthen the police budget, so that newly educated students can be offered a job in the police and county council. The Ministry of Justice is cooperating with the police authorities to increase the visibility of the police in the streets. The Oslo Police Action Plan is an expression of this. Let me just mention some main points: more police out in the streets zero tolerance in offensive law enforcement reinforced counter-crime measures increased offensive against knives and firearms increased control activities on and at the scene reinforced efforts against domestic violence faster investigation, prosecution, conviction and punishment increased use of custody, in particular against repeaters Let me mention especially the domestic violence. It's often forgotten, even though it's about 30 pst. of the reports of violence in Oslo belong to this group. I'm sure there's also a lot of assaults that are never reported. 90 pst. of the victims are women. In the longer term, responses to domestic violence are very important. When drunken and violent men commit violence against women and children, the germ is also added to the violence of the young. Prevention is important. I even saw on Tuesday some of the positive youth work that is being done in the east of Oslo, in a multicultural environment. I also discussed integration issues with immigrant youth. Later I want to meet with immigrant parents. If we're going to succeed in reversing the violence, we're going to have to work whole and long-term. We also need to communicate in theory and practice the value foundation on which our society is founded. If we are to stand upright in the fight against violence, we must have a moral spine. It must be a spinal reflex that we take responsibility for each other, and do not injure others. At that time, children need to develop the ability to be empathetic – to experience the situation of others, and also to be fellow human beings. I am convinced that a more valued society will also mean a more law-abiding society. That's how we get a safer Norway. In this presentation, I have highlighted in particular what we can do on the part of public authorities to create a better society. But the state can and will not do everything. We depend on an interaction with the people who form families, schools, businesses, non-governmental organisations and other environments in which we live. In this context, I also see the creation of the Value Commission. It is precisely responsible for stimulating ethical awareness and responsibility mobilization. We are concerned that man has rights, but it also has duties. Both parts are needed if tomorrow's society is to pass the quality test and deserve the designation an innovative Norway, a solidary Norway and a safer Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e257	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e260	I readily agree that the words ‘innovative’, ‘safer’ and ‘solid risk’ must be the objectives of social development. But the Prime Minister did not explain that the coalition of the Government with the Right and the Advance Party is driving social development in the opposite direction. Babysitting has stopped. Many children are taken out of the school leave scheme because self-payments are increasing. Public schools get less money, while private schools get more. The parental care was simply sacrificed by pushing on the plan we agreed on, for two years. And part-time, low-paid women just don't get sick pay anymore. This isn't solidarity, it's not safe, and it's not very innovative either. I would ask the Prime Minister to comment on the fact that he did not affect this development, which many now feel out in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e267	There's no coalition that exists, it's a minority government. We have, of course, in the coming year and a half we have been running, have had alternating support from parties in the Stortinget and in some issues of distribution policy cooperation with the Workers' Party, which traditionally lies close to the centre on such issues. Otherwise, I think this was a little strange black paint of today's society. As far as kindergartens are concerned, we have introduced a cash support reform that provides greater freedom of choice, and when people are given greater freedom of choice, it is possible that the need for kindergartens will not be as great as it would be without. But the Labour Party is against this freedom of choice. With regard to the school holiday scheme, I think one should wait a little before concluding the search there, because every year there has been a decline from the harvest holiday to the spring semester, and from the figures it doesn't seem to have to be any much stronger decline than in previous years. The Elder Plan, as I explained in my post, we follow, but we want to give municipalities that need it, two more years to get investment support. It gives them a better chance of planning and flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e280	In the case of kindergartens, it's a fact that 20 pst. of the municipalities will now have fewer kindergartens, and in the rest of the municipalities virtually stop building. It's historically new. 1,200 children have been withdrawn from the school leave scheme in Oslo. These are the Community schemes that create mission, which set limits, and which also shape children and young people and the security of our society. Odd Roger Enoksen, the expected new leader of the Central Party, yesterday called for the Government to shift its policy towards the Labour Party. This must indicate that one is not entirely satisfied with the progress that has been made in the majority that the Government has so far relied upon with the Right Party and the Advance Party. I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister has not come up with that idea as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e287	Odd Roger Enoksen has not said that the government is going to shift politics into the Labour Party direction. On the contrary, he has said that he thinks the central government is pursuing a good policy, and has found the fact that I myself mentioned in my previous reply, namely that in distribution policy issues, the centre and the Workers' Party have often been united. We would like the Workers' Party to be a little more constructive in the opposition. But Ichland has been a pastor for not having any influence on the budget because he disagrees so much with one reform, the cash support. Then he sits outside, and he goes against what we did when we were in opposition and disagreed with a reform. So this is self-chosen from the Labour Party. But in some other issues of distribution policy, we have cooperation. With regard to kindergartens and childcare, it is possible that there is a certain ideological distinction between those who will have the most of it only in institutions, and us who also believe that the family and the community can and should do more. We will give freedom of choice. Freedom of choice also implies full child-care coverage, and we want that, as previously provided by the Storting. It'll be a pediatric message in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e296	It was this one reform that led to the fact that we had to cut down on the Community schemes that we so badly needed, especially for children and young people. I also want to take up unemployment, because I am afraid that the government will make the same mistake this year as you did with the interest last year: sits and waits and sees. We didn't intervene in time, so we got an unnecessary interest rate increase. Now the government is waiting to see what will happen to unemployment. Three independent institutions say it will increase, the government said in its government budget that it would go down. The government is doing nothing. I have to ask whether this is a responsible policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e303	The last one is positive error. The government is doing something. Firstly, it is to say to those who had the most pessimistic unemployment forecasts before Christmas, that the unemployment rate is now 7 000 to 8 000 in January and February 1999 below the unemployment rate at the corresponding time last year. In the last few weeks and months, the unemployment rate has remained roughly stable, so it's very low. We have full employment, we actually have higher employment than the solidarity option that the Employment Commission offered. We want to keep the time off down there, and when we see signs of alarming developments in some industries, we intervene. That is why we have already proposed an increase in yard aid. We said that in the case of the oil-related industry, there are also danger signals out and going, and I announced that we will come back to it. So it's completely wrong that we don't do anything about the vacancy and the signs that it might increase. Then I must say that I am still surprised that Igland blames the cash support for everything that he disagrees with in this society. Of course it's not like that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e312	I think it is remarkable that the Prime Minister now highlights January and February. No one has said that unemployment will increase now, but three independent institutions – the Bank of Norway, the Central Statistical Office and the Directorate of Labour – have come to the same conclusion that unemployment will increase beyond the year. So the prime minister is comforting himself with a few weeks now. But you're already out too late. One year ago, I raised the question of whether or not to increase the yard support. Then you should have done so, as many shipyards could have secured contracts. Now it could be too late. I'm afraid that history repeats itself, that the government plans for the best and gets the worst out of it. It happened last year, you got the entire interest rate over it. Now you sit and wait for unemployment to increase – we hope it doesn't – but it's a chance to plan for the best this year as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e320	The government is not planning for the best. We are following developments closely, we have contingency plans – I have explained this before – and we have also already come up with measures in an industry that can be hit gradually. Now I think one should be aware that there are far bigger structural problems out there going in the yard industry than a difference of 2 pst. in the yard stand will be able to pay for it. In Korea, they're now building ships at about just what the price of steel is, and it's not that easy to compete with. But at least we have to have a level playing field. They were in the debate before Christmas that said that the unemployment could start to rise already in the new year. We're not comforting ourselves with the last few weeks, we're following developments evenly, and we're coming back – if not before, then in the revised national budget, but if necessary before. I think we have to hold on to the fact that the most important thing we can do now to stimulate the growth of the economy and prevent increasing unemployment is to bring interest down. Now we see a certain tendency towards it, and now we can hold on to a tight fiscal policy and get a income statement to the spring that is moderate, we can lay the groundwork for further interest reductions. It's the most important thing in the fight against unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e329	The next replicator is Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e332	Let me first give a compliment to the Prime Minister for a very good statement that contained many objectives that I am convinced that all of us here in the Grand Duchy fully agree with. So it is good to be able to stand together in many important areas. I am also pleased that the Prime Minister is now finally beginning to take the development of violence and crime seriously. I am very pleased that some of the things we in the Progress Party have said over 15-20 years are now being repeated by the Prime Minister, as objectives also for his government. However, we are a little sceptical about the power of action, and that is a question I want to ask: does the Prime Minister agree that there is a need for long-term prison sentences for repeaters who commit a lot of crime, 15-20 burglaries, so that they are prevented from crime because they are simply in and out of prison?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e341	Yes, the so-called quantum discount for repeat offenders, I agree that there is reason to look at it. Now it's in any legal community that for those who really are repeaters, and who get punishments that together may sometimes exceed what a person normally lives, you have some abbreviations, but I agree that there might be reason to look at this question. I think it's a pretty caricature when Hagen says the government has begun to take the problem of violence seriously. As I explained, we put it for approx. six months ago, an action plan for the fight against crime of violence. It has been characterised by Oslo's chief police officer, who may have the biggest problems to deal with here, as a very good instrument of work, and now we are following up with new measures. I hope that the Progress Party will also become a little more concerned with prevention and not just the police's efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e350	I congratulated Prime Minister Bondevik for now taking this seriously, for many of the proposals he made, he has voted down over the last 15 years when the Progress Party has promoted them. That's what's joyous. So the Prime Minister said to look at this quantum discount paragraph. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is already proposing this. I hope the Prime Minister whispers a few words in his ear to his party traps, so that they can support our proposal on this. The Prime Minister also spoke about man's duties and personal responsibilities. Will the Prime Minister follow this up in the integration policy, with a possible amendment to the law extending parental responsibility for all Norwegian citizens and all those who have permanent residence in Norway, so that it becomes a parental responsibility to ensure that the children can Norwegian when they are produced to begin school and that parental and child law must be regarded as a care failure if parents do not ensure that the children can Norwegian when they start school?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e359	I think that, for example, Lawmaking such a good objective as to ensure that the children should master Norwegian when they start school will lead the wrong way from farms, and in particular whether parents should be imposed, because we know that among both Norwegian children and immigrant children, the family situation is often so that they do not live with their parents, at least not with both. Some may have problematic backgrounds in this way, although the actual family institution is often stronger in many immigrant environments than it is in traditional Norwegian, which is an interesting phenomenon. In the case of Norwegian training at all, measures for enhanced Norwegian training among immigrants in Norway have now been introduced on the basis of a so-called level-based principle. This, we believe, is going to produce results both among immigrant children and among those immigrant adults who are not adequately mastered in Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e366	I understand that with regard to what the Prime Minister has been talking about in terms of obligations, no concrete action should be taken that could lead to a change in practice. After all, there are people who have lived in this country for decades and who have not taken care to teach Norwegian children and have not done so themselves, and there is a need for action here. I have to remind you that Child Protection is quite strong against ordinary Norwegian families and is quick to say that there is a care deficit in areas of far less importance than not learning the language to children. So the Prime Minister has now clearly realized that there are problems in the wake of the clever immigration policy he has been in charge of the Storting for all the 20 years that we have behind us. Now he starts to realize that there are problems. Does the Prime Minister then agree that one of the best preventive measures must at least be to try to limit the violent increase in asylum seekers' immigration that is now taking place, and will the Prime Minister alert us to sanctions so that we do not have further problems in the next 20, 30, 40 years of the nature that he has now admitted we have?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e373	Firstly, I strongly disagree with the fact that we have conducted a clever immigration policy. In fact, in principle, we have a halt to immigration in Norway. Most of the immigrants we get from Western countries. In the case of immigrants with a different skin color, cultural and ethnic background, we have relatively tight legislation compared to other countries in order to stay either by asylum or as a refugee. We have a different policy than the Progress Party here. We acknowledge that openly, and I believe that part of the party's agitation, cf. The debate that has been triggered by some in the Oslo Progress Party recently, in which one often characterises immigrants in general in an unfortunate way, in itself, is a problem. I was talking to immigrant youth in Oslo about this a couple of days ago, and some of what they said was that what often created the threaduality and the extermination mechanism was a general characteristic of the immigrants. Most of them are law-abiding. They can add something positive to society, and then we have to improve integration so that it applies to everyone. So I promise no tightening up of refugee and asylum policy. We've embellished it on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e382	The next replicator is Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e385	At our last national meeting, we presented a policy to make Norway robust to meet a world of rapid change, not only meet it, but also seize the opportunities available. That policy was called 'a creative Norway'. The Prime Minister has now presented a reprinted, debilitated and concerned edition, which he has called an ‘innovative Norway’. There were many objectives, many investigations, many commissions, many samples – I think I spoke at least 12 of the battle in the Prime Minister’s speech – but there was very little action. One of the areas that now call for action is the energy field, where there are major changes in Europe, and where we now really have the opportunity to become Europe's generator and take advantage of the great opportunities we have as an energy nation. In this way it is more than surprising that the Prime Minister has not been able to address the question of the partial privatisation of Statoil, and the question is, When is the time to take that position?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e392	I realized that it started with a very visionary programme from the Right about a creative Norway – and then it ended with the partial privatization of Statoil. The fact that I should have produced a worried, pale version of this, I do not understand. In fact, I am quite optimistic about the future. I think Jan Petersen would rather rejoice that we used a term similar to what he used in his brochures, because we have nothing against capturing ideas from others – when they are good. And the fact that we were going to be so very little concrete in these areas, I haven't realized anything either, because I think I actually went into quite specific areas, even when it was about energy policy. I do not think what the Right has supplied has been particularly specific. In the case of Statoil, it touches on so important parts of the management of Norwegian petroleum resources that we do not take it and decide in a few weeks, even though the Right has now raised a debate on it. We're going to deal with this in a proper way, and I'll have a broad deal about that in Stortinget, if possible, because this shouldn't change with changing governments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e402	My question was, in fact, when is the time, as it says in the statement? That was not the Prime Minister's ability to say anything about it. I also have to say that this is the outcome of an important problem that the Prime Minister is now completely missing, namely the major changes we are seeing in the energy market in Europe, and it is striking that the Government has not provided any policy to deal with these issues. But then to my next question, which maybe shows the difference in the angles of incidence in the case of creative Norway. The core of the Right Program is a real commitment to education. That element is virtually gone in the Prime Minister's vision for some reason. Yes, he actually has no more than a quote from 1852 to refer to! My question is: is the Prime Minister now satisfied with the situation in Norwegian school? And if not, what will he do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e411	I can see that Jan Petersen – as a conservative – noticed a hundred years old quote as the only thing he claims I had about education in my post. But it's completely wrong! In fact, there was quite a lot in my article on education and research as an important prerequisite for an innovative Norway, so I think that in all kindness I have to ask Petersen to read the statement again. He got it an hour in advance, so he should have had occasion for it. So in terms of energy policy and Europe: Norway is actually active. I myself was in Brussels and Bonn, and Norway was wanted to enter into active energy policy cooperation with the EU. We're adding up to that. But the answer to that is not a partial privatization of Statoil, where Petersen ends up. The answer to that is to enter into a cooperation in the Baltic Sea region about perhaps developing an energy network there, where both Norwegian and Russian gas can record. The answer is to enter into closer cooperation with Germany, which needs to get rid of some of the reductions in their energy production and which are going away from nuclear power. We're actually in the process of doing this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e418	I would like to remind you that we are now seeing liberalisation both of the gas market and of the power market in Western Europe. It is a challenge that the Government has not dealt with — nor in this. And I don't think the de minimis nature of the Statoil problem that the Prime Minister is trying to deal with is at the height of the challenge we're facing. The Prime Minister also went very easily over the question of education, because there is actually not much about education. I would like to repeat my question: Is the Prime Minister satisfied with the Norwegian school? And if he's not, what does he intend to do? There are a lot of words in this paper, but there are not many concrete proposals for changing Norwegian policies. Now the Prime Minister must answer the question!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e425	I'm not happy with everything in Norwegian school. Then we could have kind of killed school policy more or less. We're driving it to improve Norwegian school. For example, I would like to say: to develop what we can call the ‘entrepreneurial spirit’, down to primary school age. I want clear quality standards for the school. I want a higher education, where we are now reviewing the experience we have gained in the network model. School's good, but it can get better. So in terms of Europe's energy policy: it is right that liberalisation should take place. We have also taken the consequences of this in Norway. We now have free power exchanges in the Nordic region. We have to look with new eyes at part of our energy policy because of this, and we will draw up the lines in the energy message that I announced in the presentation. Statoil I'm not defacing, on the contrary. It is so important and serious that we really need time to go through it and preferably get a broad political majority behind what we do. It's not trivializing, it's taking it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e434	The next replicator is Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e437	I want to ask the Prime Minister how it is possible to talk about the long-term challenges for Norway and devote so little space to children and young people. Jan Petersen has a very important point: a quotation from Hartvig Nissen – an important man in the history book – but he died 125 years ago! That's what Bondevik is concentrating on. Everything else with regard to children and youth, he skips elegantly. Some of what will be the history of the Bondevik government will probably be that there was a period when there were very many areas that are important for children and young people. Now the reports are coming around from Kommune-Norway. Who pays the highest price? It's children and young people. School's hanging out!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e444	It is with respect to report a grossly misleading presentation of my statement when one claims that I am only four children and young people a hundred years old quote. That's not right at all! I was concerned with children and young people in several contexts — in relation to the importance of the family, in relation to non-governmental organisations and civil society. We can't isolate children and young people just for what's going on in school. I'm also glad that it's not just Kristin Halvorsen who's going to write the story of the government of Bondevik. I believe it will become something more objective in this area than what the honourable Member has said today and elsewhere. I am very concerned about children and young people. I am concerned that they will have proper growing conditions. I'm concerned that we're going to be able to communicate not only knowledge, but also values that make them manage in an increasingly tougher society. I am concerned that we must also make some demands for children and young people. And I myself have entered into an active dialogue with immigrant youth here in Oslo. I actually referred to it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e453	I think it is alarming that the Prime Minister is not more concerned with the reports that are now coming up about the situation for children and young people around the whole country. I saw the head of administration in Old Oslo City on Dagsrevyen today with expectations of what the Prime Minister's coming to. He, and very many others, must be very disappointed now, because what's happening around the municipality of Norway, is cut off in the school sector, and it's more expensive school leisure because you've made a deal with the Advance Party and the Right. There is also less money for the protection of children, and there is less money for many prevention measures for children and young people. In this area, we are not getting any promises about a contingency plan; in this area, it is as if children and young people are not being heard. Will the Government come back with a plan for strengthening the situation of children and young people in Norway, in the revised national budget, in the same way that Bondevik has promised in so many other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e460	Clearly, measures for children and young people have to do with money, but they are not just about money. There I am afraid of SV's policy, because it often ends up in a money career, and the policy towards different groups – like in this case children and young people – is measured unilaterally towards it. The picture is not as full black as Kristin Halvorsen gives the impression. She's not the only one who travels around the municipality of Norway, although sometimes it sounds like this. The image is fairly nuanced. Some municipalities are struggling and have difficulties. We are fully aware of that. Other municipalities are better off. One of the problems with the systems we have with the local economy is that we haven't yet managed to meet in such a way that there are more uniform conditions. We're working on that, and we're going to get back to that. I don't think one should measure our busyness of children and young people's situation in how many lines we used on that question in a statement. I can assure you that this is a central issue for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e469	Then we go back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e472	In the global economy we live in, it is more important than ever that the Government ensures stability and long-term in the economy that national communities are strong, especially for children and young people that our position is Europe – this is where our anchoring must be in a turbulent world It is therefore regrettable that the welfare society will take a step back in the year we are now in. The majority of the population sacrificed the care of the elderly, on which there was an agreement to bet. 2 100 older people don't get the place they were promised. Kindergarten development has practically stopped. 20 pst. of the municipalities will decrease the number of kindergartens. The school leisure system has had a large cut, and the parental payment is increasing, and of course the children of the most disadvantaged are first taken out. Public schools get less advice, and private people get more money. Self-esteem is significantly increased in the health sector. Low-paid and part-time workers are simply deprived of entitlement to sick pay. They are the ones who often do the heavy jobs in hospitals and hospitals. Direction is now wrong. We have to build up the national communities in a time of such great change around us. Kindergartens, schools, school leisure arrangements, leisure clubs and voluntary organisations are, together with families, the foundation of education, demarcation and charity. It's also where everyone can get to know each other, which is becoming more important and important as a driving force in social development. Poorer public schools will create increasing differences. We have a ten-year commitment to education. We should have 10 more years of training. Now we have to increase the quality of all parts of school. The Workers' Party therefore requires the Government to submit a plan to ensure a quality improvement every year for 10 years in respect of: school books continuing training of teachers computers in school indoor climate school buildings The government also needs to provide a state report every year to measure the results of the efforts made. This increased effort for school and education should be made by relocating funds from cash transfers to private and over to the education sector. This is about the core of our welfare society. Because if the public school is not good enough, the weakest will first suffer, and people with money will make their own offers. It's imperative to keep a school where we're all together. I am afraid that the government is making the same mistake with unemployment as it did with interest. Until August 1998, the Government refused to recognize reality. The large interest rate increase would have been quite unnecessary if the government had reacted earlier and not taken the chance that the oil price would stay high. The government has the same passive attitude to unemployment now. The three independent institutions we have that are forecasting unemployment, say it will go up over the year. However, in the government budget of the year, the government has proposed that it should go down, both in terms of appropriations for unemployment benefits and for labour market measures. Now you cling to the number of weeks for employment – right now! But no one has said that the time off will fall in January/February, that is beyond the year it will come. We need to demand a different and more active attitude. This century has had two important development lines. One is that ever-new groups have their freedom – the workers and the women. Now new groups – gay and others – get their rights. Community instruments have been strengthened. This long line I now feel broken in a cooperation between the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party. That's what we're actually seeing right now. The cliffs aren't giants, but they're there, and they're going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e540	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e543	I had expected that the Labour Party leader might have presented a little bit of the Labour Party's policy, of the Labour Party's response to the challenges facing Norway. Instead, we get a new black paint, a new downfall. If it were to be as bad as Thorbjørn Jagland now says, it is an accusation against the former workers' party governments, including the last one he himself led, for many of the problems he raised have been there for very many years – like the indoor climate in school. So I'm going to have to challenge Thorbjørn Jagland: Is it so that he now builds the whole Labour Party policy on a unilateral black paint of the situation in Norway, owes to everyone else and has stopped providing concrete solutions to the problems he himself outlines?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e548	A year ago, I warned against interest rising. Then Carl I. Hagen said here in the main hall that you shouldn't worry about something that can happen in 15 years, so it went five months before it happened. I don't black paint, but I point to challenges and what we should do, among other things. in the case of school. There are problems with indoor climates, because few computers and teachers need further training. The whole quality of school should be increased. But we have expanded places over a decade — six-year-old school start, ten-year-olds, three-year-olds after that, and nearly 60,000 more colleges at universities and colleges. This formidable effort must now be followed up by a quality increase throughout the school system. We haven't been able to do both at the same time, for example. Because we used the school to fight unemployment by getting more places. So now we have to take new steps with new ten years to bet in school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e555	Let me first say that Thorbjørn Jagland is not very correct in quoting what should have been said here in the past. I reject the particular claim he made. I would like to remind Thorbjørn Jagland that in the autumn of 1997, the Workers' Party voted against a considerable effort from our side, an extra allocation of unexpected extra funds that the country had then. We proposed 500 million. NOK for the purchase of computers in Norwegian schools. I went in to buy shares in Chase Manhattan Bank and elsewhere. If you're going to bet on school, you have to do it! I want to ask Jagland, because it seems like he would like to take over: is it now that the Workers' Party accepts that the cash support is here to stay, and that it is not an obstacle to the Workers' Party's interest in receiving an extended hand from the future leader of the Center Party? The arrangement that has so far been the obstacle, is it not an obstacle now? Will the Workers' Party once again come to the political stage, after Thorbjørn Jagland has effectively put the Workers' Party outside any influence on budgetary policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e564	I am aware that Carl I. Hagen in the spring of 1997 and in the election campaign operated with ‘unexpected extras’ as a result of high oil prices. But that's what you shouldn't have done. One should not have been based on so high oil prices – because in fact, the bulk of the population followed Carl I. Hagen's philosophy to a large extent. As regards the cash support, I note that it should be evaluated. Government parties have agreed on this. Then we will see what this results in, both in terms of the impact this cash support has had on family policy, and in terms of the impact it has had on kindergartens, school leisure schemes, etc. So we'll see what we do next.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e571	Let me call for a concrete view from the Labour Party's parliamentary leader, namely on a LO proposal, that the people's rights should gradually be given a people's security fund linked to the future payments of the people's rights, as a security. There is a proposal from the Progress Party to introduce this by means of a constitutional change in the Stortinget now, as a follow-up to what LO has said, in order to be sure that there is a fund whose return is to cover future obligations. This is a very good idea. The Landsorganisation has come along. Will the Workers' Group also follow up on this, so that what is now called the Oil Fund is earmarked for the future payments of the people's rights and we get the security that LO here demands for the long-term future commitment to the country's population? Is the Labour Party leader here in line with the LO and the Advance Party, or does he continue as before and will not have such an earmarked security fund?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e579	Now there's been a wide-ranging investigation on this from the Moland Committee, and then we're all given the opportunity to decide on it. But I want to say that that idea can't be rejected without delay, especially given that at least Carl I doesn't get the opportunity to take off the oil fund for all sorts of other things all the time, as he's done for many years now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e584	The next replicator is Einar Steensnæs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e587	I agree with the criticism expressed by the representative Carl I. Hagen regarding the black paint of the situation in the Norwegian economy. On 15 January, the International Monetary Fund presented a report in stark contrast to the description given by the representative Jagland just now by the Government's economic policy. On the contrary, the Government receives recognition both for the necessary constraints in the 1999 government budget and for the strong economy generally seen by Norway. On the other hand, the tightness of the 1997 government budget, for which Igland was the prime minister, is criticised, and so is the 1998 budget for which the Bondevik government was responsible. In addition, the Directorate of Labour, as the Prime Minister also said, has had to regulate and adjust its forecasts and forecasts of unemployment. That means there's something better going on for employment than you could fear. I would like to ask if Igland is now willing to adjust its black-painting of the Norwegian economy, taking into account the description of the International Monetary Fund and that, after all, Norwegian economy and employment are better than that expressed last year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e592	With regard to the 1997 State budget, the Labour Party had its large rent to hold back in relation to the bulk of the population. Steensnæs is well aware of the demands of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and others regarding expenditure applications. We were affected when we said that the warning lights were lit. I have a whole pile here with quotes from many who said they didn't believe us. You should have believed in us. With regard to the International Monetary Fund's report, it clearly says that oil prices alone did not lead to the interest rate increase. The constraints in the economy of the state contributed to greater stability — so that what we demanded, that is, a narrowing of the economy, came, but it was too late. The government shouldn't have put up the state budget for 1998, as it did, by letting it go with NOK 5 billion. And when you saw that it was wrong, you should have reacted earlier. That is what the International Monetary Fund report says.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e599	I assume that, as Prime Minister, I am not now relinquishing the full responsibility of his government's budget and negotiating here in Stortinget, for 1997. I would like to come back to Jagland's repeated demand that the centre parties choose sides. In fact, in the Norwegian social science data service, it is established that the centre parties are now cooperating more with the Workers' Party than with the Right and the Advance Party – that is the case now. Today, in the newspaper today, Jagland speaks out in a way that indicates that he is very positive about working with the center parties. To the National Assembly of the Workers' Party, he said that the Right and Workers' Party see the challenge in the same way, and that they can form a majority for important issues in the Stortinget. My question to Jagland is: What does the Workers' Party want with its cooperation signals, and which side does the Workers' Party choose?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e609	Just in that situation, it was actually so you couldn't get a majority for anything, as the government had decided. Then someone had to try to form a majority. We were ready for that. We have always hoped that the Government would take its course towards the Workers' Party. And that's what Odd Roger Enoksen says in the Newspaper: "Took this as an outstretched hand to the Workers' Party." He's talking about shifting politics towards the Workers' Party, while the Government has until now believed that the Workers' Party should support the policy we've always opposed. If you can change it, it will be very positive for the political landscape, and also for Norway, because then you get it twisted in the opposite direction to what is now the case, especially in the area of welfare policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e614	As you know, the cash support was in fact a crucial obstacle to the Centre Parties agreeing with the Workers' Party on a budget arrangement. Now the cash support is in place, and I would like to follow up the question asked by Carl I. Hagen to the representative Jagland: do these positive signals mean that at least there is no longer the same decisive obstacle, and that the Workers' Party can imagine future budgetary cooperation with the central parties based on the fact that the cash support is there as a clear premise?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e619	I think the government parties do well to see that it's what the cash support exceeds, that's the problem. The problem is that kindergarten development is stopping; it is that children have to be taken out of the school leisure system because they have to cut down in order to make room for this cash support; it is that the school is weakened; it is that our Community schemes are weakened. If you could have done both, the situation would have been different. That's what the treatment of this year's government budget showed you couldn't do! I think we're quickly dealing with the same priority problems. But now we have to look at the evaluation that the government parties have said will be coming. Then we'll look at the effects of the cash support, including the economic aspects of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e624	The next replicator is Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e627	In his national meeting speech, Thorbjørn Jagland drew up a lot of interesting perspectives when it came to modern Norway. But looking at the political practices of the Workers' Party, it is not quite so impressive. If you look at how they relate to e.g. the rigid Working Environment Act and the overtime provisions, private employment services, Brustad-bua, the Small Boat Register, the Working Environment Act in relation to home offices, cash support, outsourcing of public services, private hospitals and questions concerning Statoil and Telenor, is the question of the extent to which the Workers' Party now relates to modern society. Why does the Workers' Party not want to let go and give a... Excuse me, President! Can I step aside for a moment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e634	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e637	Thanks – just keep going, and I'll come back. The representative Jan Petersen then left the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e644	The President thinks we should take a new representative in the meantime – Johan J. Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e647	Ichland referred to the Norwegian economy – with what he himself called pointing to challenges, there was absolutely no black paint. I wonder what it sounds like when Thorbjørn Jagland runs black paint, if this was actually just an indication of the challenges. This debate should primarily be a debate on how to shape the long lines of Norwegian policy. We heard very little about that in the posts of Jagland. In one area, however, he was quite specific, namely when it came to demands for school and school. He demanded a condition report, which some others have mentioned as opening doors. He said this would be financed by reducing cash transfers. Now we have got the impression that the Workers' Party is not so sure that it will attack the cash support, and then there must be other parts of the cash transfers Thorbjørn Jagland thinks about. Can he give an answer?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e654	The long lines are often shaped by the specific decisions as well – one cannot have a long line and then make the exact opposite of the specific decisions. That's what I think the government is doing. It is not a matter of intervention, to use a word that Jacobsen should know. As far as school is concerned, it's true that we want ten years of new investment in school. We can do that in the same way that we did after the Employment Committee's suspension in 1992. Then we agreed to bring down the transfers by NOK 5 billion and transfer it to services and education in the public sector. That's what we got. That is why we received the formidable increase in educational provision and in the provision of services in the municipalities. I think we should have as a common goal to try it one more time, and I think that should also be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e661	What I asked about was actually related to which transfers, and I did not get an answer to that. But let's change the theme. Igland said that Norwegian policy had to be anchored in Europe. We know that he very much wants, and so much so that one of the first countries to say after the EU vote was that now it is more important than ever to follow the Maastricht principles. Last year we had an interesting debate on the connection of the Norwegian krona to the euro. There were then quite high temperature and strong words, suggestions in Stortinget, decisions in Stortinget. But after the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have been in Brussels and Bonn, we have heard very little about this euro requirement. Does this mean that Thorbjørn Jagland is now satisfied that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have clarified that the models for linking the Norwegian krone to the euro mean that we must break the Norwegian monetary policy? Is that what Thorbjørn Jagland finally recognized?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e674	At least I am pleased that the Government now seems to be speaking with the Labour Party's voice in European policy, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs has explained. We are pleased that there has been a dialogue on monetary policy. And then we'll see what it can lead to. We don't want to create unnecessary conflicts around this at the moment. The best thing would be if we could run this case so that as many parties as possible in this room agree on it, that we could also join the Center Party. It would be very pleasant.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e679	Next replicator – Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e682	I wonder if I hear correctly, or if I hear wrong, because it sounds to the Labour Party leader, Thorbjørn Jagland, as if – at least until now – you are willing to ignore the cash support because it is to be evaluated, and we all know that we are not getting that evaluation by next year's budget. In SV we are thundering against this cash support. But we think it is right that it should not prevent a reasonable coalition between the Centre and the Workers' Party/SV, which can prevent the Right Party and the Advance Party from having such an influence on politics. It's going to be one of the big challenges ahead. I think we need an evaluation of the cash support reform to change, among other things. The central party's attitude to something they were initially opposed to. An evaluation is going to show that we spend $2.30 billion per. in Norway, to subsidise day-olds or to reward those who choose their day-old mother instead of kindergarten, and to make it more difficult for those who have the most difficulty, namely those who do not have it very well at home. Have I heard correctly?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e687	Have I heard correctly? Cash support has to be evaluated. I'm assuming that starts right away, and that we can see some results of that already this year. There will probably be various research reports and studies on it, there will be reports from the municipalities, and then we will see what it leads to. I think it's a little important now to try to have a political debate that's not just about cash support, but to do as Kristin Halvorsen did, to point out that it's overstepped very much for children and youth. And then we'll see what happens when we get the evaluation on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e694	I think I have to use my last line on this. We cannot expect a full evaluation of the cash support within the autumn. We can't expect most people to see what this money really does. We can't expect to get an opinion that agrees with us that child protection, the school – all these other things – needs the money more. In the meantime, can we try to challenge the center of one of the most important things — which I am very pleased that Jagland took up today — for example. school? We would like to welcome you, because we have fought for this without the Workers' Party being particularly willing to spend a few kroner on it. These are the real challenges for the future. Should we start in the harvest, or should we wait until the year 2001?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e701	I think that opinion already agrees with us that this use of money has been wrong, as it shows a lot of research. I think it's possible to get the evaluation results quite quickly, and I don't think it's right in this debate to suggest any result from either one or the other. The best thing would be if you could get results, and that the government does what Odd Roger Enoxsen signaled: moving politics towards the Workers' Party and SV. And I understand that we have a lot of the same priorities, so that side is at least pretty clear, what is needed in Norwegian society now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e706	Next replicator – Gunnar Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e709	Labour Party leader Thorbjørn Jagland would like to appear as a visionary politician who can pass the country on. And then I have to ask: where is it of the future, the exciting visions that Jagland should come with instead of adding up to a rematch on the budget, as he did today? In the last year, the prophecies of doom have dominated. And let me quickly summarize some of the Jagland's clarity. Houses and homes are threatened, there are unexploded bombs under the welfare state, the Prime Minister is lulling into his own world, Norway is in operation, the government is driving Norway into the ditch – everything according to Thorbjørn Jagland. It reminds me when we played Monopol and drew the card where it says: your house and hotels are burning, moving back to the start. But we're not going back to the start, we're going forward. Can we expect the Labour Party to contribute constructively? Or are the repeated doomsday prophecies that are the party's contribution at the entrance of a new century?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e716	I'm a little surprised that the Left's parliamentary leader is now taking it lightly that people have high interest rates. In fact, there are many people in our country who have problems. In fact, many people fear that the job may be threatened, and many feel that it is already threatened. I'm a little surprised that Kvassheim says this, the one who comes from the district he does. It must be allowed to point to the dangers we also see in terms of job security. People's houses and homes are, after all, the most important thing in a society. I just don't want the government to do the same bomb again as it did last year. I dare ask, when one hassles like this: why did the government suddenly find it necessary to tighten with 9 billion kroner, which it denied that one should do before the interest rate rate was above us?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e723	I understand it's my privilege to ask questions from this place. Today’s Businesses have been concerned with the same as Jagland – interest rate developments. And they say that it's possible that Igland has had part of the credit for the interest now having fallen, because for a few weeks there has been the absence of the black paint that was so dominant for long periods last year that it created deep depressions in people who believed in what they heard. Can we expect that Jagland will now contribute to more realism in the economic debate and with more willingness to cooperate with the Government in finding solutions that can reduce interest rates? And isn't it so that one of the groups that is now faced with significantly higher interest rates, the students, gets it as a result of a decision the Workers' Party has participated in, and that says no to the politicians to control the interest level, it's going to be floating?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e732	I think Kvassheim has a shape that I don't know if I should follow up. I don't think it has any purpose. I think it's relatively unprofessional. The fact is, the government made a mistake in economic policy in a thorough and irresponsible way. The working party had to hit the table, it was changed gradually, but they arrived too late. We now have an interest rate of 4.5 pst. on the European. Let's hope it goes down. I think it does, among other things. As a result, we got a different state budget than what you seemed to add up to. So I don't think there's any basis for standing here and hoaxing as Kvassheim does – I have to say, President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e740	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e743	I think in many such debates there are some who react to the fact that we magnificence representatives may just argue and rake down on each other, so I want to repeat my compliment to the Prime Minister for a good speech and say that many of the visions, objectives and points of view are gathering the Storting. So there's more that gathers than that separates. I'm glad he's talking about an innovative Norway. Clearly, one of our challenges, which we have to take seriously, is that it can be a lastingly low oil price. We have a good economy in the state for many years anyway, and we can have the necessary time to adapt. But the challenge and impact of this is important for this industry and business that we meet. An innovative Norway must mean that we do not slaughter Norwegian businesses, entrepreneurs and businesses, with too high taxes and taxes. There is still a tendency among many just to turn the expenditure of the excessive, large and irrational public sector into the creative business world. We will therefore continue to work to limit taxes and taxes, and we in the Progress Party still believe that most people are more good at managing their money than politicians and bureaucrats are. Of course, we will continue to try to do what the Prime Minister said, namely to simplify Norway. It means less bureaucracy, which means that we have to make changes to the Planning and Building Act, which has become completely hopeless. A lot of laws have to do something about it, not just talk about it. Innovation is fine. That's why it's so disappointing that the government is so actively countering the plans that exist for an ICT centre in Fornebu, with an interaction between the public and the private, where you can just get the benefits of this. A solidarity Norway – I think the Prime Minister and the Government are too concerned about having cross-border responsibility in Norway instead of concentrating on caring for the interests of the Norwegian population. I am pleased that the Prime Minister is now alerting much more stringent integration policies on immigrants, but I still want to argue that the best prevention is now to make a radical tightening of asylum immigration, so that we can avoid what are problems in many of the countries the Prime Minister is committed to helping, namely conflicts due to differences, different ethnic groups and language groups. We must avoid having such problems in the future in Norway. A safer Norway – yes, that's why we in the Progress Party want to have a legal right to the necessary healthcare, and not just words with content that you can't go to the courts to get enforced. We will continue to work to have the same rights to hospital treatment throughout the country – not as today, as one depends on the place of residence because the responsibility for hospitals is in the county municipality. The county council should be wound up, and Health Norway should be brought together into a single realm, so that all hospitals are financed mainly through input-based funding – that is, the Workers' Party's expression of unit price payments. It should be public health that ensures healthcare throughout the country, not the economy of the individual state. We can finance this with earmarked contributions from the employer and the employee for social security, so that health care and care for the elderly cannot be used as a justification for the overall increase in taxes and taxes. A safer Norway – yes, that means that we need to take crime trends seriously. We have also become more optimistic now in the Progress Party. After even Kristin Halvorsen, head of SV, suddenly gives talks with the same content that I have had over 20 years, there is hope that perhaps something can be done gradually – grasp the amended legal provisions that are necessary, and develop the fight against crime. Prevention is important to prevent those who are five, six, seven, eight and ten years today from becoming criminals, but the hard-boiled criminals we have to do something about now. I am calling for a plan for the size of our police force in 2005 so that we can get a methodological extension of the entire judicial system. We are facing challenges, and in particular we need to go through the public sector, which is hopelessly irrational. We will work towards this through a change, renewal and modernisation of public administration also based on the introduction of competition as an efficiency motor in the areas of the public sector where possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e764	Before we move on, the President will inform us that Per-Kristian Foss will take over Jan Petersen's place in the debate as requested by Jan Petersen. First replicator is Thorbjørn Jagland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e769	I note that when we talk on the left that there is too much childcare provision, that it is cut down on the school leave system, and that schools are weakened, it is pessimism and black paint. When the Progress Party talks about excessive taxes, too many regulations, it's optimistic tones and not black paint. Here, to a large extent, many of the dividing lines of Norwegian policy. I now find that Hagen speaks like a man of power. He has also received it from the sitting government. But what has he used this power for? Well, to sacrifice the care of the elderly, for which he wanted more money, but the first thing he does when he gets power is to push on the older investments, to participate in large increases in the self-payments in the case of hospital services, and to remove the sick pay scheme for the very least paid part-time and low-paid. I have to ask Carl I. Hagen why he has used this new power that he has been given, just to do these things and not to speak for the weakest.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e776	It now seems that the school leisure system is the most important thing for the Workers' Party, i.e. that someone should take care of the children while they are out of school. I wonder how the older part of the population, who has never been close to these goods, feels when this is now the most important thing for the Workers' Party. It's amazing. Then ask Thorbjørn Jagland how we have used the power. We have used the position we have, to participate in negotiations on the state budget. We have increased the special deduction for the elderly again, as I was the first to propose to remove. We have strengthened part of the fight against crime. But there are several things we are not satisfied with in the budget, and therefore it is not a common budget we have submitted with the Government. We have, in turn, given our support for a changed regime by the Government that prevented a tax and tax increase. When we are concerned with preventing tax increases, it is because we do not want to break the workplace with heavy taxes and taxes, because we do not want an increase in unemployment, which can be the result of choking innovation and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e783	The last thing the Progress Party shouldn't be using its power for, because it had the majority in favour with the Workers' Party. But they used their negotiating position just to negotiate what the Progress Party has been talking about this year after year, namely investments in the care of the elderly, which Alvheim has characterized as completely immoral. The sick pay system was abolished for the least paid and part-time women, who often work in hospitals and hospitals, who have also been characterised by John Alvheim as unsocial and immoral. I'm aware that you were driving and negotiating, but you were negotiating about the crazy things based on what the Progress Party has been talking about for very many years. The school leisure system has come because we have a completely different family pattern than before, where mother and father work outside, and we have started school for six - year - olds. It is necessary that children have a safe environment for their daily lives. I am aware that there is a disagreement between the Labour Party and the Advance Party, but that is our justification.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e788	Thorbjørn Jagland now says that we could have cooperated with the Workers' Party on lower taxes and charges. I have never had such an invitation to discuss this with Thorbjørn Jagland. On the contrary, there is just an increase in taxes and taxes that characterise the Labour Party's policy, so these are new tones. But it's interesting then that just a few days after Thorbjørn Jagland in the Newspaper, the government parties differed just to have dared to talk to Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party, and said that we are some primitive... – I'm not going to use all the other expressions, because they're not suitable for representation in terms of the characteristics of us – he is now inviting us to cooperate on lower taxes and charges. And that's what we're going to be happy to take up to the harvest when we get a chance to do, and that also applies to the care of the elderly. It is only Thorbjørn Jagland who has not realized that what has happened is that the municipalities that do not have the power to acquire plots and possessions to expand the care of the elderly are asking for part of this investment to take place over four years, and would like it in 2005 or 2006, if they do not reach it. The majority of the population have agreed to meet the wishes of the municipalities, and even Kristin Halvorsen has understood it, and is fully in agreement. So it's just Jagland who makes it this wrong way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e795	When Carl I. Hagen is going to explain this about the care of the elderly, he suddenly seems like a bureaucrat, then there are so many excuses and diffuse representations. The social conscience of the Advance Party has explained John Alvheim in a completely different way, and he has said it is immoral. And that's it, because the Progress Party wanted more into the older reform than what was actually adopted, but the first thing to do when you get a power position is to negotiate a lot of it and weaken the whole reform. About the school vacation scheme, the schools and kindergartens, I would say: A Swedish scientist has said that 70 pst. by young people who commit acts of violence can be picked out as early as the age of 12. It's the growth that's important, and you can actually pick them out if you have a public device to do it, and you can do something about it, so that they don't commit violent acts. It is all these things that the Progress Party will weaken through its policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e802	John Alvheim said something about the budget as it was in the opening phase. As we negotiated and received binding comments that the municipalities would be given an extension if they themselves wanted to, he has of course also changed his mind. And on a line from Thorbjørn Jagland in a change of words, John Alvheim has responded. So I could have heard after when he answered, the last answer in this area from John Alvheim, and not again make false claims. And if he talks to his own workers' party politicians in Kommune-Norway, the Municipal Councils' Central Association, he gets the answer that as long as these billions are there, it's fine if the municipalities can participate in that investment, even if they don't get a clarification on plot areas and plans for the municipality's own activity. So you can pick out possible future violent criminals at the age of 12. I don't believe in that. There are so many researchers and psychologists in this area that are imagining people on the one hand and on the other – not that it can be done. In any case, we haven't cut down on that type of activity at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e809	The next replicator is Einar Steensnæs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e812	The party of progress stands out among the parties here at Stortinget, perhaps with the exception of SV, because they believe that we can spend a lot more of the oil money without weakening the Norwegian economy. And therefore, the Progress Party can offer its voters much more of tax relief, much more to the police, much more to health, etc. But all those who advise the Norwegian economy, both in this country, different institutions and now the IMF, the International Monetary Fund, strongly warn. This will lead to increased inflation and interest rates. And that's to the detriment especially of those who have high loans and low incomes. I would like to ask Mr Hagen: what is the reason why the Progress Party can ignore such clear technical advice on the Norwegian economy, and thus pursue a policy that many would characterise as irresponsible?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e820	The representative, Einar Steensnæs, here gives a false picture of the policy of the Progress Party. When he says we want to use a lot more, that's not right. But if he studies a little bit with some economists, it's not like there's 1 or 2 billion kroner on the government budget balance that's crucial to interest. This is primarily the development of the oil price. And many of the trade economists say that you overestimate this with fine adjustments on the state budget. The interest rate is the result of monetary policy. And we've been in favour of another monetary policy that's more in line with that professionals, among other things. Therefore, Skånland is in favour, and more in line with international monetary policy. The interest rate would have fallen a long time ago and would have been much lower today if you didn't want to get the exchange rate back to the initial rental. And then it depends on how to use the funds. If you use e.g. some means of reducing taxes will reduce inflation. That's what we've done!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e829	I would like to ask Mr. Carl I. Hagen what he thinks is a slight increase in the use of oil money, if he believes that 20 billion kroner, for example. the use of oil money is irrelevant to the development of the Norwegian economy in terms of the level of interest rates and inflation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e834	I have no problem saying that $20 billion is an amount that would matter. Therefore, the Progress Party has never been close to proposing it. We have proposed some 20 billion kroner in tax reliefs, but we have also proposed corresponding reductions on the expenditure side, so that the difference has been a few billion kroner. So we've balanced both sides of the budget. I would like to stress that if you want a low inflation rate and think that it is a problem, the best way to do this must be not to increase the fees. That is why we were pleased that we received a limited increase in fees that the Government had proposed, through the compromise that we made with the Right and we agreed with it, and the price increase went down by 1⁄2 pst. As a result, we did not increase the fees. And when the state economy is good, we've said that if we get a dangerous inflation, the good state economy can be used to reduce taxes in Norway, and thus we have the opportunity to bring down inflation in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e841	In the current parliamentary situation, the Progress Party and the Right have cooperated in a number of areas. It has given us the power and opportunity to change the government's policy in both of us important areas, such as saving people from heavy tax burdens, shifting health policies in a better direction and strengthening security policies in the area of crime and combating violence. There are other areas that separate us. There we don't have the same opportunities to cooperate. But in health policy we have had a lot in common, so I'm a little surprised at what I read in the newspaper. The representative Hagen often says that we quote him wrong, and therefore I will quote him correctly and hope he is misquoted, for this cannot vote. He says in Stavanger Aftenblad: ‘Memberships that we impose on ourselves through our lifestyle should lead to a weakening of our health care rights.’ The article bears the most plentiful title: «The same rights for the sinful and the virtuous». I hope it is not the health service's job in retrospect to distinguish us according to such criteria. And I hope the representative Hagen agrees with the representative Alvheim and not with himself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e853	It is absolutely right that the Right Party and the Advance Party have gradually agreed on a number of health policy issues. We are very pleased about that, because in the past we were all alone on these proposals and opinions. When I made proposals about unit-price financing and this to the Willoch government many times, it was ridiculed by the Right. And when we talked about having the same right to a People's Security Fusion, whether it was a private or a public owned hospital, it was ridiculed and combated. So I agree with Per-Kristian Foss that here the Right has come much better with recent years, and I am pleased about that. I've never seen that quote. But I can confirm that I have said that the taxes on alcohol and tobacco should be earmarked for health care and included in public health. It is in the case of those who have a lifestyle that, to some extent – but not as exaggerated as the Prime Minister often says – leads to health care expenditure, I have talked about responsibility. I can reassure the representative Foss that that quote is obviously not correct. If you're sick and you need an operation, you have to get it whatever the reason for it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e860	Norway has become a multicultural society and more colorful community in recent years. The Progress Party is one-sided in making this a problem and a threat. The left does not overlook that these are challenges that we have to meet together. But we believe that these people have given Norway a new dimension that we would be poorer without. It is a fact that without our new compatriots, we in Norway would have had major problems in occupying jobs that are vital to many businesses and are of great importance in the public sector, which is not least evident in Oslo, but also in other cities and districts. Does Hagen agree that our new countrymen have given us an important resource, which has been of great importance, and which we can enjoy even more in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e867	I can confirm what the parliamentary leader of the Left says, that there is a great difference between the Left and the Progress Party. He says that the Left accepts that we are facing challenges as a result of having a multicultural society. The Prime Minister has also gone a long way when he talks about difficulties. We warned against this in the 1980s, saying that it would lead to problem areas and challenges for Norwegian society. Then we were led by, ridiculed and called by ugly names, because there were no problems, said the parties that stood for the clever immigration policy. Clearly, there are differences in jobs in a country with 8 million people and a country with 4 million people, which is the result of the population. And it is clear that many of these workers – there are many immigrants who do a good job, who are in and out of work, especially those who came first and did not get any help, who had to do themselves, stood on and adapted – also carry out important tasks that all other workers do. There is no difference between people who make an effort in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e874	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e877	Who can control Norway? For us who grew up with Einar Gerhardsen as the father of the country, it became difficult to imagine that others would or could lead this country. And when Gro was gradually established as the country mother, she was asked by her grandchild: grandmother, is it possible for a man to be prime minister? It is obvious that the Workers' Party has long had a considerable self-interest in nagging during the notion that only the Workers' Party is capable of ruling this country. A disturbing trend, especially the last harvest, towards unnecessary black-painting of the state of the Norwegian economy, which also contributed to the difficulty of gaining control and stability, shows that the Workers' Party has had problems adapting to the role of the opposition. The working party, despite all the gloomy predictions, has had a central government to deal with that has shown the ability to rule in two important areas. Firstly, it has the power to set a new political agenda. The Bondevik government rules, and it rules well. In key areas of society, significant actions and reforms have been carried out in different sectors to a far greater extent than the large proportion of the Norwegian press and opposition parties here in the United Kingdom had believed were possible, and also a little longer than many of us had dared to hope for. Secondly, it has been healthy and good for democracy with a shift of power. To the extent that the Workers' Party believes that the Centre parties have been through a useful adult training in relation to taking government responsibility, I believe this has also been a useful and, I would say, necessary experience for the Workers' Party in the opposition. And I think it's right to say that the experience has become so good that we can agree that this should continue for a while. But now the challenges are being addressed in the future. How can we cope with a rapidly changing world in terms of technological, social, economic and political conditions? We want greater security for living conditions and growing conditions, for health and care, for life and property. We have to recognise that there are huge gaps in the welfare model developed in the post-war period. Despite material wealth, we see increasing crime and violence, children and young people slip into alcohol and drug abuse, broken marriages and cohabitation that often put children in a difficult position, and a strong increase in mental disorders, as some examples. There is no simple recipe that leads us to the goal of a safer and better society. We therefore need a varied set of instruments and resources. At the same time, I believe it is appropriate to recognise that the political instruments also have their limitations, and that there are important Community values that cannot be passed on to society by decision in the Storting or in a local government, because these values are created between people who give something of themselves in the community: warmth, proximity, security and love. Our task as politicians must be to create conditions for such important Community values to be given greater space and greater attention, and where personal responsibility is also stressed along with the obligations and tasks that the public must discharge. When the Christian People's Party and the Central Government attach such great importance to renewing and strengthening family policy, it is precisely because we believe that families may be the most important ally we have, in cooperation with schools, sports, churches and various organizations and teams, to create a better society and a good, safe breeding environment for the children. In this context, cash support must also be seen as an offer to parents who, in a given care situation, prefer to address their needs for the care of their children differently from those of a publicly supported nursery. Cash support has been received with joy and gratitude from many families with children. The cash support has therefore come to stay. And we are proud of that, because it also represents a necessary breach with a long-standing adjustment in family policy. We want a safer, more solidarity Norway, not a Norway with growing living conditions differences, said the Prime Minister. And the question is, who will be part of the broad alliance in Stortinget to which the Prime Minister invited to do this? The question is how we want to housekeepers with the considerable resources we have to realize the vision of an innovative, solidarity and safer Norway. We are open to interact with all the parties in the Storting that share these visions and goals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e894	No one has signed up for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e897	The Prime Minister’s presentation had three interesting key points: an innovative Norway, a solidary Norway and a safer Norway. This summarises Norwegian policy on such a broad basis that hardly anyone can agree with this description.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e903	Disagree!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e908	– Hardly anyone may disagree with this description. Thank you, President. The problem is concrete, the problem is a lack of follow-up and the problem is a lack of concrete action. Let me take the innovative Norway first. There is little harmony between launching such slogans while increasing the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. It's actually a consequence of this government's policy. Increased expenditure on the sickness pay scheme is the result of this government’s policy. It was rather worse proposals from the Workers' Party, but it is of little comfort to those who live in reality's Norway and not in the political spirit. It's also a little bit small about R & D, i.e. research and development, from the Government. The fact that you say you have stopped a decline in appropriations is, of course, little to hit your chest because when Norway needs something more bold than this. I also want to challenge the government parties on a proposal that they are actually required to investigate and submit to the Stortinget, a proposal promoted jointly by the Right and the Workers' Party, aimed at both stimulating public research institutions through fund formations and stimulating private research. What do I mean by private research? Well, there's research and development in the company's own direction. Norway is among the lowest in Europe. We look at tax arrangements, tax reliefs, etc. deliberately submitted to research and development. Norway has to be raised higher here, and the government has to be concrete here. The application is located there from a large number. If the government really wants to invest in education, it has the Right's support in the Storting too, but then the debate has to be led away from the siding that it's talking about leisure problems. The school's problems are not in leisure. The school's problems lie in the morning, in the absence of further training opportunities, especially for teachers, in the lack of quality and in some areas in a lag behind with other countries. Here the Government also has the opportunity to apply for support from the Storting if it so wishes. What I may respond most to in the government's overall presentation is a kind of description of Norway without indicating a choice. When we hear such a description given by the Prime Minister, we are left with the question whether this is a description of the open, liberal state, built on conservative traditions. There was a little glimpse of it, as I heard the Prime Minister use expressions such as ‘respect for the individual’ on a couple of occasions and ‘reforms to preserve’. These are good, conservative slogans with a certain historical sound, but it has to be put into practice. There is still too much in the government's policy of believing in the social democratic ruling state. The Prime Minister said early in his presentation of the Government last year that he had more and more faith in attitudes and attitudes rather than steering through regulations, detailed regulations, and detailed regulations. I think we've seen too little of that from the government. After all, it has promoted virtually everything that has been there from the previous government, that is, the social-democratic, of detailed regulation proposals. We have had unnecessary arrangements such as Brustad bows and small boat registers, we still have a rigid work environment law, and there is still little willingness to soften in terms of opportunities for cooperation between the private and the public. Municipalities are still as tied as before in terms of not being able to choose private solutions where these are the best and cheapest. So I miss a concreteisation of this willingness to deregulate, this willingness to look at the traditional social-democratic governance philosophy differently. I miss a concreteisation of a policy of value creation, which was introduced by one of the government parties in particular, where small businesses are particularly disappointed and look at the lack of results, not least in relation to the many promises of the Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e923	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e926	Per-Kristian Foss now made a statement that amazed me very much. It may be because he had to step in at short notice, but if that's not the reason, I have to say I wonder what he means. He said that the school’s problems ‘are not in leisure’, the school’s problems lie ‘in the morning’. It really breaks with the whole idea that we have founded for Norwegian school and pedagogics, namely that learning must be done in safety. Insecure students are unable to learn. If you're in school and you don't know what to do when you get home, maybe into an unsafe community, you can't learn either. When we got started at school from six years old, we saw the need to expand the school leisure system. We also saw the need to develop the school leisure system for the following two classes of years, because there had to be a correlation between the situation of parents and children. I have to ask for an explanation of what the Right really stands for in terms of the school leave system and the relationship with the school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e933	Yes, I mean everything that has been said. The school’s challenges today lie in school content. The school’s challenges lie in some important areas of its inability to follow up on a professional basis. Many teachers feel that way. Many teachers feel subdued when their ability to provide is limited as a result of school rules. It's in the school's content these problems are. Safe students are students who also feel that the school gives them something. The public is responsible for the schoolwork. Leisure is primarily the responsibility of parents. The school should focus on the contents of the school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e938	In a reply earlier this evening, the Right was concerned about the Government’s position on the so-called liberalised gas market in the EU. This has also been addressed in many other contexts. They have shown a marked impatience in the dialogue that Norway has with the EU to ensure large Norwegian values and to ensure Norwegian energy interests. There is no need to hide that there is a conflict of interest between Norway and the EU, for example: for the use of a gas pipeline system which Norway considers to be part of the total production system. My question is: why is the Right so impatient and so critical that in this situation the Norwegian Government is actually trying to achieve better results, better interpretations of the Gas Directive than what is in the cards today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e945	The reason lies simply in what Statoil has also openly justified: we no longer have friends in changing the Gas Directive, in the EU. Then we must take the initiative and be the leader in definitions and work within the EU. Norway, as the largest gas exporter to the EU, has significant interests in the economic and commercial freedom of Norwegian companies, including Statoil, to enter and invest in the gas market in order to secure the whole chain, from the gas to the Norwegian base until it is sold to consumers in the EU. Here are many of our competitors in front of us. I focus on what Statoil Director Harald Norvik has just said: I need more freedom of action to be able to keep up with the market. We've started to get hung up on. I think that even the Center Party here should listen a little to what is the Statoil Director's experience after 12 years of leadership in the company.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e952	It is striking that the right is so little concerned with environmental issues. Many major challenges waiting for us were not commented on in Foss' posts, but he spent a lot of time making unwarranted claims about government policy. Now there are plans for a large-scale expansion of Upper Otta. It seems that the Right is fascinated by both the plans and the plans to build gaseous power plants, despite the existence of more forward-looking alternatives. The stuttering representatives Jan Tore Sanner and Børge Brende from the Right have stated that they want to protect Upper Otta. It provides a basis for a certain hope. But we don't know if Sanner and Brende are lonely environmental whales in the Right Group. Can Per-Kristian Foss reassure all those who now wonder if the value conservative Right will contribute to the expansion of Upper Otta, and that the environmental interests will also lose the last hydropower force in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e961	I can only stress that there are a number of questions on the right that I was not given the opportunity to touch in a five-minute post – if there is a certain understanding of that. We have a width of themes. Total for gas power plants and Upper Otta: these are themes that we haven't yet concluded on. But I want to focus on two essential aspects. One is that Upper Otta is in the overall plan The Great Government has dealt with and adopted, in Category III, where it is possible to expand. In other words, I say that it is possible to expand. The second is that for five years now, the Storting has had a break in decision-making. The decision-making pause has led to it in terms of the development of new energy – I almost get to use the term, President – the immoral situation that today we are supplied with very polluting Danish coal power plants. At least that's bad environmental policy. We have to be more self-sufficient. In the long term, we're going to be exporters of clean and fine energy. So I have to say that I am also concerned that a number of the gas power projects that have been put forward become more than airlocks, that in other words they can be realized, that someone is behind them and will realize them. I think the new gas power technology looks very exciting. It is precisely the visions of new technologies that enable the construction of a gas power plant, the generation of electricity through gas power plants without CO2 emissions, which may also allow Norway to become a high-ranking energy supplier to Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e972	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e975	The Prime Minister’s statement shows that the Government is in an active period of work with strong political will to follow up the objectives and guidelines set out in the Declaration of Adults. In the summer of 1998, problems in the international economy seriously hit the Norwegian economy, while oil prices fell dramatically. We were able to demonstrate the effects of globalisation on people's everyday lives. The strong interest rate increase that followed, and the economic constraints that the new situation required, have, of course, for some time limited the political and economic space of the Government. But the tough medicine seems to work. The International Monetary Fund has given recognition to the government's economic line, interest rates are falling, and economists trace further interest falls before summer. The stabilisation of the economy means that the central government can now focus more strongly on the long lines of social development. The majority has recently had a wide-ranging debate on Norway’s relationship with the EU in the light of their own presentation. This statement is an important basis for the more long-term plans of the central government for the development of Norwegian society, because it assumes that the 1994 referendum commits and is to be respected, that the no has not led Norway into international isolation, and that the Government in the development of our society places great emphasis on exploiting our political and economic freedom. This freedom of action was updated in the context of the debate on the relationship between the Norwegian krona and the euro. It would not be in Norway's interest to conclude agreements with the EU that weaken our freedom of action in areas that are important for, among other things. welfare, employment and resource management. There is reason to commend the government’s handling of the euro issue, which made it clear that a close link between the euro and the euro is incompatible with the agreed Norwegian monetary policy. Many of the objectives and quality requirements set out by the Prime Minister in his statement require a flexible monetary policy that can take care of the desired political and economic freedom of action. Technological development and globalisation contribute to centralisation and new class divisions. In line with the Waksenå Declaration, the Prime Minister drew up ‘a solidarity Norway’ as an important political clue. This is perhaps the biggest challenge on the threshold of the millennium. The government has announced its own big-time message on the hemorrhaging of living conditions. When the Government refers to this message as a ‘balancing message’ instead of a descriptive ‘distinction message’, I take it as an expression that this should be an operational message addressing the problems and challenges of Difference Norway, and that identifies concrete policy measures against increasing differences in our society. District policy is also about solidarity and the smoothing of living conditions. Challenges to centralisation are a demanding task. But we have a duty to meet this challenge too in an offensive way. It is impressive that the Government of a budget for austerity can propose an increase in direct regional policy measures over the State budget by over 25 pst. But changing the move pattern requires measures across a wide range. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has therefore been given the task of coordinating the overall regional policy of the departments concerned. In this ‘large-scale district policy’, there is the potential to challenge centralisation forces primarily. Against this background, there is some sympathy for the fact that the Workers' Party in the Nutrition Committee has put a stop to an important initiative to move out some State jobs. Let me conclude by saying a few words about culture as a field of activity in a new millennium. We need an active cultural policy as a counterbalance to globalisation and the material and commercial values that characterise social development. Culture contributes to better quality of life and well-being. Culture gives roots and strengthens the identity and cohesion of society and triggers creativity and the local spirit of hard work. Culture will in the future be an important dimension in our lives, a dimension we have to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e995	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e998	The Central Party parliamentary leader used his intervention to close the door that the Prime Minister has kept open. Jacobsen stated that there was no chance of achieving monetary policy cooperation with the EU, while the Prime Minister has stated that dialogue should continue. I choose to stick to the Prime Minister. Jacobsen was also on other sides of the relationship with Europe. My question now really concerns one of the other issues raised by the opposition: Europol, which is a police cooperation between EU countries, also open to non-members – very effective and decisive in combating cross-border, professional crime, which Norway sadly notes more and more. What is the reasons given by the Central Party for claiming that Norway should not connect to Europol?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1005	I don't think the Prime Minister and I have a different view of the question that Per-Kristian Foss raised initially. What happened during the budgetary procedure last autumn was that the Right Party and the Workers' Party jointly presented a proposal requesting a closer link between the Norwegian krona and the euro. All attempts to clarify what this meant ended up in a zero situation, except that there was a question of getting into forms of purchase support agreements – or what is also referred to as loan arrangements. That's what came out of this concrete drive we had in connection with the budget. What happened further was that after the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance had been in Brussels and got a clarification, it turned out that these models, which were the only models that the Right had launched, were incompatible with Norwegian monetary policy. In doing so, we have also brought this matter down to the level at which it belongs – down to the ground.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1010	I strongly argue that it is incompatible to pursue a fixed-rate policy while working together with the European Union in the field of monetary policy. But here, the government just doesn't want to – i.e. I get to correct myself and say, obviously, here the Center Party won't. I hope the Government will. I will return to the question of police cooperation. It's actually so important in this context. It is under construction, and I point out that at a recent meeting of the Nordic Council, representatives of both the Swedish Government and the Danish police authorities stated that Europol does not have any supranational elements at all, contrary to the opinion of the head of the centre party, Anne Enger Lahnstein, when she expressed her skepticism of entering Europol or seeking a form of association. This is serious, because this actually prevents the effective fight against cross-border crime, to which all countries in Europe have placed significant emphasis, including countries outside the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1017	I'm not sure if it's an advance when Per-Kristian Foss says there's no conflict between a fixed-price policy and linking the dollar to the euro. That's exactly the point, that a connection of the Norwegian krona to the euro requires us to go back to a fixed-rate policy that we have left, which we left in 1992. But it is possible that this was a delay. However, I stand by what was said in my first answer, that the line – the support purchase agreement – that was the Right Model, according to my opinion, the view of the Centre Party and the Government is incompatible with Norwegian monetary policy. In the case of Europol, neither the Government nor the Central Party have taken a final view on this issue. Everything indicates that we have no reason to rush. [[The President clubs.]] The EU itself has...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1024	Time's up!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1027	... not clarifying what is going to be the contents of Europol, and as far as I understand it, it is going to be a summit meeting in Tampere later this year where this is to be clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1032	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1035	I'm not quite sure how successful I think this season has been. I wonder if I should suggest that the President in the next debate must be Anne Grosvold, so that the challenges get a little closer. I also believe that what was recorded in the debate, namely the Prime Minister's speech, was not a particularly visionary speech. I think it was marked by a government that does not absolutely want anything, but that will sit first and foremost. There is also some of the problem in Norwegian policy, as I see it. There is a majority constellation that has the ability to take some of the most important challenges for the future seriously. It's not the constellation that the Right and Advance Party belong to. We get more right-wing policy because the central parties, the Labour Party and the SV are unable to find each other in the political debate. This leads to two things: firstly, it leads directly to more right-wing policies in relation to the state budgets adopted and, secondly, budgetary settlements have now been adopted three times between the centre parties, the Right and the Progress Party. That's what makes many young people stop in the school leisure system, that the price goes up, and that many of those who should have been there are no longer able to afford it. That's what makes no one, no matter how rich they are, contribute a single penny more to the state fund, even though the common arenas for kids are crying for money, for example. to the school. But it also does another important thing with the political debate. It is that it is primarily on the Right and the Progress Party – perhaps especially the Progress Party – half the debate is taking place. That means that Carl I. Hagen just needs to cremate a little bit, so everyone has to discuss what he's most concerned about. But I have to shout and scream, and yet I rarely get there. It simply means that Carl I. Hagen never needs to answer why he represents the most child-friendly, anti-youth and anti-future party on the whole Bigton. He gets away without having to answer a single question about why he wants to cut so much at school, and about why he's going to cut so much at kindergartens and at school. And then he comes here and says he's been right for 15 years in the debate on violence and crime. It's completely wrong. The progress party has been wrong in the case of children and young people for 20 years, and in all their existence. And this doesn't need an SV to say to him. Maybe he would take a trip to the police and talk to them a little. I've been around the police a lot and I talked to them, and they say, the part of the violence and crime prevention that is about strengthening the police is just a little bit of it. It's all the prevention work, everything that happens in school, everything that happens in leisure time, everything that happens in kindergartens – that's what's important to prevent increased crime. And there's nothing for the Progress Party to do. There is an important reason why they should be left out of influence on the State budgets to be adopted in the future. The challenges that SV considers to be the most important are, first of all, taking into account the future, children and young people first in the political debate. Now the municipalities are cutting around on all possible measures for children and young people. And it's not about single municipalities, Prime Minister, it's about a lot of municipalities. That's not how you build the future. The second is that we need a value debate. We need an inclusive society. Very many immigrant youth, who on average are more law-abiding than Norwegian youth, feel that they are being trained, as the situation is now. They feel that people around them really think they're criminals. We have to learn to be color blind in this society. We have to learn how to treat people as individuals. We have to learn that everyone should have the same chance of trying anyway, and that no one should meet with prejudices. The third is the fight for the environment. It's a future fight. If we don't put environmental policy in a completely different direction, we'll leave the dishes to our kids. Then it's the ones that have to take the job and the tough priorities ahead. Now the air situation in many cities is so that kindergartens have to keep the kids inside all day, because it snows too little so that the dust doesn't bind and lie down on the ground. It is this that is the challenges of the future. They cannot be resolved through continued cooperation between the Centre Parties and the Right Party and the Advance Party. They can only be solved if the majority that really exists on the Stortinget, old friends in the center, are triggered, and you change the course.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1056	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1059	The debate has shown that the SV and the Workers' Party are united on a main line, namely the need to strengthen Community arrangements in the future. After all, the central parties have now undergone a significant process of change as a result of their accession to the government, both in terms of economic policy and not least in terms of European policy. SV has said that the party is willing to participate in a possible majority government in the future. I would like to ask whether SV is also prepared to review the necessary changes in order to assume responsibility, as has happened to the other parties. Are you willing to take a closer look at its economic policies? Are you willing to look through your European policy and become more reality-oriented, so that you get closer, not least to the left-wing socialist parties in Europe, which is necessary in order to promote foreign policy as well?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1067	Yeah, I think it's actually a big challenge for all of us if we're going to be able to create a majority of parties on the Storting that can re-convert the course in a forward-looking way. I think that includes the Workers' Party and the SV. If we're going to do it in this period, we're going to have to do at least one more center party. I think it requires that the Workers' Party has a slightly different view of parties other than what I have noticed many times, namely the assumption that other parties are not supporting parties for the Workers' Party, but have their own political platform. That's what SV has adopted. We have a political platform, but we want a higher level of ambition for our own policies. We want to get more done by it, and then we're not going to do what several of the center parties have done, lay down and weakened their profile. We are interested in negotiating to get through as much of what we can contribute to a more solidarity society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1072	Seen children and young people first, said the representative Halvorsen. She had a real and intense commitment in this area. I'm glad. It is in line with the priorities that the Government wants to take, namely to focus on children and youth. Do not pretend that the government parties have made themselves flat for the Advance Party and the Right, as the representative Halvorsen is now trying to create the impression. We have a significant increase in kindergarten places. We have strengthened measures for children and young people. There is a voluntary report for treatment in the United Kingdom, which shows that the Government has long-term objectives in order to strengthen the situation for children and young people. I would rather encourage Kristin Halvorsen to contribute constructively to strengthening the alliances in the Stortinget that really focus on children and youth, along with the centre parties – the center friends, as she called it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1077	It's not me and SV this is on. I'm at the barricades of these kids and the kids who need it the most, who need a lot more political attention from what's the majority on the Biggest. But I don't have much to do with it on SV's behalf when you go into company with Carl I. Hagen and send the bill on to small children. It is true that the government has made a priority of children and young people, but that is primarily because of the cash support. Now we see that around many schools it is the slightly larger children who actually pay the cash support. It is not right that this government should give priority to the community of children and young people. On the contrary, I believe that the cash support is a high price to pay for some of the kids who should have had more adults around them. We all know that some kids are being abused at home. [[The President clubs.]] They should have had more adults who saw what they were experiencing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1084	Then the speaking time was over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1087	They have not been helped by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1092	It was an interesting exchange between Thorbjørn Jagland and Kristin Halvorsen. In my opinion, the conclusion of this exchange was that the head of the Workers' Party actually closed the door to SV's government ambitions. At the Swedish National Board meeting recently, Kristin Halvorsen came up with a rather interesting play. She demanded of herself and of greater clarity – an ambitious goal. Now we've heard Kristin Halvorsen in this debate, and I recorded that she actually spent most of the time criticising almost all the parties in the Stortinget, not only the center parties, but also the Progress Party. This could be because there was too little time. At this moment I'm in the generous corner, so I'm going to give Kristin Halvorsen one minute extra speaking time to tell Stortinget what we didn't hear in the post. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1099	If Kristin Halvorsen is going to have one more minute's speaking time, it's up to Johan J. Jakobsen to stop talking.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1102	Then I would like to make some clear appeals to the Centre Party, because it is the opinion of the Centre Party and the role of the Centre Party in Norwegian policy that determines that the Right Party and the Advance Party have such a great influence. In fact, in many of the things that the Central Party and SV have agreed on, Johan J. Jakobsen, me and several others that I can see around here, had the opportunity to negotiate something quite different than to let Carl I. Hagen have the veto right. It's about the common good. Why is it so bad around many schools? It's because there's no real priority, either in terms of content or resources. Why is it that kids in the danger zone in Oslo have to wait a year for help? That is because they are not properly prioritised. All of this, dear Jakobsen, I am at any time prepared to cooperate with the Center Party on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1107	Then the president hopes that she will not disappoint Kristin Halvorsen too much when she says that she does not intend to invite programme managers to lead the negotiations of the Stortinge. [[Laughter]] Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1112	The ambition of the left is to renew Norwegian policies in important areas. It is therefore satisfactory, after half a year of government participation, to state that we have been involved in reorientating policies in all the areas that we prioritised before the elections. We have had a more offensive environmental policy. The government has let the environment go ahead, both in the case of Upper Otta and in the case of shooting grounds in the East. There has been more investment on the railways, an offensive has been put in to improve air quality in cities. In short, the change of government has provided a better environment for good environmental policy. It must be a cross-section of mind for SV, who wants to return to a workers' party government, to record all the improvements made in environmental policy, despite the fact that in some context we are cooperating with the Progress Party and the Right. The left is working for a forward-looking industrial policy. That is why we have received an offensive IT policy in Norway. Research and education are strengthened. Targeted efforts are being made to reduce the form field, which is a major problem, not least for the smallest enterprises. Decisions have already been taken to make it cheaper to carry out a generation change in the family-run enterprises. In short, the offensive we promised for small businesses is under way. So then we are in the situation that while Per-Kristian Foss and Right refer to good purposes in its programme, we are involved in changing the policy in practice in this area. The last is definitely the small businesses most earned. Rule of the people and openness are important left-wing issues. There has been more transparency in practice since the entry of new fingers into the department drawers. It is clear that the connection made by the Government to the public announcement will increase transparency in important areas. Decisions have been taken by the Government on service declarations for state agencies. There's one of many examples that now users are put in the center in a different way than before. In short, it has become a climate change, with greater transparency and greater respect for the citizen in his meeting with the government. The left is committed to taking a force for groups that have not had strong enough speakers to reach them in the struggle for resources. That's why the big stake in psychiatry is welcome. It came well, but too late. I don't think it would be possible in any other area to have such great negligence for so long without strong organizations having made sure that there was a general strike every time a budget was provided. The government has presented an action plan for the disabled, including: leads to an extension of the system of personal assistants. In short, there are important groups, and important ceilings have been taken in areas that have been neglected for a long time. In a number of areas, the left and the other governmental parties may point to solid results. This government does not govern the premises of others and from the philosophy of self-government. It will shape social development, and it does. For the Left, it's very satisfying that we're in and we're getting an impact on our business. Now we want more results. The left wants a simpler Norway. It means increased municipal freedom of action, and it means less bureaucracy for business. We want the user to have a simpler meeting with the public. We want less bureaucracy in areas where we see resources being wasted today. It happens when the teacher becomes a bureaucrat, it happens when the surgeon spends more time on paper than on the patients, and it happens when the police stay in their offices. Left wants an innovative Norway. Many of the jobs we live in are not yet created. We need a strong commitment to research and education because knowledge gives the key to success with innovative Norway. Left will a sustainable Norway. We need to prioritize the environment and think in the long term. Let's do Upper Eight. The expansion of Upper Otta will only offset the growth of energy consumption in Norway for three or four months. That's not the answer to the challenges we're facing. It's a conversion that goes on the growth of consumption, that's the answer. Norway has opportunities for most other countries only to dream of. It is the possibilities and problems that should be in focus. And for us to succeed, we need cooperation and a better cooperation climate. There have been some positive notes in today's debate. They have not come from the largest opposition party. Let's hope that's passing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1135	The regulatory time is running out. The President proposes that this meeting continue until the current map has been completed – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1139	Children and young people have been at the heart of this debate, and I think that is good, but I remember that the Labour Party said in front of this parliamentary term: seniority and health first. One can, as one now hears the debate, almost wonder if it is abandoned. In any case, the debate on the situation of children and young people must be conducted on a realistic basis. When Thorbjørn Jagland says that kindergarten expansion has stopped, that's not right. The figures we are currently sitting with indicate that there will be at least 5,000 new places in 1998. There should have been more, but one cannot say that 5,000 places are'stop'. In the case of the school holiday scheme, it should be noted that from 1995 there has been an annual decrease from the harvest semester to the spring semester in the figure of those who use it at about a quarter. 4 pst. At country level, slightly different from municipality to municipality. The Ministry of Education does not have so many figures as to indicate that the figures for the year will be clearly different from those for the previous year. We will only be able to know more about this in April, because the reports will be in by 31 March. To Foss, who claimed that the government has no policy that works well for small and medium-sized enterprises, I just have to briefly state that we have already relieved the burden of generation change in family-owned enterprises, which is actually the main gravity or a very large proportion of Norwegian enterprises. We have made it easier for small knowledge businesses, including: by establishing option arrangements. We have improved access to IT skills and overreached what we promised 500 new IT study sites. It's going to be 835. We've invested 200 million. SEK to four regional seed funds as an important instrument for innovation. Some in the IT industry have actually stated that the current year's budget is the best IT budget in a very long time. I think the facts speak for themselves. And once we're in IT, Carl I. Hagen said the government is working against an IT center at Fornebu. No, in what we have presented to the Stortinget, we have made it clear that we are creating such a centre in collaboration between public and private. But we want a real competition for attractive plots and building masses – and I honestly thought that was in the spirit of the Progress Party, the competition party above all – not to tailor it to a resourceful group, as the Labour Party and the Advance Party can turn on, if the rumors are true. I was predicting an increase in unemployment beyond 1999. Yes, unemployment often goes up and down somewhat, so he can quickly get straight into it that it can go up something from the happy very low level we have now. But it's not just Jagland who's seen it. Even in a line change to Jagland in the financial debate last fall, I said that we take such warnings from different environments seriously. Now we have low leave, yes, we have partly a shortage of labour in some industries. The Labour Party and others can be confident that the Government will continue to give full priority to employment, low unemployment and then pursue policies. And maybe the most important thing is to get interest down in that context. Last time we had high interest rates, under the Labour Party regime in 1992-1993 – then it was actually up to 17-18 p.m. in the worst, about twice what we have now – we also had a high level of unemployment. Now, fortunately, we have low leave. We're still going to bet on keeping it low, even if we can get some swings up and down. It also depends on a moderate income statement. So finally, about the cooperation between the parties. Igland has several times claimed that Odd Roger Enoxsen has said in an interview that the Centre should refocus its policy towards the Workers' Party. Actually, he hasn't said that; I've read it several times. But he has said that with the policy center traditionally stands for, the Workers' Party is close to us on a number of distribution policy issues. That's also my opinion. So we don't have to change, but we keep our policies for that to happen. The Labour Party has therefore also cooperated with the Government on a number of such issues in the coming year and a half we have run, but they have chosen to stay out of budgetary cooperation because of one specific matter. And there I'll give tribute to the Progress Party and the Right, who have been willing to find solutions through subsidiary voting, partly far away from what they would primarily like. Carl. I. Hagen said that the statement at many points would gather. I'm glad. This is a government – and I'm going to be a prime minister – for all the people, not just for some parties. The challenges we face, and the situation of a minority government, require cross-party cooperation. Kristin Halvorsen said this is a government that doesn't want anything, it just wants to sit. No, this government will sit because we want something, and we want more than what we've pulled so far.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-11-2.ana.ud146e1159	That being the case, it is no. 3 finished. The President will propose that the Prime Minister's statement be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
