ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e42	The representative John Dale, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate of the Telemark County, Thorleif Vikre, is present and will take the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the President of Stortinget, Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, on leave on 21 and 22 April to attend the Nordic-Baltic Parliamentary Presidential Meeting in Estonia. by the representative of the Olav Akssen on leave on Thursday 15 April in order to attend a meeting of the Council of Europe's Committee on Refugees in Paris. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: for the district of Buskerud: Gerd Johnsen for the county of Hordaland: Gard Folkvord3. Gerd Johnsen is elected to the Lamentations for the time she meets the President of the Stortinge, Kirsti Kolle Grondahl.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e85	Gard Folkvord is present and will take the seat. The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e90	On behalf of the big business representatives Jan Petersen, Jan Johnsen and myself, I would like to put forward proposals for the early creation of gas power plants in the framework of the Kyoto agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e95	The representative, Astrid Marie Nistad, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e98	On behalf of Sverre Hoddevik, Kjell Opseth and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the operating conditions of the Haugland Rehabilitation Centre – Health Region III institution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e103	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that this morning's meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the time of regulation. 15.00 until the current map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to this proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e119	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines of response following the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and following contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e130	As a case spokesman, I am delighted to note that the main features of the setting are widely debated. The communication on the economy of the state high-level sector has been submitted on the initiative of the Stortinget. The background is that, in recent years, there have been reports that the budgetary situation at many levels of government is very difficult. The message is focused on a production and a review of the economy of the hills. Important factors such as quality, efficiency and productivity are not addressed. We will therefore come back to these factors and other current and important issues that concern the government spheres, during the management of the research message, the dimensioning message and the work on the settings of the Mjøs selection. The notification gives a summary of the economic situation of the state high-level sector as a whole. As a result, actual developments in the individual or departmental spheres within the individual spheres may differ to a greater or lesser extent from those of the sector as a whole. The Committee agrees with the Ministry that it is most likely to consider the sector as a whole, and we agreed early in the process in the Committee to refrain from commenting on the developments of the various universities in this matter. The notification shows that both the university sector and the high-spherical sector have weakened the economy in the period 1988-97, although the nominal increase in the proceeds has been over 100 pst. The conversion to fixed crowns is the economy of the high-spherical stratum — measured by ‘expenditure per cent. student’ – weight of approximately 130 million. kr. The Court of Justice has essentially held that the use of "expenses per. students’ over a given period of time as an appropriate indicator to assess developments in the economy in the high-level sector. At the same time, we have noticed that several hearing bodies have objections and supplements when it comes to pointing out other factors that have a decisive impact on the high school economy. The Hearing Officers believe that during the current period this has been binding up an increasingly large proportion of the Hajskole budget in fixed costs. These developments set clear limits for the høskolene's freedom of action, and we therefore believe that it is necessary to continue to develop indicators that can capture the cost-driven factors that are different for different high-spheric spheres. This is needed to ensure a more realistic budgeting process for the future government budgets. It is particularly important that allocations of resources take account of the fact that expenditure per year. Students vary widely between different education systems, so that the universities find it interesting to take on responsibility for more cost-requiring study. The message clearly shows that there may be a great deal of distance between the image presented to the Storing in the budget paper, and the remoteness of the skyscrapers themselves thinks they are experiencing when it comes to justice in the allocations. The plans in the message for the further analysis and mapping work give hope that this will be better in the future. However, there is reason to point out that this work, among other things. it must take place through improvements and simplifications and coordination in the existing reporting system, and that one must not oblige the universities to use even more resources for reporting and documentation. The Committee also asks the Ministry to assess whether other aspects of the management system and reporting can be made simpler so that a greater part of the resources can be released for professional purposes. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 12 for 1998-99, a meeting of the Committees on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and Monetary ‘The Committee considers that transparent budget allocation criteria are important, inter alia, in order to allow institutions to make long-term and targeted adjustments to their budgeting, and calls on the Ministry to ensure greater transparency on the budget allocation criteria for different types of education requested by the Higher Education Council.’;» This is still the Committee's view, and we are asking for the Storting to be briefed on the criteria that will be used in the budget allocation of the various budget headings. This information must be provided in the context of the State budget for the year 2000. A large majority of the Committee notes that there is a clear trend towards increasing research and development activities at state universities. These developments are positive and should be stimulated. There is a broad consensus that higher education should be available to the largest possible proportion of the population, and a clear multiplicity suggests that there is a need for a stronger focus on decentralised higher education. It is a clear commitment that these offers are of the same professional quality as regular studies. Decentralised education is usually more costly than the ordinary provision of higher education, and funds have been provided for this purpose in the current year’s budget. The majority will still stimulate those marbles that publish part of their offerings. Our whole education system is in a strong transition. Both general societal developments and changes in the composition of higher education seeking groups will continue in the high school sector. In the context of the reform of continuing education and training, a growing market for student provision will be adapted to different groups of adult students. All of this will impose new and greater demands on the universities and require organisational, professional and pedagogical changes. This process of conversion needs to be stimulated so that the higher spheres are able to meet the many new challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e165	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e168	The background to this message is the Exploration of the Cost Calculation Committee. We know that there has been a debate between the Cost Calculation Committee and the Swedish Higher Education Council. The Ministry has in part tried to negotiate in this conflict. At least they have tried to find some kind of compromise, a common understanding of the economy in the higher education sector. This message, as the case-rapporteur Løvik said, is an order shop. It is the Stortinget who has asked for this message. Nevertheless, the majority's conclusion is not clear as to how we should perceive what the Storting believes about the economy. Who's right when they're trying to describe evolution? Is it the Higher Education Council, the Department or the Cost Calculation Committee? It would have been desirable, and it would probably have created some minor problems in the future, that the Storting could have tried to change the sun and the wind and concluded that we perceive the evolution to be like this and so, and thus in many ways tried to start from scratch again. I expect the debate on developments from 1992 to today will continue. So my question to the case rapporteur is: Shouldn't the majority have tried to conclude something clearer about the cost developments that have been, and said something about it, be a little more specific about what should be invested by the crowns and ears to compensate for the development we have had, in order to try to resolve further discussion – do I not know if we can, but at least try to reduce the risk of further discussion? Now the discussion itself is not a danger, but at least they should have tried to resolve this conflict and thus concluded with a proposal for a sum.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e179	The representative of Reikvam is associated with the large majority of the committee, who notes that during the period 1988-1997 we have had a decrease of approx. 130 million. And we've also found out a lot of other things. When it comes to what the representative Rekvam mentions about the discussion that has been between different actors here, it is likely that the High School Council has been given the right in its assessments by far. So I think the committee majority has been reasonably clear and has deepened what the government had already found in the message. So the question is, once we have found this – and that will be found by reading the message and setting that he himself has been in, a little bit closer – what do we do? What has been said by the majority is that the budgetary consequences of this are to come back to us in the context of the future budget. I know both the Council of State and the Department so well that I believe they understand that this is quite a clear signal that something has happened here that the Committee notes has been aggravating. When it comes to Mr Reikvam's thoughts that we should now bind everything up, for example. The 2000 budget and giving a clear signal about it, the majority have said that we will let the ministry see this as part of a healthy life and come back to it in the future budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e188	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e191	First, let me give the case rapporteur credit and praise for a very good work on this message. It's been close to exemplary, so he'll bring it with him when we have the debate. The state colleges are probably the most important instrument we have for letting the whole country participate in the development of skills and knowledge. Through a very decentralised structure and a wide range of disciplines, we ensure that it is never far from the individual educational candidate to the nearest place that can provide an offer. Following the reform of higher education, where we reduced the number of institutions to 26 through many mergers, there has been a major debate on the economy at every budgetary procedure. There has been a big gap between the appropriations that have come from the Storting and the reality that the colleges have claimed to experience. This situation led the Stortinge to ask for a separate case about the economy to try to reach a larger consensus on the reality description and to draw the line forward. It is clear that we need to come back to the concrete proposals for appropriations and the amount of the appropriations in the annual budgets. St.meld. No 26 on the economy of the state higher education sector is very limited and did not give the Committee great opportunity to look far ahead. It seems to me that the bureaucracy in the Ministry of Church, Education and Research has done an excellent job of describing history and giving us an opportunity to form a picture of what the situation has been, but the political work, the thoughts of the future direction, is virtually absent. This is disappointing and provided the Committee with limited opportunities to provide guidance on future policies. From this we could of course only process the message very quickly, write in the setting that we thank the department for the information, we want the council and his crew properly Easter and come back to the matter on a later occasion. Nevertheless, we have, largely as a unanimous committee, chosen to do some reflections and draw up some lines on how the economy and the allocation system will work in the future. There is a unanimous proposal for a decision to inform the Storting of the criteria used for the allocation of funds. We've had a situation where it's been impossible to figure out a formula for allocating funds to colleges for too long. I think that if the colleges and we, too, just get the possibility of transparency in the calculation basis, then it's possible to establish a common sense of reality. The committee has been very clear that in this setting we should not go into single schools. The message is general, and of course, everyone in the committee has their heart children that we could imagine fighting for. But we choose not to do it here, we choose to see the sector as a whole. I think this is wise and the right way to process these kind of messages. Some things and the distribution between different institutions we get back into the annual budgets and on later occasions. One aspect of the Committee's position is that additional costs of professional training should be included as a stronger criterion in the distribution. This is something I expect the Department and the Council of State to come back to. Decentralised higher education is essential for bringing education into the regions. The growth of higher education will be among adults who want to continue their education, re-fill and new opportunities to take part in their education. Today, we see that competence is increasingly drawn towards the largest cities. That's where the major universities and colleges exist, that's where the research environments are, and that's where the competence workplaces are largely established. That means either we just have to accept that we get a large-scale centralization of competence and thus also of people, or we have to bet strongly on that higher education still needs to be more decentralised than today. That is why I am very pleased that a broad majority support the priority of decentralised higher education. It is then necessary to allocate funds in the individual budgets, which stimulate the economic incentives of the higher education institutions which outsource part of their offerings, so that a greater part of the education can take place in the regions. This is a crucial part of the reform of continuing education, because we cannot demand that adult people in the districts who want higher education and who need higher education in order to continue in their jobs or get a new career should break up from a home and family, children and spouse, and move into the larger cities in order to fill up their skills. It must be much closer to where people live. I am glad that this is a central part of the setting, and something we have to work on in the future. All agree that the research share in Norway needs to be increased. The size has even recently decided that we should rise to the OECD average within a reasonable time or in the next few years. This means that Stortinget is very concerned that research in Norway will increase. There is a great difference today between how universities and colleges finance their research efforts. Universities have a research share in relation to the number of students they have at the place of study, while universities conduct research without any specification of these funds. There is no doubt that there is a very high level of competence in many places. The Committee is aware that it wishes to increase research efforts at higher education institutions. Then, of course, there's an opportunity to finance it by doing the same thing at universities: giving a research share per. student. But it has proved not to be a good model, because the number of students swings up and down, and at a time when the number of students goes down and the institutions get fewer students, it's not necessarily right and reasonable that they should do less research. That is why we are asking for further work to be done on this in the future. We also see the possibility of differentiating the research grant. Colleges and individual departments are very different; some have heavy environments full of universities and scientific colleges, while others are more focused on practical education. We have to be able to steer the research effort where we get the most back for it. We've all recorded the activity of the Academy of Fine Arts these days in relation to its economy. I expect more than I have been bombed by e-mails from the students, who have received enquiries from the school and from elsewhere. I just want to say very briefly that it has always been the Storting's assumption that the aggregation that was made should serve the schools and environments, not lose weight. I expect the Council of State to inform us about the current situation in the debate here today, so that we can get these signals quickly, and that it is possible to get feedback on some of the thoughts that the Council of State is making about the situation at this school. So to the proposal that is in the position of the Progress Party and the Right. I find it very difficult to understand why this proposal has been promoted at all. I have the impression that relatively powerful tools are being used here on an open door, because the Committee is well aware that improvements and simplifications should be made in the system, so why it has to be decided that the administrative procedures should be carefully assessed, I feel a little strange. Either it must be that one wants to suspect the work done in relation to the administration at the colleges, or then it is to enter an open door with dynamite, and I see little reason for that. I would ask the Progress Party and the Right to consider whether this proposal is really necessary as long as the Committee agrees that simplification and improvement of the systems must be carried out. This is not guaranteed to be the last round of the debate on the economy of the higher education sector, nor in the debate on the economy of the university sector. We're going to get a dimensioning message, we're going to get a research report, and we're going to get the annual budgets, so this is going to come back to many times. But I feel that the Storting and the Committee through this process have established some main lines of development in the future. I think it's going in the right direction, and I look forward to the rest of this debate and to the other things that we get, which also apply to a lot of the same area. I feel at least that we are now taking some steps in the right direction, to make everyday life better for our state colleges, and I think it's wise for us to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e221	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e224	I listened with great interest to the posts of the representative Norvoll, and have no objections to the main content of it. However, it was an opinion in the beginning where he described the characteristic of the communication and the matter we are dealing with, so that it is a good administrative, bureaucratic work, but the political work is absent. It might well be said that the problems we have encountered, and as the report illustrates, are related to the fact that during the last government and in Gudmund Hernes' time, the political work was very present, but it was not always the basic work that was good enough. That's why we're caught up in the paradoxical situation that what was one of the main arguments for the strong rehabilitation operation in the higher education sector, that is, that it should give administrative gains and lead to the use of more of the effort on the professional and less on the administrative, has not enabled. There's a lot of evidence that we've had the opposite effect in many places. That is why I am surprised that the representative Norvoll does not see the point of the proposal that has been included in the vote by the Progress Party and the Right. In particular, when the representative uses the current situation at the Academy of Fine Arts as an example of this, he should be well enough involved in the matter to see that one of the reasons why there has been a difficult budgetary situation is that the merger in the streamlined pattern has led to a significant increase in administrative expenditure to the distortion of professional, primary activity. I think that the example of over-measures shows that the proposal put forward by the Party of Progress and the Right is most timely and most topical.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e231	It happens from time to time, but it's just as surprising every time, that the representative Inge Wohnung goes up here and stands out as the strongest defender of this government. He obviously does that today, and I expect that the Council of State Lilletun is pleased that he gets such unreserved support for his work from such a marked personality in the Right Party. The representative Inge Wohnung has never been really concerned about the situation at the colleges, it's basically the universities that have been close to his heart, and I think they're still doing that. As a result, I am strengthened in the belief that at best this proposal has been promoted only to suspect the work done by the colleges, and that it is believed that the colleges are not really doing the job they are assigned to, that they only manage themselves in their entirety and do not prioritize professional development, research and education. I actually believe that the Council of State is going to follow up the comments that lie here that there is going to be a simplification and improvement of the system. I see no reason to use the kind of powerful tool that a proposal is, to open a door that is wide open, so I choose to continue to interpret the proposal so that it is just a question of suspecting the institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e239	I don't know if I'm going to appreciate the representative Norvoll's desire to examine hearts and kidneys. Personally, I think there are other parts of the body that are more important in the political change of words than exactly that. But when the representative Norvoll says that this proposal is at best a suspicion, then I almost have to ask him to answer what it is in the worst case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e247	Of course, I and the representative on the pay side can have a long discussion about which parts of the body are most important to use here in the hall, and if the line change continues further, it suggests that the feet may be the most important thing to get up and down from this pulpit. My point when I criticise the proposal is that this must be a proposal you promote to suspect the activity at the colleges. I personally believe that it is. I have faith in the activity they're doing and I believe that if there's too much administration, the Council of State will take it on board. The alternative to that is this proposal, which – as the representative of Inge Wohnung very often characterises proposals from other parties – is simply hesitated, it has nothing to do here, and it is a proposal completely ineffective, which only opens the door. In that case, it will be on the Right and the Advance Party's account, that's not something we're going to give in to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e254	The President will claim that the 'deaf' is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e257	Since the intentions behind the proposal in the setting have become a theme, I would like to highlight the point of that. As it has at least been thought by us – I also believe that I am speaking on behalf of the Progress Party for once, there should be no habit – there is no mistrust in this proposal. It's just as much a prayer to the Government to look at their own orders to the marbles. It is true that the marbles themselves have some administrative routines, but it is also a good part that is imposed in terms of reporting, in the form of a rather extensive system that the schools must follow, and that is what we are now asking the Government to look at to see if there are some things that can be done. So it's not in any way meant to be a distrust, but it's simply a prayer to help the schools make this a little bit easier, so that a greater part of the resources in the higher education sector can go to what resources in the higher education sector should go to, that's to professional development, education and research.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e262	It is a little strange that the small proposal from the Right and the Advance Party, as I mentioned in a statement, should receive such intense attention. That proposal is by no means the most important thing in this discussion we are in now. The most important thing is that the Committee is in fact grouped on some main lines ahead and on some main priorities for the higher education sector. That's what we're going to stress today, and I'm very happy about that. I record that the representative Løvik is considerably more constructive and less polemic than the representative Wage. There is nothing new, and it once again underlines that the rapporteur has done a very good and tidy job with regard to this matter. With this in mind that the proposal is more than the prayer to the Council of State for help, I expect that it can be answered by the Council of State itself. As the Council of State comes from a Christian party, I expect that prayer is something he has a great sense of, and it is not necessary for the Workers' Party to vote in favour of that kind of proposal in order for the Council of State to take note of a prayer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e271	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e274	It is with great pleasure that I have followed this line change, as this simple, small proposal that is formulated in the light of what is stated in the message on pages 13 and 14 arouses so great counter-representations. But that's really not what I was going to start with. This is a long delayed message. One can in large letters safely say that the message does not arouse the very large counter-representations of some parties, but it is nevertheless worth noting that despite the partly touching consensus that is sometimes demonstrated, the message embraces some fundamentally important questions. In the view of the Progress Party, this issue concerns financial management, issues relating to administration and not least quality assurance issues. We have had a reform of higher education that had some relatively clear objectives, for example. streamlining and rationalising administrative structures and procedures. The message describes fairly clearly that this objective has not been achieved. The construction of new administration units instead of simpler routines is pretty much what it all all comes down to. Therefore, at least the Progress Party feels at this point that it is absolutely necessary to give a small signal that we believe that the universities need some help to get this work going. Furthermore, the communication is clearly about the economy, which depends on different things, including: the notification describes as cost-driven factors. I'm going to go first into the big relative increase the colleges have had. In fact, they have had a nominal increase in the appropriations over the described period of more than 100 pst. Why, then, is the economy so tight? One of the reasons for this can be attributed to governmental colleges and universities to offer a significant number of students. A significant increase in the number of students is not the topic of discussion, nor is it why this has been necessary. But we can think of what we want about that matter. The Progress Party will again point out that the current funding system clearly demonstrates that it is not good enough. I find it appropriate to refer to what we have said repeatedly from the interlocutors, in proposals and in comments on how a funding system can be made effective and incorporate certain quality assurance factors. In addition, it is necessary to make reference to the fact that the item of equipment for all universities, which has been intended to be used for equipment which must be under the heading of investment, has been mainly used for IT, which must be said to be consumption material and hardly equipment under investment accounting rules. The use of the post for damaged equipment, such as: a laser technology welding machine at NTNU, a priority made by the university itself on the basis of its own assessment, can be considered by a political party to be of concern. Furthermore, the reporting procedures applied from higher education to other control areas do not work, as the reported material is very closely comparable and therefore does not produce any clear results. This means that the procedures must be thoroughly reviewed. With this, I would like to address the proposal that has been made in the vote by the Progress Party and the Right. The President: Ursula Evje has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e299	In the implementation of the reform of higher education, the Stortinget quickly received signals that several higher education institutions were experiencing major economic difficulties in their operation. Several related this to the reform itself, but also to the fact that this happened at a time when the numbers of students increased. That was the reason why the Christian People's Party supported the decision of the Stortinget in November 1996 to review the economy in the higher education sector. St.meld. No 26 for 1998-99 is very technical in its review, and there has been disagreement between the Cost Calculation Committee and the higher education sector on both criteria and conclusions. I therefore think it has been somewhat difficult to deal with this debate when the premiscuous basis seems to be so different. However, the important political conclusion in the Communication is the recognition that the higher education sector has had a tighter budgetary situation. For the period 1992-97, this represents 60 million. kr, if we stick to the cost per. student. This recognition considered the Cost Calculation Committee to be ‘reasonably stable’, a comment that is much of a political assessment, in my opinion. The important thing is that the Stortinget also now recognizes this development, and the Christian People's Party will be involved in the assessments as we continue to work on the future of the higher education sector. In a reply, the representative Rikvam argued that the majority did not draw any conclusion from this background. I disagree. When it comes to the overall reform of higher education, it has to be evaluated, and we will later have the opportunity to come back to a discussion of it. Then I think maybe one will see that the cost picture in the higher education sector also has some other factors than just purely administrative procedures and costs. Further work on identifying and quantifying cost-driven factors is important in order to move forward. I think both the colleges and the department are worth agreeing on the way to calculate these factors – otherwise we will have a desert-free debate that many bureaucrats spend too much time on. I am satisfied with the Ministry's plans for further analysis and monitoring and hope that this process can lead to improvements, simplifications and coordination of reporting systems, so that no longer spends more time on reporting and documentation. In my opinion, the proposal in the position of the Advance Party and the Right that goes on these things – as a joint committee says this in a comment – is unnecessary to adopt. There will be differences in the economy between universities. Among other things, several colleges have decentralised studies and a decentralised structure in their places of study. The Christian People's Party does not consider it desirable to centralize the university structure today. There will be a need to reach more and more population groups with relevant study services. That is why colleges also need to have a financial framework that allows them to provide student services decentralised, and I fully agree with the representative Norvoll said in his statement. During the work on this matter, we have been made aware of several issues relating to the higher education economy. The Committee did not wish to address individual issues but also focused on the general principles set out in the Communication. One thing that has, however, engaged me is the situation of the Hochskulen in Sogn and Fjordane and the possibilities of maintaining Sandane as a place of study. I am pleased that the Council of State, in a letter to the Christian People's Party, has confirmed that he presupposes that a transfer of protective care training from Sandane is compensated for by other study activities of an equivalent extent. The Christian People's Party still wants to keep Sandane as a place of study, and I expect the Hochskul in Sogn and Fjordane themselves to want this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e320	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e323	To this end, with cost-driven factors that do not just go on administrative procedures and structures: Yes, of course, the representative Lyngstad is right in it. A not insignificant part is the cost of increased rents on the basis of the higher education institutions’ own desire to operate more efficient, modern and time-consuming facilities. However, when you want to modernise the premises you use, it is not clear that this will lead to increased costs per person. month — in the form of increased rents? And why aren't you able to take a monthly increase in cost per person? m2? I think there is a bit of sutring in this. In the case of decentralised education, it is also clearly a cost-driven factor, but it does not have to be. In fact, we don't have to have a school structure in Norway on every nose. We can run an extensive decentralised education without building many premises, without establishing many teachers and without driving research and development in the true sense of the word and without funding, but still get results. I want the representative Lyngstad to say something more about these things.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e330	It is probably true that renting is such an expense factor as it is, but it is related to area needs, student numbers, employee employment, etc., so that one cannot just say that these costs are irrelevant here. We all want to have good employment in our colleges, and then it's clear that these elements are also involved in this. In the case of decentralised education, it is right that it is not intended to have a higher education course in each municipality in the country. I don't think we deserve that either, because the trade unions also need strength. But with new technology, etc. I think there are opportunities for professional quality and to reach large population groups. I don't see it as a goal to centralize the structure that is already established. I think it's a desire in many regions to get in touch with environments of competence. We know that there is a close link between business development and education, and therefore it is important that these components are seen in the context. I therefore believe that the higher education systems can help ensure, and that is actually proven, the economic development and the population base of the regions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e338	Arne Lyngstad mentioned a special college in Sogn and Fjordane. I understood the article so that he spoke on a general basis when he took this up. He did not want to interfere in the debate on the location of particular study facilities, but this was a statement in relation to this with decentralised education services, including in Sogn and Fjordane. I would like him to confirm that what he said was that he was concerned that the Højskulen in Sogn and Fjordane should also have a decentralised education offer, and that this was not a contribution to a debate on concrete training offers at this special school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e345	It is true that the debate in Sogn and Fjordane is largely linked to a specific matter of protection training in Sandane. What has been my concern — and as it has also been important to find out — is that it must be right to continue to offer a higher education offer in Sandane. I think it's important to hold on to the fact that Sandane should be a place of study for the Högskulen in Sogn and Fjordane. I have recorded that in Stortinget there is great care when it comes to entering into concrete assessments of local matters – I have the impression that Storting’s willingness to go into such matters varies slightly, depending on the types of issues involved. I had seen it as an advantage even if the High School in Sogn and Fjordane had shown greater willingness to maintain Sandane as a place of study than it seems to be the college board there does. But it's the Board's own assessments that underlie.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e352	I noticed, like the representative Rolf Reikvam, with some wonder that the representative Arne Lyngstad moved towards a job opening in a very concrete localization debate in connection with one of the country's colleges. There has been full agreement in the Committee that this communication is not a natural reason for entering into that type of debate, because we know that the number of such possible localisation debates in this country is legio. But since the representative Arne Lyngstad presented this as a particular Christian People's Party issue, it is obvious to ask him if he shares my opinion, that it is positive that the Council of State has this time resisted the pressure to overrun a university board and to reverse decisions taken by the Board of Higher Education in accordance with the authority and responsibility of the Board of Higher Education. I have previously mentioned this as a general problem from this chair because we have had several cases where, from the top of the political system, interference has been made in the jurisdiction of the higher education institutions in one, at my discretion, unfortunate way. Therefore, I would like to ask the representative Arne Lyngstad to confirm that he shares my opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e359	What is important, and as the Council of State has also confirmed in its letter, is that he wants to maintain Sandane as a place of study under the assumption, in relation to the Højskulen in Sogn and Fjordane, that the loss of a training offer should be compensated for by other study activities of similar size. I expect this to be a point of view that the representative Inge Wohnning also has a great sense of, because I believe that the representative Wohnning also has no interest in putting Sandane down as a place of study. I therefore believe that the attitude shown and that of the Council of State here is correct. I think the grip that has been taken – the fact that you have pointed out a desire to keep Sandane as a place of study – is right in this context. However, I would like to make that reservation, as we have state colleges, that this can be the subject of political assessments if one wants it to be organised for it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e366	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e369	The economy of the state higher education sector has been a hot topic for many years. As you can see, we are at a milestone today, although there are no concrete budget sums either in the report or in the vote. The rapporteur, Petter Løvik, has done a good job as rapporteur of the case and now at the presentation of the suspension, which shows that one is very united, with the exception of the Progress Party. I will therefore in my post be something more general and not go into detail. The centre party is clear enough to say that the party in its time was among the champions of the district colleges, now called state colleges. The centre lots grouped together on the following wording of the Adultås Declaration: ‘Large student coal and increased red tape in higher education have led to a strenuous economy in several institutions, especially at higher education institutions. This situation makes it difficult for more than one university to meet the objective of providing research-based education and maintaining a good level of practical training. A central government will improve the economy of higher education institutions and increase the capacity of study places in the fields of medicine, health and care education, teacher/pre-school teacher training, police and IT professions.’ I am pleased to note that many of these objectives have been achieved. However, we are aware that there is a tight economic environment in many schools, as demonstrated outside the Stortinget yesterday. The Committee is aware that similar schools elsewhere in the country have the same problem, for example: The high school film, something we have to get back to in budgetary terms. State colleges have and have had a major impact on the study propensity of district youth, while providing incentives for business development in general and in districts in particular. Colleges have also developed many good decentralised study services that are invaluable for giving people an offer where they live. In particular, this is important for women who have not had the chance of higher education in the past. Decentralised study arrangements should be funded, as indicated in the call for proposals. Universities deserve tribute for the efforts they have made in the merger process and the increase in the number of students in recent years. The majority of the committee says in the setting that the colleges have had their economy weakened. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the economy if we are to ensure the quality of study provision. It is a prerequisite for students to apply to these schools and become good ambassadors for new recruitment. Even more important is that students receive the education and competence that society needs. The competence community cannot afford to lose these resources. The Ministry states in the notice that it is difficult to quantify the cost-driven factors, while the Swedish Higher Education Council has made calculations for a number of different factors. The Committee stresses that it is unfortunate that stakeholders have different perceptions of reality in this area and expects the ministry to come up with uniform factors. There is an overall committee asking to be briefed on the criteria used in the budget allocation for the next year’s budget. Greater transparency is important in this area, as many have suggested. I am particularly pleased that the number of committees believes it must be a separate component for expenditure on the practice of vocational training which has this as an integral part of the study. It is a subject that has been repeated by the relevant educational institutions over a long period of time. This position also highlights the importance of simplification and coordination of the reporting system, so that not even more resources need to be used for so-called paperwork, but rather for educational and development work in general. It is important to do something concrete in this area as soon as possible, and schools should be encouraged to make amendments themselves. There has been a good development in research and development activities at colleges, but there are differences based on the tradition and culture of each institution. It is therefore appropriate to include R & D as a criterion for the allocation of funds hereafter. The reform of competence will call for new demands on state colleges. For the Central Party, it is important that schools are able to meet these challenges. As I know the institutions, I'm sure these will compete with other education providers. However, flexibility and adaptability are important characteristics for meeting the changing needs of society. Otherwise, I will once again commend the progress of the adjustment process, as the representative Norvoll also said in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e402	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e405	I agree in every way with the post that the representative Tingelstad had. But I want to go back a little bit to the word exchange that was in place on the basis of the statements by the representative Lyngstad. There is no disagreement in the Committee that higher education and education should continue in Sandane. But of what came out from Arne Lyngstad's side, it might suggest that the government parties have meant something else, unlike the Council of State. In fact, the Council of State has followed the position of the Governing Board in this matter, and so far there has been agreement within the Committee that it is the individual Governing Boards that must govern. At the same time, it has also been agreed that when part of the education goes to Sogndal, Sandane will not lose anything. This is how everyone has understood the Council of State, and therefore there was no reason to address this matter. But I want to ask for another comment from the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e412	It was interesting that I got this line. I saw the representative Grete Knudsen asking for a line instead, but then everything was probably exhausted. But I'd like to answer this. I am aware that there is a great deal of disagreement also within the individual party groups in that region, and as I have assessed this matter, I have found it best not to express any opinion here. And we've done that in different contexts, even when we've been contacted by the region. I think it is wise for us to have close contact with the environments around the different regions, but at the same time we must be aware that this is the responsibility of the individual regions and governments. Having said that, I would agree that the state colleges have been given that authority from Stortinget. But in some cases, the overall relationship that also has to count, and that's what we're familiar with, has happened in earlier times as well. But, as I said, I did not find any reason to go into this problem that is mentioned here. Then we would have come to terms with the dimensions, and we have our own, so-called regions that we represent, which are also struggling with problems. So it was most correct that we now put forward a position on a principle basis, and that we come back to these matters on other occasions. But I repeat: it is the governments that are responsible for the study offerings and their distribution, and then politicians in those regions are affected in those environments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e417	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e420	I feel the need to comment initially on the replacement of a reply on the colleges in Sogn and Fjordane. There are doubts about what different parties think about decentralised higher education services. There is clearly agreement, and in the setting we all say, all except for the Progress Party – they say so too, but have a different reason – that decentralised higher education should be given priority. This also applies to Sogn and Fjordane. We therefore agree with the decision made by the board of directors of the Högskulen in Sogn and Fjordane, that they should maintain a training offer on Sandane. It fits well with what a unanimous committee says, so I have a hard time seeing that this would in some way create some problems, and that one would make a debate out of it. The development of Sandane as a place of education, we agree, and what we think is consistent with what the committee here says about decentralised education. Then go to the message. The notification is largely a technical review of the economic situation in the higher education sector. It is a descriptive message, and there is an answer to what Storting has asked for in the past. The Ministry and the Cost Calculation Committee use the cost per person. student as a comparison factor. We believe that this is not a good method. It becomes too simple, and it substantiates some important factors, which the ministry itself has in its assessments of some cost-driven factors. The Ministry itself says that there are cost-driven factors that are difficult to quantify. On the other hand, the Higher Education Council has made some calculations for a number of different factors, and they have tried to estimate the costs of these factors. I think it's important – it was something I had in my reply to Petter Løvik – that when we asked for and got this message, we were able to respond with some reasonable concrete answers, and I feel that the majority of the committee does not. We have tried to take seriously the calculations of the Swedish Higher Education Council and the Ministry. We have tried to go into this and tried to say something about how much under-budgeting has been in this period. This is intended to provide a response to the various actors, to the different institutions, to the departments and the Stortinget. They see it that way and that way, and we want to give a description of the reality that we could agree on. The rest of the committee didn't want to do that, and I'm sorry. I think that, as I said, would have simplified further work on the economy in the higher education sector, and that would also have simplified the work on the budget. I am pleased that the Committee is aware that priority should be given to research, that higher education should use more resources and give priority to research stronger than they have done in the past. In the university sector, we have a fifty-fifty distribution, 50 pst. research and 50 pst. education. I probably wish we could have had some of those thumb rules in the higher education sector as well. I think that would have helped a lot to speed up some processes. I would probably also like us to go a little further and take on the role of higher education in relation to the reform of competences. It is clear that we will succeed in the reform of competences, with an education offer for adults in the years to come, the higher education sector will be a very central player, and we should dare say something more about it. So I'd like to take up the current situation, which is going to the economy within the Academy of Fine Arts in Oslo. I have considered a proposal, but I have come to the conclusion that I would like to ask questions to the Council of State. There is a need for the Stortinget to be properly briefed, and my question to the Council of State is, Will he give us a proper and thorough account of the economic situation in the revised national budget? I'm not taking a position on the millions, but I'm just asking for a proper assessment of the financial situation. And another question: can the Council of State guarantee, or at least assure us, that there will not be fewer students at the Academy of Fine Arts at the end of the year than what is planned?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e437	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e440	I have two questions that I would like to ask the representative of Reikvam to come up with his view. Both questions relate to the lack of flexibility in the structure of higher education as it is today, especially in terms of adapting size, number and competence to staff. The second factor relates to the leadership of the KUF in view of the size and organisation of the administration of the institutions in the establishment of the new higher education institutions in 1994. I want to draw your attention to the fact that the Progress Party two years ago presented proposals that addressed precisely these things, but I can't see that anyone else has managed to catch up that as this room changes the structure of offers both at universities and colleges in terms of line selection etc., so must the personal size, competence and number follow. In addition, if he is given time to do so, I want him to say something about the relatively high level of competence that has been at the colleges, whether it will have an impact on budgets in the coming period. Perhaps he can assess whether the acquired competence is the competence that the majority of this will really have been out to achieve in terms of line selection, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e449	The notification shows that there has been a development and that colleges have increased their competence in recent years. There are more with professorship, amanuensis and lecturership skills, and fewer with traditional higher education skills. There has been a good and proper development. There is an increased research competence at colleges, and that is a condition for us to succeed in increasing research and a little more research-based education at colleges as well. Just when it comes to that piece, I feel like it's been a development, a good development, and we're on our way. So to this with flexibility. We have wanted greater flexibility for colleges in developing education provision. I have mentioned this in a question to the Council of State earlier, and have been confirmed that he too wants the same thing. But it's a little bit unclear how far we're going to go about that freedom, because we need to see this country in a certain context. So there's probably a limit to how much freedom they should have. However, the fact that individual colleges should have greater freedom to develop educational provision is clearly – much greater freedom. It is also essential if state universities are to be able to compete for training provision, in particular linked to the reform of competences. The greater the freedom to develop, to offer the various educational services – we want that. So to the purely administrative, the increased costs you've had. I see that in the construction phase we've been in, it has also been necessary to build an administration. But it is clear that there is a need to look at cost developments to see if one can streamline that part of the business.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e458	A few comments to the representative, Mr Rikvam. This was referred to as 'expenditure per year'. Student», and it is clear that there is no perfect goal for real costs. But we all want to have a better reporting system and a better system to establish the real contexts, but then we have to be careful not to create a reporting bureaucracy that allows an even greater part of the time spent on polls to go with just reporting and reporting. There is at least no primary task for these. There needs to be better reporting, not more, and then there is simplification and coordination that I think is the way to go. When it comes to the fact that the message is a little concrete, as the representative Reikvam claimed, it is possible that one could have progressed faster, but I have as my principle that it is better with small steps than with large slips. Based on that principle, I thought we've gotten quite far away with concrete leadership from the department of this message. We note the weakening when it comes to crowns. We're going to come back to this in the budget. We will have developed indicators that capture these cost contexts, we will have improvements in the reporting by simplification and coordination, simpler management systems, open criteria, clear messages of stronger focus on decentralised education, so that this in no way has to go beyond the quality of this. We want to stimulate the strong shift facing the high-spheric sector over the years, both because of the reform of continuing education and training and because the world, as the representative of the SV will also see later, is moving forward. We want to invest more in research and development, and we have said quite clearly that we want to cover the additional costs that are at the point of practice in some professional disciplines. So we're actually saying a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e467	There's no doubt that we're saying a good deal. SV is involved in most of the majority comments, so that's not what's really the discussion. The discussion concerns whether one is able to draw the conclusion that one should have drawn in a few areas, especially in one area, namely the cost-driven factors, and given some clear messages back to the Council of State that the Storting perceives it this way, interprets it, sees reality in a certain way, and gives it a signal to the Council of State when preparing the budget for the year 2000. It had been something to bring with him from Stortinget, that the Storting had described the reality to him, which he could then bring with him and present to the Ministry of Finance. I thought it might have been one of the points of such a message, namely that we're going to agree on a reality – as far as possible. We had the opportunity to do that here, and it would have simplified the work further. It would also have been an important signal to give out to colleges, because our colleges had some expectations for this big message and what the Stortinge was going to be able to conclude with. We have common conclusions in many areas, but in one important area we unfortunately have not succeeded in drawing the conclusion we should have made. So, for reporting systems. I clearly agree with the representative Petter Løvik that we must not now form a comprehensive bureaucracy that will report back to us. But that's not what I'm looking for, either. When I’m critical of such a simplified cost factor as ‘expense per. Student’, because it does not provide the comprehensive information it should provide. If you are going to carry out an analysis over time, it is important that the indicators you use are consistent with your desire to be illuminated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e474	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e477	I am pleased that the committee is standing together on most of the comments in this vote. It testifies to a common attitude towards higher education and higher education in particular. The notification shows that the higher education economy has deteriorated in recent years, although there has been an increase in appropriations. It may seem that the coordination of higher education institutions has not yet had a cost-saving effect, but on the contrary. In recent times, there is a special situation at the art colleges in Oslo that have been illuminated in the media. The history of this merger is special. When this political decision was made, it was against the school’s own view. Their assessments were that there would not necessarily be good synergies of such aggregation. Schools have so different traditions and forms of education that it is difficult to see how they can be fully integrated. Arts education is special, and they should be. We have three departments in stage art, theatre college, ballet college and opera college, which are unique in Norway. It is not obvious what these schools have in common with the Academy of Arts and Education in the field of crafts. As many have been involved in the debate earlier today, this merger has led to high costs for a central administration, which has gone at the expense of education. I believe that the time has not elapsed from a reassessment of this aggregation. I would encourage the Council of State to re-examine this issue. I am pleased that the Committee agrees that there will be greater transparency on the criteria used for the budget allocation at the various higher education institutions. This helps to ensure an open process for future budgets, which, hopefully, can be elucidating for individual colleges. It is also important that the Ministry in its further work on monitoring and analysing the situation at higher education places emphasis on simplifying the reporting and governance procedures for the administrative work of higher education institutions and does not lead to even more of the resources going to administration at the expense of education and research. I take it as a matter of course that the government's commitment to a simpler Norway will also cover the higher education sector. High schools have a very important role to play in ensuring that people across the country are given the competence of individual demand and society needs. It is therefore important that universities have the freedom and resources they need to develop good and regionally adapted services. Higher education institutions must be prepared for continuous conversion and the Ministry's task is to stimulate flexibility and quality in the training provided. It will also be important in the future to ensure good research environments at higher education institutions and associated institutions. One uses the term 'global knowledge economy' to describe the reality we're going to meet in the future. Norway’s advantage in a world where knowledge is more important than ever for its economy is that we already have a well-developed, decentralised education system, where universities play an important role. This is the advantage we have to build on as we develop the education system for the next century.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e500	In working on the big news, I have focused on producing the different visions that have emerged during the hearing, and giving a broad and nuanced presentation of the economic development of the sector. The Storting Message is a technical review of the financial situation of the state higher education institutions, as the Stortinget requested. This message must be seen in conjunction with other contacts. the evaluation of the HS reform, the research message, the dimensioning message and the follow-up to the work of the Mjøs selection. I have underlined in this message that a holistic analysis of the business sector in the university and higher education sectors – the uh sector – has far more relationships than the purely economic ones. The quality aspect is very important in relation to the teaching and research carried out by the institutions. An analysis of economic circumstances should therefore include the quality aspect. However, in the context of the big business message, it has been difficult to specify the quality of the right-hand training with good quality indicators. This comes mainly from incomplete data over a long period of time. Nor has efficiency and productivity in the sector been assessed in the Storing Communication. This is also due to a lack of data over a longer period of time. I would like to add that work in the high school sector is now under way with a view to carrying out such an analysis during 1999. The analysis will be carried out in close cooperation with the high-spherical sector. So some comments about the committee setting. That's especially three points I want to comment on. One point relates to the criteria for budgetary allocation, where the Committee stresses the importance of open criteria, etc. in order to enable the pillars to make a long-term and targeted adjustment to their budgeting. The Ministry has now started work on the 2000 budget, in which the high-level sector will be involved in redeployment. I am laying down, among other things. until there is a discussion/dialogue on this work with the Norwegian Higher Education Council. The second point relates to the reporting requirements in the uh sector. I have notified in the message that I would like to undertake a more thorough analysis of the different economic conditions in the uh-sector. Before such analyses can be carried out, the data base must be wider and at a more detailed level than the information previously reported. The Ministry is working to improve the data base in the uh-sector. The right-wing education database is an important tool in this work. In that setting, the Committee asked the Ministry to assess whether the reporting of data by institutions could be facilitated. To this end, I would like to say that the Department is working continuously to make the reporting work easy and to draw up reports that are consistent with reports that institutions can draw from economic and administrative systems that are now being introduced into the uh-sector. However, work on the Storing Communication has shown that there is a need for a broader data base than we have today, in order to make good analysis of developments in the sector. An increase in the exemption of institutions and delegation of powers will also require a broader data base to take care of the ministry’s governance, as set out below. new State Financial Regulation. It is therefore necessary to consider the different needs of an assessment of the scope of data reporting. But I want to confirm that the simplification work that the Government in general is doing, of course, also applies to the high-spherical sector. The third point in the committee setting I would like to comment on is decentralised education, where the majority in the committee pointed out the importance of a stronger focus on decentralised right-hand education. I would like to point out that in recent years, a monthly part of the newly established study places in the field of health, teacher training and IT education have been created as decentralised studies. In addition, the Ministry is in favour of applications from the universities to establish decentralised studies where there is a regional need for this. In 1999, the Stortinget has raised 8 million. kr to cover additional costs of decentralised study provision. In addition, 4 million is allowed. kr above the budget of the SHD to cover the additional costs of decentralised nursing training. I'm glad that someone now has a great deal of attitude from the committee – and I join in the praise of the work done in the committee – that describes the pervasiveness. In the long run, it also coincides with the view of the higher spheres. I hope then that the improvements that the Committee has announced that they will, and that are in line with what I want, can lead to a future that is simpler and more transparent. When it comes to the question asked by the representative, I ask to be drawn on a three-minute post. Then I'm going to clarify it, because it's kind of outside the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e523	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e526	There is a great deal of agreement on this communication, which is probably very technical. However, the Committee also has a comment asking for information on the criteria underlying the allocation and that it should be in the context of the State budget for next year. The Committee has been set up not least for the purpose of the School of Fine Arts. The size has adopted a co-organization, assuming that it would benefit both the quality and the status of the school and not lead to a downgrading of the school. I would like to ask the Council of State if he will inform the Storting in good time before the new school year with a view to improving the situation of the Academy of Fine Arts, because I have the impression that the criteria for allocation are very historical. When the Academy of Fine Arts is to be co-organised and must establish itself with departments that others also have, they may need to spend much more time and energy on, among other things. administration and feedback, which they have never used. This may well have been taken into account, with the money that was given to the co-organization itself, to a small extent. So I think it's important that we here today get a message from the Council of State about when the Storting will be informed about this school battle.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e531	The 1997 merger led the budget line of the former institutions to a large extent to the same level at the Oslo Academy of Fine Arts. In addition, there has been an increase in the framework for compensating for the additional expenditure of the new Joint Administrative Board, as noted above. Its management of the State budget for 1997. In addition, the art ball in Oslo has been given additional permissions to cover costs associated with, among other things. new settings, new administrative systems and increased rental costs. I also point out that the Oslo Academy of Fine Arts is not a framework for the inclusion of study places that have been found in the uh-sector in 1998 and 1999. For the period 1997-1999, for the Kunsthögskulen in Oslo, it has been a nominal increase in the budget frame of about 11 p.m. The ministry is largely involved in the framework budgeting of the institutions in the uh sector. This means that institutions have considerable freedom to allocate the budget framework to departments according to their priorities and seniority. The reasons for the difficult budgetary situation include: that the Oslo art ball in 1998 had a monthly budget exceedance. An additional consumption of one year generally implies that the institution must reduce its consumption next year. When it comes to the question asked by representatives Grete Knudsen and – earlier – Reikvam, if I want to give a briefing to Stortinget, it is clear that I am doing so based on the situation that has arisen. The background is what I said, but at the same time it can't go beyond getting a satisfactory art education. We're going to have a governance dialogue in the ministry on 26 April and are set to work for good solutions, while at the same time we have to treat the different pillars fairly fairly fairly in relation to each other. I will report back to Stortinget after this wish, so that it can be dealt with in conjunction with the revised national budget. Whether the timeout is given in the proposition itself or in a plugin, we have to come back a little after the time perspective, but so that it can be dealt with in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e543	I want to link some thoughts and a question to what the Council of State said in its statement, which was about the redistribution of funds between the universities. As far as I understand the big message, this city has many problems, because a real increase in e.g. has been achieved. rent costs, in the case of new buildings, modernisation, increase in land, etc., and this binds the actual expenditure of each higher education institution. At the same time, there has been a significant increase in staff competence in general. As a result, increased compensation of employees is combined with poor flexibility in employment, etc. And if the Council of State is then going to start redeploying without adding any significant more resources or not going into the dimensioning message and strangling the dimensioning of the individual subject, then I can't help but understand that he's really out in a professionally qualitative manner, especially when you see how the whole message is structured. The cost calculation committee has carried out an assessment where the Swedish Higher Education Council disagrees on a number of important points, and where the department stays in the middle and says, almost as I heard before today, good Christmas and good new year. How has the Council of State intended to make this redistribution?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e548	When it comes to the inconvenience that lies between the High School Council's hearing response and the Cost Calculation Selection, I have, for my part, done something as unusual as sending the material in a new round to the Cost Calculation Selection, and then carried out analyses on the basis of it again. I'm going to say that there's been a pretty thorough job trying to find solutions that one might agree on. When you read the letter from the High School Council to the message, it is much perceived as very positive, but there are places where we recognize that it is difficult to make a final calculation. They've done experiments in the High School Council, and there'll be a need to go further rounds of new data before we can finalize it, because we can't build on the one party here, we actually have to have a more professional basis than that. But I am glad that the High School Council perceives that we have gone into this very much and actually described it quite precisely, as they themselves desired. When it comes to the main question of Ursula's representative, and how to redistribute the funds, there's always going to be a combination of redistribution and possibly new means, but there's a very large amount of historical evidence of the location of the individual aisles. The previous government began a work where one every year would try to build up the historical differences of corresponding education. That work I carried on last year, and that I want to go on, because it can't be so that it's kind of historical foundations and not primarily an analysis of what kind of education you need, which is decisive. It actually has to be fairer. That's what we're doing, and I think we need to find a good criterion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e557	It could seem that the Council of State was not entirely unprepared for the question asked by the chairman of the committee. I must express my joy at the answer, that the Council of State has confirmed with it that he has understood the acute problems you face at the Academy of Fine Arts, and that he will come back with a solution to it. But I could imagine in the extension of it also to ask the Council of State perhaps to reflect a little bit on whether this particular situation reflects, as I was in the line shift with the representative Norvoll earlier in this debate, that we have gone further than well is in the direction of streamlining the governance of absolutely all colleges, and that there may be reason to see whether there is no need to open up any greater flexibility and any greater variation in the organisational pattern than we have suggested, because it seems to me that the course that has led to this crisis situation, points out that there may be colleges that are so peculiar both in their professional and organisational structure that it really fits very badly with the form that the law has trodden down the entire high school sector. Does the Council agree that there may be grounds for considering this issue for further consideration?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e564	First of all, I want to confirm that there was a correct observation of the representative's salary, that I wasn't completely unbidden about the question from the leader. What was the situation, was that there were five of the very small haystacks and quite clearly part of the administrations -- we also saw that from a few examples -- that were not strong enough, and it had some unfortunate sides. It was crazy, for example. Not the theater highlight, which is the one that has been most prominent in the last days. What was the idea here was that a merger would give you a stronger administration, and that one in a way, when you got a common building, would also be able to gain professionally from a more liberal economy when you got together. Of course, the situation we have now is unfortunate, primarily for the students. I noticed what the representative Fladmark said, and I also noticed the question from Wage. I am not bid to say that the solution will be to reverse the decision that we have made. But we're forced to do a thorough analysis in the dialogue we have with the marble now, about what it is that has led us to where we are today, because it's not a real decline in the permissions, it's added extra to the administrative, and yet one comes into this situation. Then it's clear that it's not just saying that we won't analyze. I'm going to have a certain audacity in relation to this. I still mean that five was too much, and that a structural change was necessary. But we still have a job to do, and we're going to try to say a little bit more about what we're going back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e575	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e580	This debate is about the economy of the state higher education sector, and an essential element here is to make effective use of the professional staff of higher education institutions. Then I think it's natural not only to look at this sector, but also to look at high school and compare the obligation to teach at high school and at our colleges. At our colleges it is significantly smaller, and it is probably because of the premise that research and administrative activities should be carried out. Now I've seen the big message, and at the bottom of page 59, it says that the Cost Calculation Committee ‘shows that the mixed colleges average use 20 pst for FAFA work, while the professional colleges use about 10 pst of the working time of this part of the establishment’. And then in a footnote, it says what this mysterious FAFA is all about. It says: ‘Research and other professional activities’ — what now ‘other professional activities’ might be. I would think that in high school too, lecturers will be engaged in ‘other professional activities’, and especially after Reform 94, a number of new administrative tasks have been assigned. What I really want to ask and want an answer from the Council of State is: Is it not natural to discuss the higher education sector, to look at the situation in high school and ask yourself if there is any reason to treat the professional staff in a substantially different way? I would also say that if the objective is to further decentralize the environment, the prerequisites for carrying out research in the normal sense will become ever smaller. I have also noticed the heading on page 59 under 3.4, where it says: «Research and development in the higher education sector». So it's kind of joined up in a strange way. Development is also likely to be carried out as a teacher in high school. And it also says here that there has been no assessment of the outcome of this FAFA work. ‘This is due to... defective supporting material.’ Here I think the Council of State has a big task in terms of increasing the efficiency of the professional staff.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e600	First, one line to the last speaker, Fridtjof Frank Gundersen: It's clear that continuing schools and colleges and universities have a lot to do with each other and should be seen in context. But there are very many in the high school system who have a professional competence that is clearly in line with the representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersens in his civil life. It would be totally unthinkable if they didn't add their marbles to research in a different way than the general one in the secondary school. But we'll see this in context several places. As I have pointed out earlier, we come back to a lot of this in relation to the Mjøs selection and the research message, but also in the further development of competence reform and real competence. There's a lot of things we have to try to see in context. I answered the first part of the question to the representative of Reikvam. When it comes to student admission, it's my intention to do what the plans are doing. It would be totally wrong if we were to have a smaller student record in these schools. Our analysis is that the level needed, and it's our intention that it should be that way. So to the proposal from the Progress Party and the Right. It is a central discussion of the merger that led to a continuation of the administration of the individual departments and to an additional central administration. I have just received an evaluation — it is not finally printed — carried out by NIFU. They've also gone through this part. A high school in the South Commons has already transformed a part of the administration they started with after the reform, and has reduced it again. I thought the question was relevant, and I can assure the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party that I am in the process of looking at that part. But once again, in fact, it's the university board itself that's the chief in charge of making suggestions. We would like to carry out a thorough analysis based on the evaluation we have received and other material. I am prepared to follow up on the proposal. Maybe it's enough for these two games, but they need to think about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e613	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2724]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e629	Researcher Geir Hochsnes has shown in a research report that the teachers have been paid losses in the period 1975-1996. He has looked at the relative wage development of different groups of teachers. The conclusions of the report are presented in Today's Business on Monday this week. An analysis by the Technical Calculation Committee, which makes pre-arrangement calculations, shows that from 1990 until now, the teacher groups have had a wage trend that has been significantly weaker than the other groups have had. For example, the calculations show that teachers have had an average annual salary growth of 3.4 pst. This is the lowest for all the groups involved in this analysis, and there are quite a few groups involved in this analysis that the Calculations Committee has done. Basically, this isn't our problem. This is primarily a matter for the teacher organisations. Nevertheless, this is becoming a problem for us, because the recruitment of the teaching profession fails. We know that the proportion of teachers without approved education is increasing in both Oslo and Akershus, i.e. the most central strata of the country. This is a new phenomenon -- this is something we've seen in recent years. The proportion of non-accredited teachers – now it may be that there is a variation in their lack of formal education – is now almost 10 pst in Oslo. In the Akershus municipalities, the proportion is about 8 pst. This is alarming. The scan for teacher training has fallen. Still, there are enough applicants for the places we have, but it's a serious signal when the proportion goes down as it's done in the last few years. At the recording last year, in 1998, there were 4,500 primary applicants for general teacher education, and only 2,800 applicants for pre-school teacher training. This is a halve over a three-year period. We have approx. 3,000 places, so we might be filling up the places we have. But when the search goes down so dramatically, it's a signal that we have to take seriously. The situation is the same for the university's practical education. This summer, 173 students started practical education at the University of Oslo. I stress that it is Oslo that we have now checked. So it's 173 who take that education, and it's an education that's targeted at the teaching profession. In the real world, there's a dramatic decline. There are 13 candidates who have mathematics, who are currently taking practical education. We know from experience that many of them don't go into school. Some of them choose other occupations, despite having taken practical education. The trend is clear both in terms of general education and in terms of practical education at our universities: fewer opt for education targeted at the education sector. At the time of inception in 1998, we were not able to fill the pre-school training places. Some of the places intended for pre-school teacher training were converted into general teacher training. That in itself was good enough, but it shows that we are now balancing on the frontier in terms of the ability to fill up the places we have, and this is, as I said, a whole new situation. I assume there is a broad consensus on this description. These are the actual numbers. There is no need to ask questions either about wage developments, about what is going on in the search for teacher education — general teacher education — or about the proportion that chooses practical educational education at the university. These are the actual numbers that we have to relate to. We also know that it ends approximately every year. 2,500 teachers. It's a number that's been reasonably stable in recent years. It's people who go out of retirement, early retirement, etc. That's about. 2500 who leave school for that reason. We have to, when we have these actual numbers, reflect a little bit around the reason for this. What is the result of this development? What is the reason why fewer people want to be teachers? What is the reason that a larger share eventually also ends before they reach the retirement age? As politicians, we need to reflect around, because we can get into a situation where we can't help meeting the need for qualified teachers. We're already there, but the situation can be more acute than it is. I don't think we can get away with the fact that the salary level is an important factor in making access to teachers worse. Various studies have been conducted both in England and at home, both theoretical studies and empirical studies, which show that there is a clear link between pay, relative pay, and access to teachers, as well as departure, those who choose to quit. This is our problem. It's us, it's the state that has the negotiating responsibility for the teacher groups, and we can do something about this if we want to. It's in our hands, it's in the department's hands. It is in Stortinget's hands to give a signal to the department that this is so serious that we have to do something about it. We don't have that many possibilities, but we have some. If we recognize and agree that pay is important as a recruiter, we have some opportunities, and we have first of all the pay statements, where pay is determined. As it is the country that negotiates, it is the country that has parts of the key to – and also with the possibility of – doing something about the recruitment problems. So my starting point is that we have to use the tariffs, we have to use pay consciously to ensure future recruitment. The first reason we have is the year's tariff settlement. Well, I guess that's what it's all about. It is likely that there will not be such a very high-fat tariff settlement for anyone, but even if there is not so much to be distributed, it is important that there is a signal from the government that the teacher groups should be given priority. Not because there is a particular sin in them – it may be, but it's not the most important thing on our part. Because we can't get highly qualified teachers to the school we're responsible for, the most important thing on our part is that pay has to be done. This is my recommendation, and I'm excited about the answer from the Council of State. We have tried to mark this recommendation in a proposal for a decision for which the Assembly will have the opportunity to vote. There's no reason to hide that it's not just us who have come to the realization that wages are important. In March, for approx. A month ago, Right-Chair Jan Petersen was out there and clearly announced that we have to do something about the pay for the teachers' groups. So the recognition we've come to in SV, is obviously shared by many others, among other things. by the right, and hopefully also by other parts here in the hall. That is why we have tabled a proposal for a decision. I'm excited about the answer. I take up our proposal as I expect the Council of State will not be able to confirm that he will initially do what we ask for. But if he does, we're not going to get it down. I can promise the assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e652	Rolf Rikham has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e655	I understand the representative Reikvam's question so that he wants the Government to give a particular priority in advance of the pay-related parties in the country now on the way. The objective of such a priority should be to counteract any development with weak recruitment to the teaching profession. In connection with the recruitment issue, Stortinget took the following decisions on 12 March 1998: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit a separate action plan for recruitment to the teacher’s profession. The action plan must contain assessments of all aspects of the teacher's working conditions and measures to ensure both new recruitment and stability in the teacher's profession.» The reports received by the Department indicate that the recruitment of teachers, among others. varies with schools, subjects and geographical relationships. The reasons for these variations seem to be many and sometimes contradictory. The Ministry is currently working on an action plan, and this action plan will be presented to the Stortinget in the spring of 1999. In the context of the action plan, an assessment will be made of the recruitment of the teaching profession for the entire school, both undergraduate and further education. The Ministry aims to identify each and, where appropriate, the extent to which the recruitment situation is becoming a serious problem, the cause and the measures that can help to ensure the recruitment and stability of the teaching profession. Wages and salaries are one of several factors in the context of recruitment, and among the things that need to be assessed, teachers are their pay system as it works today. I don't find it natural to go into the recruitment issue until the government has submitted its final assessments to Stortinget. These assessments will form the basis for a broader political debate. In a recruitment aspect, it is also natural to assess the consequences of the state negotiating central wage agreements for teachers. There is a need to examine more closely what this position of negotiating responsibility for teaching staff has to say for recruitment and stability in the teaching profession. The Government has previously agreed to retain the negotiating responsibility of the State for the main tariff period 1998-2000. Saka raises a major problem and five of almost 100,000 workers. The government will continue to work on the matter during the period and assess the consequences of any transfer of negotiating responsibility. The representative Reikvam asks if the paycheck will be useful to counteract poor recruitment to the teaching profession. In my view, this question has to be asked. are seen in the context of the assessments that will be made in the teacher’s action plan. Among other things, such a priority should be adapted to the real recruitment needs. Those parts of the school where there is, or where there seems to be the greatest problem with recruiting and retaining teachers, and the most deferred groups of teachers, must be given priority first. As mentioned, the Government will look at all aspects of this issue and present the results for the Stortinget in its own action plan. The Parties to the Main Agreement on Tariffs, which are the Ministry of Labour and Administration and the main associations and Norwegian Teachers' Teams, are on their way into the spring tariffs. The tradition is that the social partners negotiate with a view to finding solutions to the pay gap. Therefore, I do not find it natural to comment on the salary-setting profile at such a time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e689	I had probably waited for the council to spend some time reflecting on the situation that I was trying to describe in my introduction. The numbers he's sitting with himself, and he probably knows the decline in the candidate number just as well as I do. We're going to have trouble filling up the places we have on general schooling already in the autumn. There's a reason to fear this from the numbers that we know before about those that are subtracting. Although they have general teacher education as their first priority, we know that people are pulling out. It is alarming that there are 13 – thirteen – of those who have mathematics, who today choose practical education at the University of Oslo. And this isn't something special for this semester, we've seen this in several semesters. Then I had calculated that the council would have spent some time reflecting around this. There won't be a crisis tomorrow. It's probably not going to be a crisis next school year, but in a few years, two or three years, we might be able to sit there with a larger proportion of teachers without a passing education than what we have today. For example, today in Oslo we have almost 10 pst., as I said. I also think there is quite a broad consensus that there is a link between pay and recruitment for a profession. We don't have very many Norwegian studies, but in England some studies, theoretical and empirical have been done, and they clearly show that if the relative wage levels of the teacher groups increase, access increases. That's one more thing that's interesting with those studies. They also show that there are fewer who end. It shows theoretical and empirical studies from England, and there is no reason to believe that the situation is significantly different in Norway. So what are our options? What opportunities do we have for the Storting to influence access to teachers and recruitment to the teaching profession? If we believe in these studies, we really don't have more than one possibility, and that's using the paycheck. That's the possibility we have. So the question is, do we want to use that opportunity? We invite Stortinget to give a signal to the Government that it should use this opportunity. We're very careful. We're just saying that we should prioritize them, because it's an important signal to give these groups. I do not discuss where employer responsibility should lie, it is uninteresting in this context, but we give a signal that the teacher groups should be given priority because they are dependent on us. It is necessary to ensure the recruitment of the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e698	The representative, Reikvam, says he is disappointed with few assessments by the Council of State in this matter. I'm probably not sure if it stacked as deep as what he expressed here. For the representative, Reikvam himself knows well that he has asked for a big message, an action plan for recruitment, which will soon be presented to the Stortinget. There this will be thoroughly paid out. I share many of the ratings of the representative here. However, as I understand it, there is a reason why the representative, Rikvam, still has this interference at that time. It's that there was now one could give a signal to the payroll decision. Of course, I accept that, but then it should not surprise Reikvam so much that I am not currently putting up with the broad debate on which this action plan is to be based. But this we get the opportunity to come back to. When it applies to some parts of the manufacture, I'm going to show that it's actually already done something. When, for example: For real science, it is unfortunately so that in continuing education youth did not choose real science. But then we've done a lot of work that makes more people now start choosing a real science. It is likely to turn out to be true for those who are taking a teacher's education. If a person neglects something for a few years, it takes a few years before one has it again. Since the representative mentioned it twice, I found a reason to mention that we are already in the process. But I promise both Mr Rikvam and Mr Stortinget that this will come back to us in a broad way, and I look forward to that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e707	I agree with the interpellant that there is cause for concern for future teacher coverage. That's why I did an interpellation a year ago and raised the debate. One might think about why we are debating this matter right now, when a mass increase has asked for an action plan, which the Council of State confirms soon is in this house, and which will also address pay issues. I see it as a matter of fact that the Council of State now confirms it. It was in the proposal adopted last year by a co-conspirator. The fact that there is now a signal to the payroll is the equivalent of what the interpellant did last year. He also gave a signal to the payroll decision last year, and I think the council and the department have taken those signals. But it's a fact that the number of teachers without approved education has accelerated in the last few years. So far we are talking about between 4000 and 5000 settings. The answer to this challenge is not unique. Wages are an important factor, but it's definitely not the most important one, I think. It's not just pay questions that give the fasitant answer. Of course, there may be reason to fear that when it comes to learning shortages, there may be a permanent situation. As I understand the ministry during the debate last year, they had predictions that the situation would be the same in 10-15 years if one didn't do dramatic or drastic things. We must be very careful that we do not now discuss issues that we are going to debate when the Government has presented its action plan. I'm glad that the Council of State didn't let itself be lured into the glare and take that debate now, before he got to the front of the message. I only want to make some comments about the suggestions that are out of the way, even if they are not out of the way. I also did not register that the interpellant is submitting its proposal, but I still want to make some comments. In the case of proposal No: 1, from the Right, I believe that the intention of the proposal was adopted in the unanimous decision last year. There is no reason to voice this now again, and I will encourage the Right to send it. In the case of SV's proposal, proposal No. 3, we definitely mean that there's a interference in the tariff settlement, and we want to vote against it. Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, goes straight into what we say about real competence and the reform of competences, cf. what we're dealing with in relation to the Orchid sac and the abbreviation lac, so it rhymes the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e724	The President perceived it as being promoted by the inter-pellant. – It is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e727	The representative Rikham addresses an important and difficult issue, a problem that does not have a simple and one-sided solution. Some of the answers may be found in increased salaries for teachers, and last year the Progress Party gave its support to the increases that came. Perhaps it is possible to make the profession even more attractive in the case of a number of future general wage increases. But maybe we should also look at other relationships. The visionary party Right, according to the media, recently found out that teacher pay should be differentiated, and that perhaps you should pay good teachers more. This is something the Progress Party proposed here in Stortinget more than ten years ago. It's clear that some people are skeptical about going into industries where individual effort and performance are little rewarded, and I hope that other parties too will get their eyes up to this fact, and that it does not take ten years, as it did for the Right Party. Another option is to look at the potential resource of the many experienced unskilled teachers. These include many people who will be able to continue in the profession and do an excellent job. In the context of the reform of continuing education and training, an overall increase was behind the fact that persons with a long practical experience in a profession could acquire formal competence. There were degree differences in how far the individual parties would go, but all agreed on the direction. Today I think we should take the first steps by saying that within the teaching profession we want to get this system in place as soon as possible. This can be done by ending the proposal that the Progress Party is promoting. The proposal outlines a system in which those with unskilled secondary education and experience will be able to take a shortened level of education up to formal competence as a skilled teacher. Of course, there won't be any more teachers of this proposal, but we guarantee the quality of the staff we have, which hopefully will remain in this profession in the future. This is central to the difficult situation we've come into. But I would like to stress that this is not the solution to all the problems surrounding this relationship, but it will be an important contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e738	First of all, a small comment on the proposal put forward by the Progress Party. When I find it very difficult to vote for it, it is because the proposal is fundamentally unclear. It is not clear which part of the teacher’s education and which part of the schoolwork is involved. Is this the case for vocational training, as far as general teacher training is concerned, in the pre-school stage, at the top of secondary school? In my opinion, it is not possible for Stortinget to oblige the Government to draw up and implement guidelines for something that is so unclear. It would have to be reasonable to ask for an assessment of the possibilities for a curtailed course of training. In that case, I wouldn't have any problems supporting it. So to what's the main thing for the interpellant and the interpellant. There is reason to stress the importance of wage policy for recruitment more strongly than we have done in recent years. This is due to the fact that in Norway we have probably been concerned about the real economic differences in pay differentials, which in many cases are not extremely interesting if you look at gross income/net income. But we have underestimated, I think, the symbolic importance of wage policy, namely the fact that, through their pay policy in the public sector, society gives quite clear signals of how to value the different types of skills, and also how to value the different types of work. The worker is worth his salary, it says in a book that the council knows almost as well as I do. There's probably reason to put more emphasis on that generality than we've been doing in the last ten years, because there's no doubt that the interpellant is right that over the last ten years, there has been a gradual error that makes the teaching profession increasingly unlucky. What is most paradoxical is that bias increases with the degree of competence. It is the most long-term teachers who have come out of control in relation to the general wage trend. The answer to this is, in my opinion, not to intervene in the ongoing wage settlement, where there are microscopic quantities available, as we all know, because of the salary settlement we had last year. The appropriate answer to this must be to address wage policy. That is why I have put forward the proposal which has been distributed and which emphasises that it is the pay policy as a whole, the way in which wage formation takes place, which, in the case of the teaching profession, has slowed down. This has also been expressed by the interpellant in an interview with the Teachers’ Association’s body in the past, but he is apparently not fully in line with his own party when it comes to seeing this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e751	This interpellation merges into the pattern of anticipating matters that have already been notified by the Government. That's the opposition's privilege. If it accelerates the processes, it remains to be seen. The interpellant indicates that new batch signals indicate that they have changed their attitude towards prioritising teachers in the preparation of wages. ‘This may be an expression of a greater willingness of the Storting to take responsibility’, says the Interpellation Text. I must note that using the term ‘will to take responsibility’ in this connection is something sought. One may well be responsible without addressing the pay question for some occupational groups here in Stortinget. I also remind you of the reactions of various party representatives when the Council of State in an enthusiastic speech last year from this pulpit came to say how glad it was that teachers had improved pay terms. It was then pointed out that it was not time for politicians to think anything while wage negotiations were taking place. The size was not meant to be such, as it is the responsibility of the social partners. Today, paradoxically, we have just a debate on this. Yes, that's how the situation can change. The centre party believes that all professions related to human treatment, whether in the field of training, care or health care, should be valued much higher than is the case today. But to date, society has not prioritised this. It is the technical professions and IT that have had primacy and prestige. These professions have been dominated by men, while women are a large majority in the care professions and in primary school teacher groups. It is therefore necessary to mention this in this debate as well. In general, women’s organisations have had to do this over the years. It should go on. Interpellant asks whether the Council agrees that poor recruitment to the teaching profession is becoming a serious problem. The councils have given their answer, which I think was reasonable and balanced. The centre party takes a serious view that there is poor recruitment for the important teaching profession, but perhaps the lack can be an incentive for change to happen. Isn't it that scarcity of something can lead to greater demand, to borrow words from the economy? We see that some municipalities use this principle to get nurses. Let me add that I primarily don't want such a development. Then it will be the local economy that will decide if the schools will have qualified teachers. The central party wants all municipalities, regardless of the financial situation, to have access to teachers without pursuing any policy of oversupply. Therefore, the level of wages and salaries should generally be raised. This is probably the interpellant and I agree. However, according to recent polls, as reported in the VG yesterday, workers are more concerned with securing employment than with improving pay levels. In fact, the professional background they asked for was not disclosed, but according to the essay, the head of the Teachers' Association, Anders Folkestad, was muted when he was presented with the figures. I expect the social partners to negotiate on the basis of more complete documentation than polls. However, it is interesting on a principle basis whether prioritisation and valuation go in the direction indicated by the VG statement. Moderateness is generally a healthy principle.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e766	The representative of No Wage gets the floor to make suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e769	I became aware that I explicitly neglected to make the proposal that I mentioned, which is in the seats. So this proposal has been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e774	The President was also a little oblivious and could have made it clear that it had not been put forward. However, the proposal has now been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e777	I feel that the representative Reikvam, with this interpellation, wants to take the debate on the situation of the teachers in advance of the big message that was expected to be given to the Stortinget in May. Then Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss issues related to recruitment to the teaching profession in its full scope, and I think it might be unnecessary with this debate today. But of course, pay is part of the problem in relation to this, and I expect that we will come back to that. The majority had a similar debate a little over a year ago. Also, Reikvam wanted Stortinget to intervene in the pay question in relation to the teachers just before the negotiations started. I would like to stress that it is not Storting's job to conduct wage negotiations. On the other hand, I see it as right and necessary that remuneration as a motivation factor should also be discussed in the context of the communication dealing with the situation of teachers. The left believes it is absolutely essential to achieve the goal of a better school that the teachers to do the job are motivated and competent. The future of schools and students depends on skilled teachers. Therefore, there are alarming signals that many of the graduates who are trained teachers do not enter the teaching profession and that many older teachers leave the profession before reaching retirement age. It is particularly alarming that the school has problems recruiting teachers with real science. To recruit more and keep the good teachers, the teaching profession needs to be made more attractive. Obviously, the salary level is also a factor affecting this. The left considers it important that the individual teacher should have greater opportunity to influence his/her career and salary development without leaving teaching as a primary task, and we consider whether a greater degree of differentiation in teacher pay can contribute to meeting that objective. But these are questions that we want to come back to when the Storting is going to discuss recruiting for the teaching profession with the background in the upcoming big message. The challenge is not only to recruit new teachers for school, but also to facilitate teachers wanting to stay in school. This is about far more than wages. Assessing the role of teachers is important. We had a debate on Tuesday where the parties were gathered to think that each school and individual teacher should be given more freedom. I think these are signals many teachers are happy to hear. Many have felt overwhelmed and disqualified as professionals. I look forward to the Storting discussing the situation of the teachers in full breadth, and I leave to the Government to negotiate on the coming salary settlement. With regard to the proposal promoted by the Progress Party, I agree with the representative's assessment of the salary, and I think it is surprising that the Labour Party is jumping on such a proposal without further consideration. I would recommend that the Left Group vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e798	All parties are concerned about the professional status and pay relationships of teachers and not least about the future recruitment of primary and secondary teachers. I've heard several people here point out that my proposal is unpresidual, and that may be it. We have a lot of teachers in Norwegian school. We have pre-school teachers, general teachers, university teachers, adjuncts and lecturers, and we have vocational teachers. To do this very briefly, my suggestion is directed towards teachers who get their education at colleges. I am thinking of pre-school teachers who are today approved to work with 6-year-olds in 1st class, but are unskilled assistants when these 6-year-olds come up in 2nd class. Here we have a long, wide range of people who have chosen to enter a work situation without being trained from college to deal with this. Many have worked on this for very many years, but they are still so-called unskilled workers. When we face a worrying recruitment situation, giving these people the opportunity to gain full competence to do the work they already do today may be a remedial measure that is as good as promoting interpellations in a wage struggle. In this respect, I would like to show that this has already been done. A project has been carried out for this in Sogn and Fjordane, where among others. The teacher team at Helga Hjetland has been in and approved it. From what Hetland told me, the result of the Sogn and Fjordane model was very, very good. We have previously approved in this house a curtailed nursing education in the Orchid for special groups. It was a bit difficult to do because of collective agreements. But there is no stranger in the proposal I am actually making. Should I have clarified this as carefully as the representative of the payroll was really about, I thought on behalf of the Progress Party that it would be the same as binding the government on hands and feet, and then demanding that they all ran a hundred meters of fence in normal time, and it did not appear to the Progress Party that we should do so. We have great faith that this government can solve these problems with a slightly slacker formulation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e809	The President must ask whether the representative has promoted the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e812	As far as I was aware, the representative, Ulf Erik Knudsen, presented the proposal in his statement. If he has not done so, I naturally promote my own proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e817	It's being investigated. We'll get back to it if it's not promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e820	Recruiting to the teaching profession and keeping teachers is a problem we're already seeing, and we're going to see more in the years to come if we don't do pretty much drastic things. The salary level is essential for recruitment, which the representative of Reikvam has been involved in, and there is no doubt about it, and it is very important that we from the Storting today send out a signal about this. But from there to intervene properly in the pay-roll and ask the Government to give priority to a particular group when it comes to marginal supplements we can get this year – I don't think that's where the most important thing is. However, we have proposals from the Right's side, and I hope the Council of State in its reply will comment a little more on how he views what we say about focusing on what wage policy has to say as an instrument in the action plan to be presented, hopefully in a month's time. This with salary levels is just one of the elements when it comes to recruitment, and we'll get back to most of the others later this year in connection with the action plan. Another factor that I think is just as important as the salary level is the flexibility that is increasingly calling for in Norwegian schools in several different areas. As late as Tuesday, we had a debate on this with greater autonomy in Norwegian schools to make better use of the resources that are out in schools. Both state councils and representatives from all parties present were busy with this, and there was a very positive debate. But I think that even when it comes to payroll issues, with greater flexibility, this is a topic that we need to take a little bit more seriously than we've done so far. It is clear that there are a lot of good teachers in Norwegian schools, and some do something far beyond what can be expected both within working hours and to some extent outside. And I thought it would be natural for a principal, like a pedagogical leader and leader at a school, to have a capacity to appreciate these teachers a little bit more. We have to be able to keep these fires in Norwegian school, no matter what we talk about when it comes to factors that are important to knowledge and future in the school, we don't get along with the fact that it's the teachers that's the most important thing. We know this, we know the teachers, this knows the teachers' organizations, this knows the council, and then it's about a maturing before this with more flexibility comes in – just given as a signal so far.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e833	The Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament require the order of the formalities. The President considers the proposal of the Progress Party as being promoted by the representative of Ursula Evje.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e837	I share the concerns and commitment shown by the representative of Requam through the interpellation he is raising today. However, I have to wonder at both the time it comes, and the concrete proposal that has come about, as the Stortinget will in a short time have the opportunity to discuss teacher recruitment in a broader context than just a pay question. But I also agree that salary issues are a central part of this, and I am therefore pleased that the Council of State has announced that the question of wage formation will be a central part of the message that he is now presenting. When I take the floor now, it is also to comment on some of the proposals that have come. I would like to say that in relation to the representative's proposal for wages, I would have preferred that it also be sent to the Government, simply because the Council of State has already said that this will be part of the teacher's recruitment message. With regard to Rolf Rikvam's proposal, I think it directly interferes with the payroll, and I don't think it should be the Stortinge line. Here I share the Workers' Party and Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen's reasons. The proposal of the Progress Party and Ursula Evje has a positive intention in relation to short-term education. But as it is formulated, I experience it – like the representative, Wage – as very unclear. I had appreciated that the proposal might have had the form of Document No 8 proposal. At least it had been the subject of a committee discussion, and one had been told what the content of the proposal was. When the proposal is promoted in this way, I think the Stortinget will have an unfortunate procedure, and the ambiguities in the proposal make it difficult for me to vote for it, even though I have a great sense of intention in it. I want to have a level of precision on what's being adopted, which makes me sure I know what's in the decision. That is why I had seen it as an advantage if the representative Evje had turned this into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e846	It worries me that so many share my concern without wanting to do anything with their concern. Because it must be a little bad to walk around and be very worried, without showing any willingness to do anything about it. Why are we debating this matter today? It should be pretty obvious, and I think it's a rhetorical, almost silly, question. We are debating this matter today because we are now facing a pay settlement in the state sector, and because the Right – among other things. Right-leader Jan Petersen – for approx. A month ago, it was clear that we had to do something about the level of pay for teachers. That was the starting point for this interpellation. I see it as there was an increased political will to make the paychecks to do something about the teacher's wages. That was the starting point, and that was the background. If we were to wait for the message we're going to get in May, we wouldn't have had an opportunity to influence the payroll. It is a clear wish from me and from SV – I had also hoped from Stortinget – to influence. We can't just say that social development is. What we have to do is try to influence social development, and that in an area that is absolutely vital and central to us, that is our ability to create teachers. It's time we stopped seeing about this; we know a good deal. We know there are some contexts. There is scientific evidence that there is a link between pay and the provision of teachers — and the departure of teachers. I have said this before: Theoretical and empirical studies from abroad show this, and we can do similar in Norway – perhaps we should. But we have knowledge, and there are questions about using knowledge. There is therefore no need to engage in vision. We have to take the consequences of the knowledge we have. If not, we're not doing our job. I agree with the Council of State that we have made changes in mathematics in high school that make it possible for one to get more mathematicians to choose practical education. But there's no shortage of mathematicians at the university today that's the problem. The problem is that these mathematicians – those who have mathematics, either middle or primary, or what they might have – don't choose practical education. They do not think this is interesting; there are different reasons for other jobs they prefer, where pay is probably – not only likely, certainly – an important and central element. I'm sorry that there's no willingness to understand this in Stortinget. I can promise Storting that we'll never give up, because this is important. Otherwise, we're in a hopeless situation in the near future. So, finally, with regard to the proposal from the Progress Party: we have the same objections as the Right, but the principles and the intention are right and in accordance with what we have said before, so we consider voting for it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e864	No, the representative Rikvam is not right that there are enough mathematicians in the university. There's not enough real science at all, either at the university or at the university. This is one of the reasons why there is also too few at a practical educational seminar. But it's clear that even pay can be a cause that no more of those who are equally full there, well that, the representative Rikvam and I can agree on that. But it's too few in college. That's what we hope is changing. I'm glad that almost all the parties, without interpellantence, agree that one should not intervene in the wage negotiations. At the same time, I have noticed the outrage that is leading to us doing something. The message should come when I have a notification. I have understood the expectations of what is in the message. An additional comment on the proposal from Inge Wage on behalf of the Right: I confirm that the dimension they are asking for will be in what the Government is proposing. So some words to the suggestion of abbreviation from Ursula Evje. I found that the representative described the remainder of the wording in a good way. Now it was very fine what the representative Evje said as a follow-up, but the proposal is formulated as it is. I have an audacious plea to the representative, Mr Evje, that she should have this proposal transmitted or considered as an alternative whether the representative, Mr Lyngstad, said that it should have been a Document No. 8-proposals, or that here and now I promise feedback during the spring on how I think we can start a work that is related to, among other things. The reform of competence may meet the concerns of the representative Evje. I ask in a way that we do not implement a teacher-training reform on the basis of a somewhat unclear proposal for a decision. Both the representative Evje and the teachers are better equipped. I don't stand there criticizing that one can formulate unluckyly, because it does this council at regular intervals, but I think it's nice if we can be some people that we're dealing with, and then we'll formulate something more precise later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e875	Thus, the interpellation debate is under case No. 2 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e891	This is – at least it could be – an invitation to a reprisal of an interpellation we had not much more than a year ago on the same theme. I hope, however, that there may be something more than a reprisal, because the debate at that time from my side, among other things. had the background in the following quotation from the revised national budget of the then government of Jagland in 1997: ‘Since border trade does not appear to have contributed to significant problems of retail trade and employment in border regions, and because of any national tax reduction, inter alia. would result in a large loss of proceeds, it is considered that there is no reason to apply special measures in the area of charging to reduce border trade.» Without going well for everything from A to Å in the opinion of the revised national budget of the previous government, I have to say that the Minister of Finance, in his reply to me, went very far in supporting what was the reality of the revised national budget in 1997. He also went very far into doubting the figures that came from the commercial industry, primarily from the main trade and service industry organisation. At the time, they had an estimate showing a trade leakage of 5.7 billion, while in their reply the Minister of Finance thought, with some reservations about uncertain figures, that the correct level was about about. Three billion kroner. Then I would like to start by asking a very specific question to the Minister for Finance: is he still of the opinion that border trade does not seem to pose significant problems for retail trade and employment in border regions? If the Council of State still thinks it is right, it is only to note that we are in different worlds in relation to the reality of the border trade. There has been a lot of talk about greed culture in the Norwegian public debate in recent years. My conclusion has long been that there has been a debate aimed at individuals and individuals, and raising awareness of ethical attitudes among individuals is certainly an objective that I fully support. But it must also be allowed to say that perhaps the best way to put any failure of the individual into focus is to look at what morality, what ethics, what culture the state itself stands for. I think it will be very difficult to find an example of a culture of greed in private people that is more pronounced than the country's culture of greed when it comes to charging these aspects of legal Norwegian consumption patterns. On legal goods such as alcohol, tobacco, partly food, to a large extent also fuel and other transport charges, we have a level of charges in Norway that is totally dramatically different from what we have in our neighbouring country. This has led to relationships that contribute to the opposite of promoting ethical attitudes among individuals, simply resulting in a significant weakening of respect for law and order. In addition, these dramatic consequences – I deliberately use such a strong word as ‘dramatic’ – especially in relation to how people trying to feed in border areas in Norway experience this competitive situation. One should be careful to draw far-reaching conclusions from a private experience, but the jam sometimes makes a strong impression: Monday in the Easter week I was with my wife on a trip to Charlottenberg, 45 km from my home. You can, of course, put different considerations into something like that, for example. say that it is nice that a poor people like the Norwegian have the opportunity to travel abroad. It is also possible to say that there is something jumping wrong somewhere when thousands of thousands of Norwegians have to stand in something I would call unworthy cows to trade perfectly normal goods that almost all people in Norway use. It was, therefore, without all possibly interested in this as much, six-hour queue – with dolls correctly, the world is going ahead – to buy the legal, and possibly illegal, allowances on the system company, and there were almost equivalent cows in the various grocery stores in Charlottenberg to buy food, tobacco and snuff. If this had only been fun and maybe a little hesitated, we could live with it, but we know that there were corresponding empty shops on the Norwegian side of the border in all these sectors that I'm talking about. It's not so much fun for those who run these shops! And I agree – I guess the Council of State will also talk about this this time – that the pattern of residence is different in Norway than in Sweden. There are several people living close to the Norwegian border, so that there will always be a natural trade leak – now I believe that the attempts of the majority of the population, primarily through predatory game policy, will soon offset these differences too, but that is a degression in relation to today's debate. So far, I have talked most about the impact on nutrition and trade. In the case of fuel, I have received a few concrete examples from Norway's Lastebileier-Verbund, which shows that on an annual basis a Danish car saves NOK 119 000, a Swedish car NOK 124 000 and a Finnish car NOK 122 000 compared to a corresponding Norwegian car train. This is bad because it also competitions Norwegian domestic transport; it also attracts foreigners to Norway and competes in the domestic Norwegian market, with 600 litres, perhaps 1000 litres, of fuel on the tank. This, of course, is illegal. You can sit down and say physical, physical, this wasn't nice, but we don't even try to control it! And when it comes to control, we never know exactly how many control measures we have to have along the border to stop smuggling and illegal passage. But we know a little bit, some of us are so old that we remember that we had a regime for a few decades back. Then there were 300,000 German soldiers in Norway, and we know that it was too little to stop the leakage across the border. So at least we have to have more than that if we're just going to block what most people think is to make up for a rather unworthy level of competition. Then we come to this which the Council of State rejected in the previous debate, namely the consequences for illegal activity. As late as the evening post on March 28th, a famous liquor smuggler says that he fears only one thing, he fears a fall in prices. And what's also interesting is that he's infecting-- and that was one of the Council's points in our previous debate-- that it's impossible to compete down against smuggler prices. It's being infected by the professionals in the industry. Because it's the adventurous profit margins that make it possible to recruit people who are willing to take the significant risk that, after all, they're doing illegal business. But when profits become so colossal, there are people who can buy at that kind of risk. So there are people who think that four-five months of stay in a Norwegian prison is a price worth securing these big profits. Everything therefore suggests that it is not necessary to lower prices to a level close to what can reasonably be called smuggler prices. The police also say in connection with the same article that with today's regime they find it useless to act. But if prices are cut, the police are prepared to go in and check, because then they also get morale on their side and can stop this much more effectively than you have so far been able to do. I have tried to get short on alcohol, tobacco, meat and other goods, the transport industry and smuggling. Now I'm anxious to wait for the Council of State's response. And to stick to the formalities of Storting, I allow myself to take up the suggestions that I have made on behalf of Right, and that are distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e920	The representative, Hernæs, has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e923	The representative, Bjørn Hernæs, asks questions about what is the Government’s strategy in the short and long term in order to reduce the level of trade leakage and Norwegian measures related to Swedish charging policies in this area. I would first like to say a little general about what I think is problematic about border trade, and what I consider to be less problematic. I would also like to touch on the charging policy and address any measures relating to border trade. There will always be some border trade. The extent of border trade depends on a number of factors, from which differences in charges and prices between countries are an important factor. Even without significant price differences, there will always be border trade, among other things. as a result of differences in product range. Furthermore, cross-border trade contributes to increased competition and efficiency, which is beneficial to consumers through lower prices and better choice of products. Cross-border trade is primarily a problem if it contributes to high resource depletion by many making long trades motivated by price differences due to different national levels of taxation. It is also a problem if border trade results in a significant loss of tax revenue or reduces the possibility of using taxes to contribute to better health and the environment. Extensive border trade may also weaken the importance of agricultural import protection. It has been argued that border trade can cause problems for the turnover and employment of retail trade near the border. This was further explained in the revised national budget for 1997. The relationship was highlighted by the statistics of national retail sales and employment in retail trade of the Central Statistical Office. At the time, Eastfold was found to be slightly below the national average per year. builds up in the case of turnover but not employment in retail trade. However, the holding was significantly above the national average. In this context, it was concluded that differences in retail trade between parts of the country may be due to a number of factors and that border trade is only one of several factors. The interpellant claims that the trade leakage is likely to amount to more than NOK 7 billion. This number is going to be at his expense. We are largely lacking knowledge of the extent of border trade. In the revised 1998 national budget, border trade for 1997 was estimated at DKK 3.6 billion on a very uncertain basis. If we base the growth in exchange rates for 1998 at the Norwegian Bank’s department in Fredrikstad as an indicator of developments for the last year, we will estimate the amount of DKK 4.5 – 5 billion. As you can see, this is significantly lower than the number that the interpellant says. I would, however, be the first to stress the uncertainty of such figures because of the lack of statistics. I see it as a problem that good statistics on the extent and development of border trade are not available. The Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, is now in the process of launching a border-trade survey. In the interpellation, reference is made to the ‘high level of Norwegian taxation’. Let me just remind you first that Norwegian tobacco duty rates were adjusted only from the last year, without any real increase. The tax rates on spirits and wine were reduced, both nominally and in real terms. However, it is doubtful that taxes on alcohol and tobacco are higher in Norway than in most other countries. This ratio is explained in more detail in the revised 1998 national budget, where Norwegian, Swedish and Danish levels of fees were compared. High Norwegian taxes on these products are particularly justified on grounds of health. In the interpellation reference is made to ‘expected comprehensive Swedish tax reductions’. There have been speculations in Swedish media about likely Swedish tax reductions. This is because changes in the allowances rules are expected to be made to other EU countries, including the EU Member States. for alcoholic beverages. However, according to information we have obtained from Swedish charging authorities, no immediate change of charges is expected in our neighbouring country. Sweden has agreed with the EU that the current quota rules can continue until July 2000. Sweden and the EU will negotiate what will happen next. Denmark and Finland may maintain their quota rules until 2004. There is no reason to expect Sweden to have a shorter transitional period. To the extent that Sweden reduces its level of charges over time, there may be significant consequences for border trade and smuggling, which means that we may need to assess our charges more closely. The interpellation also mentions high Norwegian food prices. Prices of food products have been in the last few years, for example: It has been influenced by changes in the food tax both in Sweden and Norway. From 1 January 1996, the food tax in Sweden was reduced from 21 to 12 pst. This occurred immediately before the revision of the national budget for 1996, where the Labour Party Government, with the support of the Right, removed the VAT compensation scheme for certain foodstuffs. This helped to increase Norwegian prices of meat, milk and cheese during a period when Swedish prices of similar products had been reduced. Although there are no statistics to illustrate the development of border trade for these commodities, I believe that this is a basis for assuming that changes in food prices in Norway and Sweden may have contributed to increased border trade. Previous studies indicate that meat products constitute the largest group of goods traded by the Nordics in Swedish grocery stores. Norway, together with Denmark, is the only country in Europe that does not practise a lower VAT system. The government will continue to work to change the VAT system in line with the signals given in the Adult Stockholm Declaration. I have signaled that it is aimed at providing a comprehensive reform of the VAT system early next spring. In this context, it is natural to assess the food compartment. Reduced food tax can help limit the trade of food by the Nordics in other countries. Interpellant refers to smuggling and other crime that may result from the Norwegian level of charges. The profitability of such activities will depend on the Norwegian level of charges. If, among other things, we: based on Norwegian alcohol policy, a high price level of alcohol in Norway will increase the risk of such criminal activity in isolation. However, it is my opinion that it is not desirable to reduce Norwegian charges towards the European level in order to combat smuggling. Criminal activities need to be combated primarily by other means, primarily by increasing the risk of detection through improved control measures. In this context, the Ministry has proposed several measures, including: increased access to the simplified presentation of customs infringements. The Customs and Charges Directorate is continuously working to identify the processes and organisational forms of the agency that ensure targeted resource use in border control. However, I would like to stress that although it is not appropriate to lower taxes on alcohol and tobacco towards the European level, our own level of charges must also be assessed in the light of developments in other countries. Excessive tax differences between Norway and other countries may weaken legitimacy and the positive effects of alcohol taxes such as alcohol policy instruments. Higher charges make it particularly profitable to smuggle, and the level of smuggling suggests that people see too little sale and purchase of smuggler brandy and cigarettes as a serious problem. I can also inform you that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has asked the State Institute for Alcohol and Drug Research to carry out a survey of the link between taxes/prices and the consumption of alcohol. The survey shall be completed in the spring of 2000. Due to the lack of statistical information, it is difficult to say something about the extent and development of border trade, and whether the level mentioned by the interpellant is close to the actual level. However, the Ministry of Finance is now launching a study on the scale and composition of border trade. In other ways, too, the Ministry of Finance will follow developments in border trade as well as possible in the future. I want to come back to Stortinget with new information and assessments if new information provides a basis for this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e958	Despite the small flash of light in between the answer, for which of course I would like to thank, the most concrete thing in the answer was that if it is to continue in this way, we can look forward to annual reprisals of this type of debate for a considerable number of years in the future, because it was largely a repetition of the previous views expressed by the Council of State. That he also now repeats that there are inadequate statistics disappoints me. If there is an argument that he considers relevant in the debate, I must say that both he and his predecessors have had ample opportunity to obtain that information. It's very easy to ask a suspicious question – what I don't do, of course – if he might not want to know about the real scope. If you wanted to, you'd know. Now it's not like these numbers are mine. These are the main figures of the trade and service industry, and I have reason to believe that the Council of State has received the same report from HSH that I have received, which says that the border trade increased by a total of 42 pst. in March, that it is increasing steadily, and that according to HSH forecasts, Nordics are going to act for over DKK7.5 billion in 1999. I think it is too easy to reject prognosis from a serious organization in the way that the Council of State does, and I want to challenge him in a concrete way: could the Council of State imagine drawing business organisations into the commission of inquiry, or what is its name, which is now finally prescribed by the Ministry of Commerce? I have in mind, in particular, involving HSH and Norway's Lastebileier-Federal, which have very sharp figures in this area. I see that Lars Gunnar Lie has entered the hall. I have reason to believe that he has information from the annual meeting of the truck industry in Sogn and Fjordane during the weekend that was, and that he can confirm the position in this very important industry for Norway. And not least, I want to draw the food industry in Norway, both private and cooperative, which accounts for a very large number of jobs, into these surveys. In the case of the food tax, I saw the Polish points of the Council of State a year ago. Now I want to remind you that he is actually in a government that has repeatedly had the opportunity to promote this expected, promised or assumed proposition on lower Norwegian food tax. I don't think it's going to be a problem for me to get the Right to agree to review that proposal if you take the consequences of it. But maybe we can do that another time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e973	Let me first express a hope that the interpellant did not perceive me so that I minimize the problem of border trade. I pointed out that it doesn't just give you problems, it's someone who sees it as an advantage. I think those who live along the border and get to buy cheap goods in Sweden don't think it's a big problem. Let's mention that, too. And this with a larger range of products could be seen as an advantage, so the problem is not one-sided. In addition, there is also a cross-border trade. It is probably much smaller, because fewer Swedes live in such a way as to cross the border with Norway that they naturally take their way across the border. But there is also, of course, a certain border trade going on the opposite side, which in that case should be deducted from the figures that you want to operate on. So my point was that what has been largely used as a basis, to estimate the extent of border trade, is very uncertain. The exchanges taking place at a specific department of the Bank of Norway are not a precise basis for calculating what trade represents across the Norwegian border towards Sweden. The calculations carried out in the Ministry of Finance also show somewhat lower figures this time, as was the case a year ago, compared to the other. But that border trade has a certain extent, that there are a few billions involved in it, and that, of course, in isolation also means some lost jobs, there is no doubt about it. This is also the case, at least as far as these exchange rates can be taken into account, that there is an increase from year to year. From 1997 to 1998, there was probably an increase in the order of 30 pst. 31 pst. is the number I've been given, and it's right that the representative hereafter points out that we have a certain increase this year as well. I don't know if it was a coincidence that he mentioned the number for March. 42 pst. for March is correct. There are lower figures for the previous two months, for example: only 15 pst. for January. However, it indicates a trend similar to the one we had between 1997 and 1998, that there may also be an increase in the order of 30 pst between 1998 and 1999. Now the point is that we're going to get a little bit better overview of this. That's why I mentioned in my article the project that we want to start. I do not know whether it is appropriate to draw the organisations that the representative hereafter mentioned directly into the investigation. It is clear that anyone who can provide information and facts will be welcome to come with them. We'll see to that. So I don't know if the representative Hernæs takes his mouth a little too full if I were to perceive him so that he here and now signals support from the Right to the lower matmoms. If it's right that he does, it's very happy. There has not been any Right-wing policy so far. Unfortunately, the situation is that until now there has been no establishment or revealed a majority in the Storting for lower food tax, but we get back to that when the matter of VAT reform is presented, probably in a short year's time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e986	The Labour Party takes seriously the problems associated with border trade. What happens at our borders is an illustration that Norwegian policy cannot be designed separately from the outside world. What happens outside the country's borders has consequences for us whether we like it or not. We will not avoid assessing our taxes on what is defined as baits, especially alcohol and tobacco. What neighbouring Sweden is doing in this context in relation to the EU by 2003–04 will naturally affect our tax assessments in relation to such goods. We — as Sweden — face a number of balances, including the health effects of this. We don't want to take action to increase the consumption of alcohol and tobacco. On the contrary, we have objectives to reduce such consumption. The charges are also an essential part of the country's income. Our taxes on tobacco and alcohol are currently giving revenue to the Treasury equivalent to the total budget of the Ministry of Transport. And there's a lot of money, although many in this room would have liked it to be even more there, not less. Some of the arguments we face are that reduced fees will reduce illegal turnover and bring in more from taxable sales. I would like that to be the case, but here we need to know more before we make any major changes. As far as I am aware, Sweden will be presenting a proposal on its tax adaptations to the EU at the end of May this year. What the Swedes do will provide an important clarification for our future strategy and the degree to which fees will be reduced. I would like to stress that we in the Workers' Party are taking seriously the problems associated with border trade. But the simplified issues that lie in Bjørn Hernæs' proposals, and the concrete measures proposed by Siv Jensen, the Labour Party is not prepared to vote in favour of this House today. We assume that the Government — which is also required by the Council of State — will come back to the Grand Duchy in a holistic way with assessments of the employment, trade and health policy effects of tax changes. For its part, the Labour Party has already started a sample work to assess all relevant issues related to cross-border trade, and in this context we will be in contact with interested interest groups and organisations. Our work shall be completed in connection with the budgetary procedure for the autumn. We assume that the government's work will also be available for the budget procedure for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e999	This debate is taking place in a wide range of debates on the problems of border trade leakage, without the Storting adopting the necessary proposals that had prevented a leakage that has now grown to heaven. There is no doubt that meatberg passes over the Svinesund bridge every week because the Norwegians trade pig-free – I am even eastfolding. The negative impacts have been reported with full strength – an estimated 7 000 lost jobs in the commercial and service industries, as well as several thousand lost jobs in the agri-food industry, Norwegian wholesale trade, transport and much more. Here in the day one more company was laid down in my own state, and it was argued that the border-trade leakage caused it. It was a meat business. In the Easter election the Norwegians went to Sweden. I believe that if Kari and Ola Nordmann now reinforce their protests against the Norwegian tax and agricultural policy and give the border trade Easter dimensions throughout the year, it may force the government to reduce the charges on baits. The loss of tax revenue from unemployed persons, expenditure on unemployment benefits and measures will be noticeable. In addition, there are significant losses of income from alcohol taxes, petrol and automotive diesel taxes, tobacco taxes and value added tax, which may help the Government change its policy. Through their own experience, the Swedes have understood the importance of reduced fees as an effective means of reducing borderline leakage to Denmark, as well as the smuggling of alcohol and cigarettes, especially from the Baltic region. Even representatives of the Christian People's Party's sister party in Sweden, the Christian Democratic Party, support reductions in alcohol and tobacco taxes because they have understood the point, so look to Sweden, Kjell Magne Bondevik and Gudmund Restad! At Østfold Arbeiderparti's annual meeting in Halden, Thorbjørn Jagland informed recently that the party would set up a working group to analyse the effects of the level of taxes on alcohol and tobacco, and, after Dalheim's contributions, we understand that the Workers' Party will decide on this in connection with the budget for the autumn. Such an investigation of the consequences of border trade, as Ichland calls for, was presented by an investigation of the Government in the revised national budget in 1997. It was established that the price differences of baits are precisely the cause of the borderline leakage. For this reason, the Progress Party believes, and preferably everything in the context of the revised national budget, that action should be taken as soon as possible in order to reduce the level of charges for baits. For many years we have gone the farthest in proposing reductions in taxes on petrol, car diesel, tobacco and alcohol. At the same time, we want food production to be subject to competition law. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party, which is distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1014	The Minister of Finance is quite right that there has always been border trade, but in the past border trade went quite smoothly both ways. If you look at the border trade today, the train goes one way. That train goes more often and more often, and there are more and more traveling by train. Border trade is – quite right, as the Minister of Finance said – a great pleasure for us consumers who live near the Swedish border. We're going to use it, and we're going to use it even more than before. But for the commercial industry, it looks completely different. For Eastfold and other counties that are at a useful distance from the cold, lost income and lost jobs mean. You say you lack knowledge. I don't think it's knowledge there's a lack of, either statistics, but a willingness to do something. The fact that a new study should now be launched, called on the majority of the Committee on Budgets to do so in its observations in the budgetary position. I assume this is a pure follow-up of it. The Swedes are increasingly scorching at merchants. Border trade increased, as I said earlier, by 42 pst. in March this year in relation to the same period last year, and that was also a record. When Swedish food prices are reduced by 15-20 p.m. in the future and there will be a further reduction in the taxes on alcohol and tobacco, you can only imagine the explosion in the border trade. The Swedish do not believe that the Norwegian Government will do anything about the big price gap we have, among other things. on tobacco and alcohol, the so-called baits. Systembolaget plans to build a new large branch in Stroemstad. There is clearly a need for that. And in the summer it's going to open two new grocery stores right over on the Swedish side. We also know that the Nordics drink over 7 liters of pure alcohol every year. The problem is that less and less of what we drink is purchased on the pole. And so it's that someone thinks that when the sale of the wine monopoly goes down, the consumption goes down. But in reality, there is increasing imports via smuggling and border trade. Therefore, the health argument for keeping the high level of fees cannot really be sustainable when we know that more and more of what is consumed is obtained through non-legal purchases in Norway. It has to be a shell cover in order to maintain revenue to the treasury.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1027	The topic that the interpellant has addressed today is very important, and I think we all in this room can agree on one thing: the border trade or the trade leakage of the first time Sweden has gradually become a significant problem. That being said, that doesn't mean that we all have the same perception of why the border trade is getting bigger and bigger, either about how we can stop it or reduce it at all. In addition, I do not want to dwell on speculations about how much border trade represents in terms of lost tax revenue for Norway, or how many jobs are lost as a result of this. It is sufficient to note that we are talking about significant figures, both in the form of lost income to the state and in the form of job losses. Now, once again, the interpellant and the party to which he belongs cannot be said in any way to have contributed constructively to reducing the scale of border trade. One must be able to assume that there is both the level of the charge on the baits — tobacco and alcoholic beverages — and the level of the price of food that helps buyers to cross Sweden’s borders with a full wallet and an empty car. With regard to the level of food prices, the Right has been very reluctant to support the Government’s proposal or its primary desire to reduce VAT on food, despite, for example, Sweden has a much lower food tax than we have here in Norway. Had the Right Party and the Advance Party, which are the two parties in this Chamber who are most concerned about the growing border trade, really wanted to help get a majority for solutions that can reduce this, I think we should be able to get a signal from these two parties today that they are now willing to support the Government's announced proposal to reduce VAT on food from 23 pst. to 12 pst. Very few countries — if any — have as high a VAT rate on food as Norway, and it is of course no more that tobacco and alcohol taxes should be reduced, as the interpellant argues, than the levy on ordinary foods, rather than on the contrary. A reduction in the food tax would at least help something. Having said that, we must also be willing to take inwards the fact that the level of fees in Norway and Sweden for so-called baits is now very different, and we must do something about that. In such a situation, the difference in the level of charges in Sweden and Norway will be so large that we need to consider doing something about our charging policy. But anyway, this is not the case today. Today, we're going to have a very long way to go with a reduction in the food tax, so here it's the interpellant's party and the Progress Party that sits with the key.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1039	Yes, we're in the middle of the debate on the border trade again, and the Right and Advance Party are as usual high on the track. But I have to ask the question: is it just between the budgetary procedures this is so high priority for the Right? For now, the Right Party and the Advance Party have had the opportunity to lower the fees for, among other things, two years. locust products such as wine, spirits and tobacco, as they have been included in the majority of the budget in the Storting. But nothing has happened. The regulations that have been made are so small that consumers, at least those who travel to Sweden and trade, have not noticed any change at all. The Labour Party agrees that border trade has increased significantly in recent years and that this is a major problem for the most affected states. Eastfold is the county that is hardest hit by the commercial leaks. The size has gradually become so large that we have to take the border trade seriously. We cannot have a completely different charging policy in relation to our neighbouring countries, but that is what is now happening. We in Eastfold see it as natural and desirable that there be some cross-border trade, but the unilateral cross-border trade that we see now has developed in recent years is no longer just a local challenge for border municipalities. It is a regional and national problem. Of course, we can discuss the extent of the border trade, but here we are talking about thousands of jobs that are lost, is safe. The working party sees that a conversion cannot take place overnight. It must be gradual and planned. This year, the taxes on alcohol will be around DKK 8.5 billion to the community, and we're adding the tobacco taxes, we're up to NOK 15 billion. Even small changes in the tax rates will give a large impact on the income of the community. However, the Labour Party believes that the unilateral, high level of border trade in Sweden cannot continue. For this reason, at the annual conference of the Eastfold Labour Party, Thorbjørn Jagland took the initiative to provide the necessary documentation and analysis of the effects of border trade, given that in Sweden there is a majority in order to reduce alcohol charges even more and further approach the EU level. This work shall be completed until next year's budgetary procedure, i.e. the examination of the budget for the year 2000. It's when the budgets are dealt with, that we have opportunities to do something about this problem. There is little help in talking and raising the voice between budgetary procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1054	First I have to say that I almost got a bit touched when I heard the Council of State talk about the benefits that consumers received both from increased competition and from efficiency. It is not a position that this government has particularly raised in the discussion of what is in the interests of consumers. But it's good to know that the government is coming after that point! So to the question of food tax: isn't it shown that a reduction in food tax as such would be very beneficial especially for those groups of employees who already have low purchasing power? When the Right Party and the Advance Party go against the proposals the Government has suggested that they want to join in this context, it is precisely because they want to force other changes in agricultural policy, which in Norway are so protected to the degree that it will be a shellhouse by the Government to try to bring down the food tax when there are actually other measures that need to be taken to make Norwegian agriculture more efficient. So to the Labour Party, which allows itself to say that the Progress Party should not go high on the track in the border trade debate because they have had the opportunity through two budgetary agreements – in a subsidiary way – to do something about it: Yes, but we have! If there is something we have stressed in the budget negotiations, it is precisely to avoid charging increases on some of the key baits in Norway. However, the Labour Party has not in any way contributed to a reduction in the level of charges in Norway. And when you stand here and boast unhindered that Thorbjørn Jagland now suddenly has an ambition to get the fees in Norway down on the European level, I have to say that you don't have to investigate, because it's determined up to several times, by more people. We are aware that we have to reduce the fees! But what the Labour Party representatives do not want to say is that the Labour Party wants to find the impact of these tax reductions by increasing other taxes and taxes, and then we have come equally far because a discussion about reductions in these charges must not only be related to border trade, it must also be related to the individual freedom of people and the choice of products. And if you think that the Nordics are so special about drinking or sucking tobacco that only a one-sided high fee level will be involved in counteracting it, you're obviously mistaken, because in most European countries, you've realized a long time ago that the health element related to this type of product is no longer as relevant as maintaining sky-high taxes on this type of product. In one of the proposals of the Progress Party that has been distributed in the Chamber, we ask the Government in the context of next year's budget to assess the dynamic effects of tax reductions, among others. alcohol and tobacco. In previous questions to the Ministry of Finance about this, it has not been possible to get a particularly good answer. This may be due to the fact that the department has no more than very static models to calculate this. However, statistical central agency has estimated that there are dynamic effects of tax reduction on these products, and I hope that the Council of State is willing to give a positive signal in relation to this type of calculation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1065	It is an important topic that has been addressed by the representative Hernæs in today's inter-pelling debate. I think it is absolutely necessary to reduce the high fees we have on, among other things. tobacco and alcohol. Fortunately, the size did not agree with the strong tax increase imposed on tobacco by the Bondevik Government's proposal for the 1999 budget. Some of those working to reduce the number of smokers in Norway argue strongly to increase tobacco, cigarettes, cigars, etc. This measure does not have the desired effect. Sweden, e.g. are subject to much lower taxes on these products and, nevertheless, tobacco consumption is lower in Sweden than in Norway. Sweden is probably the only nation that has achieved the WHO objective in this area. When the Stortinger dealt with the Action Plan for the reduction of drug use on 1 December 1998, we also discussed the level of taxes on alcoholic beverages. Our high level of taxation means that sales of the wine monopoly are falling, while consumption is increasing. This means that we have a worrying increase in the turnover of smuggling liquor and homeburn, as well as large commercial leakages to, among other things. Sweden. A reduction in the taxes on spirits will, of course, generate less revenue in the treasury per year. the litres sold, but I am convinced that a significant reduction in the taxes on spirits will mean a reduction in illegal sales and an increase in the turnover of our wine monopoly sales. Reduced tax revenue per year in other words, the unit will be compensated by significantly increased turnover in our wine monopoly sales. It is interesting to note that the abstinence movement also has implications for the reduction of the level of fees charged for these products. A working group has been set up to assess the level of the levy on alcoholic beverages. Both tobacco and alcohol are important baits that contribute to the very large trade leakage we have to Sweden today. Border municipalities and border counties are very well aware of this. On a trade trip to Sweden, much lower prices of meat and bottled products will also be recorded. Lower food moms obviously contribute to this, but it's far from the only explanation. I am amazed when I find Norwegian agricultural products in Swedish food dishes at a much lower price than consumers have to pay in Norway. Norwegian cheese is an example. Another example is excellent salamme from Ringstad in Norway. The unit price in Norway is NOK 23.50, in Sweden the same package costs NOK 15.80. I have also registered that the agricultural cooperative sells the surplus production of meat abroad at a price of 5 kroner per day. kilos. We have many challenges in terms of our charging policy and agricultural policy!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1084	I regret the Labour Party's position as Mr. Dalheim expressed when he could not find support for our proposal, but let me be allowed to praise Einar Olav Skogholt. He made a post to which I can join altogether. He also showed in the robberies debate that he has a backbone to go against a policy that helps to destroy Norwegian districts. I hope he does the same thing this time and gets some more from his group. Otherwise, I would like to confirm that I believe that the Council of State minimizes the impact of the trade leakage. And it doesn't get any better when, as I heard in the answer, under the almost praise of the fact that trade is also going the other way, he used the words – as I noted them – ‘insulatedly seen some jobs’. It's a way of saying that at best can be seen as arrogant. These are very many jobs based on the information we have. Then it's the food crumb. That's the only thing the Center Party is talking about – not a word about the food industry that employs 50,000 people and not a word about the problem that Einar Olav Skogholt raised, that the big commercial leakage is probably due to baits where food is not in the forefront. However, the large commercial leakage leads, among other things, to: overproduction of food in Norway, which means that agriculture itself has to bear the costs of exports at very low prices. If it is the case that the Government, which sits with the entire investigative body, can demonstrate that reduced food tax will lead to more purchases in Norway of Norwegian food products, which in turn will lead to less need for agriculture to use its hard-pressed resources to subsidise exports to consumers of other countries, and a corresponding reduction in transfers to agriculture, if there is such an account of the Centre Party, I can promise that even if our people in the financial fraction and associated with the Ministry of Finance also point to the unfortunateness of a differentiated VAT, I will be willing to do what I can. But then it has to be based on seeing the problem this way. If, on the other hand, we try to conduct agricultural negotiations by reducing VAT, if this is the underlying motive for the view of the centre party on this matter, we are not in favour of it. And then finally, the government said he didn't think it appropriate to draw business organisations directly into the project that the government is going to start. I thought I heard State Council Restad say that it might be interesting to hear what HSH, Norway's Lastebilerie Association and the food industry say with 50,000 workers in Norway. Could we know in what form he thinks they could have the opportunity to participate in the process that the Council of State sees for itself?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1095	Within three minutes it won't be possible to say everything that maybe had on your heart now after the posts that have been held, and after the questions that have been asked. However, I have had to register again that Norwegian charging policy, border trade and smuggling are of considerable interest. We've also seen that in the media. And I have been reminded in the debate here today once again that there are some different perceptions about Norwegian charging policy, both in the one area and in the other. I think this debate is difficult enough if you're not going to use Siv Jensen's input to fool it. Introducing the agricultural policy of the Progress Party, which would lead to a disruption of agriculture, I do not think it would serve the debate we are now holding. The fact that trade in food is also part of the picture in the case of border trade cannot be denied. A significant proportion of food products on the Swedish side are sold to Norwegians. And it's a fact that many of those who have had posts today represent parties that have so far recently voted against any proposal to do as any other country, except Denmark, namely to have a lower tax on food than on other goods. Øystein Hedstrøm showed in his contribution to the closure of a meat business. It was a meat business and not a wine monopoly that was closed because of the commercial leakage, and therefore there might have to be reason to hope that there is now disagreement within the Progress Party on the issue of whether one should have as hard a tax on food as we have so far. The answer to that is in a year's time when, hopefully, the Government can bring forward the VAT reform. Kjellaug Nakkim showed that there is not a lack of knowledge, but a lack of action that is the problem. If there is a lack of action, the Right has also been with and lacked action here, as they have not wanted to reduce the food tax. I will continue to insist that there is a lack of concrete knowledge. That the trade leak is there, and that it has a certain amount, there is no doubt about it. That the trade leakage is increasing, there is no reason to doubt either, but the exact extent of it I think it is difficult to have any ideas about. As I said in my main post, we will now try to gain a little more knowledge of this, as we will undertake a study together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. How these organisations, which Hernæs believes should be involved, should be allowed to speak, we will have to assess. But it's clear that everyone who has concrete facts to contribute is welcome with their knowledge. We also have a lot of contacts, so that we're not completely familiar with the numbers that, among other things, the two industries in which Herrnæs mentioned are located. In terms of what it would mean if we were to reduce the Norwegian level of charges down to the Swedish level, there are many figures for that. However, in the revised 1997 national budget – presented by another government, and for which we cannot therefore go a hundred percent well – it was suggested that a reduction in the Norwegian level down to the Swedish level would represent a progeny top for Norway at about 50 %. $5 billion a year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1108	As a result, the interpellation debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1121	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1127	During the debate, Mr Evje has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make an in-depth assessment of the time- and cost-requirement of the administrative procedures of higher education institutions and to propose ways of making them simpler and more effective.’ Ursula Evje – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1135	In the light of the overall consensus expressed during the debate, where the Council of State also announced that he was prepared to follow up the proposal, there is no need to vote on the proposal, and we are therefore drawing it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1140	That is the proposal under case No. 1 to the left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1164	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Inge Wohnung, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 2 by Ursula Evje, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 3, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The proposals have been distributed in the Chamber. Tomas Norvoll – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1181	Only a brief explanation of vote on behalf of the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1, from Inge Wohnning on behalf of the Right, we will vote against if he does not want to turn it into a transmission proposal. The reason for this is that the Council of State gave very clear signals that this would be included in the message, and that it concerns things that the Storting has treated earlier and joined. So to proposal No. 2, from Ursula Evje on behalf of the Progress Party. The intention and position of that proposal is entirely in line with previous decisions taken by the Workers' Party on...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1190	The President will ask for a brief explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1193	We will therefore vote in favour of that proposal. Proposal No. 3, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of SV, we will vote against, as there is a interference in the payroll.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1200	We are going to vote against the proposal from the Right because it is natural that this becomes part of what is to be considered in the recruitment message. With regard to the proposal from the Progress Party, we agree with the intention. We have said this earlier in the context of the reform of competences, but the proposal is so unclear that we cannot vote for it today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1207	With regard to the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right-wing Party must vote against this because it is a proposal of the kind that would have been served before it could be promoted. As regards proposal No: 1, which I have tabled on behalf of the Right, does not give the course of the debate the basis for drawing this proposal. It is a request that this be given particular attention, and it should be taken into account by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1214	As regards proposal No: 1, from the Right, I would recommend the centre parties to vote against it, when the proposer would not turn it into a transmission proposal. The background is that the Council of State has already said that this will come in the communication. As regards proposal No: 3, from the Socialist Left Party, we would also recommend that the representatives of the central parties vote against, on the grounds that Tomas Norvoll also gave. As regards proposal No: 2, from the Progress Party, we also feel that the proposal is so vaguely formulated, even though we have a great sense of intention, that I would recommend that the representatives of the Centre parties vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1223	Then the president assumes we can go to voting. The President proposes that a vote be taken first on the proposal from the Socialist Left, then on the proposal from the Right and then on the proposal from the Progressive Party. Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government in the wage negotiations with government organisations to give priority to teacher groups as part of a policy to ensure future recruitment to the education sector.’ Those who vote in favour of the proposal are asked to stand up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1241	It was against 6 votes – after a bit of sewing from Erik Solheim. If it's possible to be so free, we'll see if this becomes a habit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1244	It's not easy to get up when you're stoned! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1251	The representative doesn't need wings to get up! It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the right: [[Continued merriment in the hall]] ‘The Government asks the Government to emphasise the importance of wage policy as an instrument in the notified action plan for recruitment to the teaching profession.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1267	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party: ‘The Government is asking the Government to develop and implement as soon as possible guidelines for a shortened educational cycle based on secondary school and real-time competence for unskilled teachers and teachers’/school assistants. The training course shall lead to the examination which confers formal competence as a skilled teacher. It shall be possible to take part-time training in addition to a job.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1286	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Bjørn Hernæs, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 3-5, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party That will be a reason for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1298	As regards proposal No: Three, from the Progress Party, we believe that that proposal is covered by Right-wing proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox If, however, the Progress Party wishes to maintain the proposal, I would urge the Right to vote in favour of it. The right will also vote in favour of the proposals. 4 and 5 from the Progress Party. With regard to proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Right, I would encourage not only the Right Members, but a collective Storting to vote for these excellent proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1307	I have some decisive remarks in relation to Bjørn Hernæs' wish. I would recommend that the Labour Party vote against both the proposals from the Right and the proposals from the Progress Party. The justification is given in my contribution to the debate, where I assume that the Government will come back with a comprehensive assessment of the fiscal aspects of border trade in the budget for 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1312	The President will request that reasons be included in the submissions and not in the explanation of vote, and that explanations of vote be made as brief and concise as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1315	One explanation of vote: we maintain our three proposals, on which we wish to put a real voice. I would recommend that the representatives of the Progress Party vote in favour of the proposal No. 1 and 2, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1320	I would like to urge the representatives of the Centre to vote against all the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1325	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote. It is then first voted on the proposals No. 1 and 2, from the right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government, in future budgetary cases before the Storting, to explain the consequences of the Government’s review of trade leakage, job losses and the development of smuggling and other crime at an unchanged Norwegian level of charges.’ 2 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to explain the effects of tax reductions to the Swedish level on trade leakage, workplaces, smuggling and other crime.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1347	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3-5, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide, in the context of the State budget for 2000, estimates showing the dynamic effects of a reduction in the taxes on alcohol and tobacco by 10, 20 and 30 pst respectively. in relation to current rates in relation to border trade.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the consequences of the abolition or reduction of different rates of duty on foreign food, including ROK goods [[processed agricultural products]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the competitive situation of Norwegian Råk goods production in relation to Agenda 2000 and to provide an assessment of the need for similar changes in Norwegian agricultural policy.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1373	Does Carl I. Hagen want the word?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1376	in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the Procedural Party's motion for a resolution on case No. 2, so that when the lamp turned off, my voice was not registered. I allow myself to ask if you can vote again – in the hope that there are others who have made the same mistake that I did.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1383	Then the result of that vote will be 51-51, as far as the President can remember.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1386	That was 52-50. My voice was not registered, and it would be 52-51. But there may have been others who have made the same mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1393	The President has not registered that others have said that they have voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1396	However, I allow myself to suggest that we vote again for safety. At least my voice is not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-15.ana.ud1421e1403	The President probably has a feeling that the result of that vote was different from what you could expect. Since there are no more people who admit that they may have done wrong, it may be a bit difficult on the other hand – but if the room doesn't have anything against it, the president is open for us to take the vote again. – We then go back to voting in case no. 2nd@item: inlistbox It concerns proposal No. 2, from Ursula Evje on behalf of the Progress Party, which is then addressed to voting.
