ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-28.ana.ud838e33	A number of permit applications are available: from President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl on leave on days 3 and 4 November to visit Concordia College and St. Olaf College in the United States after an invitation from the representative of Mr Øystein Djupedal on maternity leave from 1 November to 12 November from the representative Tom Thoresen in the days from 2 November to 4 November to take part in meetings of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg from the Workers' Party Group on the extension to 29 October of the leave of the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave:For the County of Buskerud: Frank Willy LarsenFor the Province of Rogaland: Helga RullestadFor the Province of South Trondelag: Heidi K. LarsenFor the Province of Eastfold: Morten Olsen.3. Frank Willy Larsen is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-28.ana.ud838e95	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 22 October 1999: ‘New State Secretary The State Council of the H.M. King held at the Oslo Castle on 22 October 1999 at 1100 is determined: Deputy-Chairman Jostein Solberg is appointed State Secretary to the Ministry of Labour and Administration with accession on 25 October 1999 at 9.30 a.m. 0800.’» The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative, Siv Jensen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-28.ana.ud838e108	I would like to make a proposal to amend the legislation relating to Section 76 of the Tax Act on special deductions for dependance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-28.ana.ud838e113	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-28.ana.ud838e129	Author Thorvald Steen is one of the 60 writers and artists from all over the world who have addressed Turkish authorities and the world community with a strong call for a political solution to the Kurdish question. He describes his meeting in 1995 with the author Ismail Besikci, who was then in prison. The next day Besikci was going through his 14th trial. He was then sentenced to two years in prison. For what crime? Well, he had written about an assault on a Kurdish woman in a magazine. The crime was extra serious because Besikci had stressed that it was a Kurdish woman. Until recently – when he was released, but for how long, you have to ask yourself – Besikci gave a judgment of 86 years and five months. Besikci is a Turk, but as a defender of the Kurdish rights, he is one of several who represents Turkey's hope, because he sees that the rights of the Kurds are a fundamental prerequisite for Turkey to embark on a democratic path. The 60 intellectuals, following a call from central Kurdish and Turkish authors, say: «Save Turkey from her shame!» Besikci, says Thorvald Steen, discovered the Kurds when he worked at a university in southeastern Turkey. He discovered that they had a language that the textbook told us that the people in the area had forgotten a long time ago. The people were mountain Turks, a people who had existed for 4,000 years, with a living language that has roots back to the old Mesopotamia. The people, the Kurds, are 25-30 million strong, but without a country. The Kurds were promised maritime governance within one year of the Sèvres agreement in 1920. Only three years later, they failed when their territory was divided into four countries. Later, the West has repeatedly failed. Since 1924, Kurdish organisations and publications and the use of Kurdish languages and clothing are prohibited in Turkey. Kurdish revolts have been many of them, but they have been brutally shut down every time. The three military coups of 1960, 1971 and 1980 show who really is governing developments in Turkey, namely the military. Turkey is a country where human rights violations have been many and serious, in which democracy has had shrieks, and in which the Kurdish people have been severely affected. Besikci wrote about the Kurds for the first time in 1969. The following year he lost his job because he wanted to split Turkey, as the court said. Since then he has spent 25 years of his life in prison for having driven separatism. According to the Turkish Constitution, there are no minorities and neither a Kurdish people; it is contrary to a crime to talk about 'the Kurdish people'. I invite you to focus on the Kurdish situation in Turkey, knowing that the Kurds are and have been oppressed in Iraq, Iran and Syria, being second-class citizens in these countries. But as a Kurdish writer from Iraq said at the Bjørnson Festival this summer: in Iraq we are, after all, one of two main people, who have the right to our own language. We're right, wild crops that are being tried to remove, it's just reminding us of the gas attack on Alkaly, but the situation is most critical for our brothers and sisters in Turkey. And there is agreement among the Kurds that the focus now has to be on Turkey, because getting one to a dialogue and a solution here, it will have consequences for the whole Kurdish people wherever they live. Actually, it's about a Turkish problem. The problem lies in the heart of Turkey, in the nationalism of the constitution, which does not recognise the diversity that is within the borders of Turkey. This has legitimized the gross repression of the Kurds. There's been a dirty and bloody war. Since 1984, 30 000 people have been killed, up to 3 million Kurds are refugees in other countries, 5-6 million are internally displaced in Turkey. More than 3,000 villages have been burned and destroyed. One of my Kurdish friends describes the army of the militia as 'the darkness of the night, our hell'. More than 1,000 Kurdish politicians and human rights defenders have been killed on open streets. Many hundreds of people have disappeared. I met the mother of one of them in IHD's office in Istanbul, and I never forget her despair and prayer for help. Turkey has been tried before the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg repeatedly, and sentenced. Recently, there have been 17 cases, and Turkey is convicted in 14 of them. I want to give a voice to a Kurdish friend who describes what it does to a people not to speak their own language. He says that the funds used by Turkish authorities to suppress the active use of Kurdish languages can be snooping, calling for information, imprisonment, torture and killing. All education is in Turkish. The goal is clear: by depriving Kurds of their own language, they will in time be alienated from their own identity, their culture and their peculiarity as peoples. One of the worst crimes committed against the Kurdish people has undoubtedly been to force the Kurds to speak the language of the oppressors, which has led the Kurds to communicate with each other, to write their history and literature in their own language, to be complicated or weakened. The alienation strategy of the Turkish authorities could have created a cuddly Kurdish people, but it didn't work that way. In the 1980s Öcalan entered the Kurdish-political arena in Turkey. My Kurdish friend says that by so clearly standing up against the overpower, demanding Kurdistan back, expressing his Kurdish identity, refusing to accept the ride that was laid on the Kurdish people, demanding fundamental human and cultural rights for the Kurds, Öcalan sprouted into a renewed Kurdish pride. I don't describe Öcalan as a weekend, he has a lot of pigs in the woods, but that's my friend's description of it. The fight of the PKK has not been a Sunday school. There has been no agreement on the PKK strategy among the Kurds. PKK's short-lived story holds blood and terror. That is why the PKK has also received criticism from the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in the sentences against Turkey. But it is a fact that since 1993, the PKK has declared a ceasefire several times without Turkey having come forward. Now Öcalan is in prison, and he has called for a dialogue, a peaceful and democratic solution within Turkey's borders. This he also did in a 7-point peace package last November; he did it on his journey around Western land before he was kidnapped in Kenya. One might mean what one wants about Öcalan, but Turkey and the Allies through NATO can't afford not to try now. This is where my challenge to the Minister of Foreign Affairs comes in. Norway has experience as the initiator of peace processes. The visit next week is a sign of exactly that. Among the Kurds is the strong desire for a peace conference, an arena for dialogue. Some people just need to help get this dialogue started. No country has yet assumed the responsibility to do so, and then I ask: Why not Norway? It's also crucial to bring the United States with us as an important partner, because according to its major-action interests, the United States has held its protective hand over Turkey's military and politicians. But there are also signs that the United States sees the need for change. The visit of the US Secretary of Human Rights to Diyarbakir and the criticism of Turkey's handling of the Kurdish question are such signs. I encourage the Council of State to address this question with Clinton next week. A delegation of eight Kurdish leaders who went into Turkey without weapons to show that the PKK is serious is another sign that the time is now. A grassroots movement in Kurdistan, which manifested itself in a female march from Diyarbakir to Ankara, also shows that. The fact that the liberal employers’ organisation Tusiad is taking up a solution also shows this, and there are also signs from Turkish politicians that they are now seeing that the time is right. Both Ecevit and Demirel were visiting Diyarbakir and said that something had to be done when it came to investments. They were there met by people with white flags. Turkey will enter the good company in the EU. It's time for a solution that guarantees the Kurds rights as people within Turkey's borders. If this option is not used, then there will be disappointed and frustrated Kurds who again experience the West failing them and who will then resort to extreme methods. There are several people who are waiting anxiously for the Foreign Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-28.ana.ud838e159	It is estimated that today there are between 20 and 25 million Kurds spread over six countries in Europe and the Middle East. Around half of them live in Turkey, but Iran and Iraq also have large Kurdish minorities – Syria too, as the representative of Valle was. It is difficult to refer to the Kurdish population as a single, homogeneous group. Language and religion vary. Several attempts to form an overall political movement have stranded. The situation of Kurds is therefore complicated. Nevertheless, most of the Kurds have a common history and sense of identity that makes them referred to as a group. The representative Valle is concerned about the Kurdish situation in its full breadth, but focuses mainly on the interpellation of the Kurds in Turkey. It is also the government's view that the potential to improve the situation of the Kurds is greatest here. The basis for a broad human rights commitment to Turkey is, in my opinion, better than ever. In Ankara there is a government with an explicit willingness to reform, as the representative Valle also referred to through the reference to Prime Minister Ecevit and President Demirel's visit to South-East Turkey. Turkey’s desire to be linked to Europe and the EU increases its motivation to look at these problems. We have worked out an insight from Norway and a contact network that enables us to engage. However, international reports continue to demonstrate serious violations of human rights in Turkey. The restrictions on political activity, and in particular the estimates of freedom of expression, remain a serious problem. In the south-east parts of the country, the state of emergency has not yet been lifted. The conditions for freedom of expression and assembly are particularly weak in these areas. We believe that the time has come to suspend the state of emergency in the six remaining provinces of the south-east. The judicial system, and then I think, among other things. on anti-terrorism legislation and the Security Courts, the standard we must expect from a Member State of the Council of Europe is not yet met. The actions against the PKK and the government's settlement strategy, which have particularly affected the Kurdish population, have led to violations of economic, social and cultural rights. That being said, it has to be added that we see a slow improvement in the human rights situation, especially in the last year. According to Amnesty International, the number of so-called alarms is falling. Our embassy in Turkey reports that the situation now also feels easier for the people of the south-east. The new Parliament in Turkey has adopted several legislative reforms. These include, inter alia: the composition of the national security courts, increased penalties for torture and amnesty of persons imprisoned for written statements. It is important that these positive trends are also noted by the international community. However, there is still a distance between expressed will and practical action in respect of human rights. Clearly, several of the human rights violations committed are due to attitudes that cannot be resolved overnight. They are also due to structural features of the Turkish constitution. At the same time, it must be added that the PKK, the Kurdistan Labour Party, is responsible for terrorist attacks that have created horror far outside Turkey, to which the representative Valle also referred. Norway has repeatedly argued that the minority rights of Kurds must be respected. We are expressing this directly to the Turkish authorities as well as to the international forums. That's an opinion we share with most other countries. At the same time, we know that Turkish authorities do not recognise Kurds – or, for that matter, other population groups in the country – as national minorities, with the rights it entails. Instead, they have agreed to see how the individual rights of the Kurds can be strengthened as part of the democratization of the entire Turkish society. This also applies to the economic and social rights of the Kurds. We have noticed that, earlier this week, both the Turkish President and the Prime Minister, as the representative Valle referred to, visited the areas of south-east Turkey and, in view, made increased efforts to rebuild this part of the country, which has been plagued by 15 years of unrest and conflict. Norway has developed a significant knowledge of the conduct of living conditions surveys in different parts of the world and has gained recognition for this work. Such studies, carried out jointly with the host country’s authorities and institutions, have proved useful in the planning of social, political and economic development. This is one of the things that has been behind the Oslo process in the Middle East, among other things. Monitoring the living conditions of vulnerable and marginalised groups is also a contribution to increasing respect for human rights. In cooperation with the research foundation Fafo, we are now looking at the possibilities for such a study in Turkey, possibly. in cooperation with the United Nations Development Programme. We hope that the Turkish authorities can see themselves served by such cooperation, and would like to be part of it. Another possible area of cooperation with Turkey could be child labour, which still has a certain extent in the country. This field is known as a high priority for the Government and, on the Turkish side, there has been a positive development in recent years that strengthens children's rights. Such cooperation should also aim at strengthening international legislation in this field. The government also wants to continue the human rights dialogue with Turkey. A number of visits, particularly by the then Deputy Minister of State Ecevit to Norway in the autumn of 1997, by Minister of Foreign Affairs Cem in the spring, as well as the visit of the Norwegian Minister of Human Rights to Ankara and South-East Turkey last autumn, have built up the political basis for this dialogue. That's why human rights were also an important topic in my own conversations in Turkey two months ago. This is also the background to the fact that the Government has now invited the new Turkish Minister of Human Rights to Norway. As part of the dialogue, Norway has, among other things, supported human rights organisations in Turkey. We have supported centres for torture victims run by the Turkish Human Rights Fund, visits and contacts between the Norwegian and Turkish prison services and a conference on the human rights in Turkey under the auspices of the Istanbul and Amnesty International Bar Association. Our support for the Medical Association's seminars in Izmir last year and in Diyarbakir this year can also be mentioned. It is important to stress that our commitment to human rights in Turkey in general has a positive effect on the Kurds as well. The Kurdish population is scattered throughout the country, although the main gravity is in the south-east. By supporting the bodies of the Council of Europe, Norway is actively working with a number of other countries to exert pressure on Turkish authorities in matters of freedom of expression and human rights. The Council of Europe's commitment to the trial of PKK leader Öcalan is a good example. The work of the Council of Europe on strengthening the knowledge of human rights among Turkish police officers should also be mentioned in particular. We have considered the issue of a peace conference on the situation of the Kurds. This must be based on the fact that there is a real political desire in those countries that have a Kurdish minority population. Of course, from the Norwegian side, we would be positive about contributing actively if the conditions for such a conference were to be present. So far, we must note that this is not the case. The government wants to help raise the attention of the Kurds’ situation as a whole. However, the Kurds constitute a minority not only in Turkey but also in five other countries in the region. We must therefore have realistic expectations of what we can achieve. However, giving new nourishment to the aspirations of a Kurdish state is not desirable in the view of the Government. In particular, it will put an end to what is most important, namely achieving concrete results in the field and improving the situation of disadvantaged people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-28.ana.ud838e204	I thank you for your answer. I record that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and we, and also many Kurds, share views on developments in Turkey now. We agree that there are points of light in the Turkish politicians, but at the same time we agree that there are still serious violations of Kurds' rights in Turkey. What is very important is precisely what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, that the Kurds are not recognized as their own people in the Turkish constitution, as is being done in the other countries where they are located. What I thought was one of the most positive things in what the foreign minister said, was trying to get life-cycle studies started, so you can get processes going. But I wasn't very satisfied with the answer to the question of the possibility of organising a peace conference. In 1995, Belgium took the initiative to bring the parties together. At that time it was not so successful, but now there are so many signals that it may be possible to organise a peace conference, that it should be tried. It's not about this working for the recognition of Kurdistan as a country of its own. All Kurdish leaders, including Öcalan – and his significance is great – say that this is about recognising the Kurds as their own people within the borders of Turkey, in the same way that we have recognized together as our own people. In such a work, it is also important to recognise the Kurdish National Congress that was now formed in ours, which consists of all parties except Barzani's KDP. That's important, because this Congress says this is about recognising the Kurds' rights as people, but within the limits that exist today. Therefore, as part of the process, I would urge the Council of State to take an initiative to recognise the National Congress, as Norway once recognised the PLO, which was an important way to the solutions it has reached today in the case of the Palestinians.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-28.ana.ud838e217	Let me first say that I'm happy with Valle's tone, to say it like this. I think we can have a good dialogue here on a question that we're all very concerned about. And I fully accept that the representative is not entirely satisfied with everything I have said. I very much agree with the representative in what she said in her first speech about the danger of what we have already seen, namely the radicalisation of the Kurds and Kurdish groups because of the lack of respect for the Turkish authorities. I think it's real, we see it everywhere. And some of what I've pointed out to Turkish authorities is that it should be in their own interest to meet some of the Kurdish demands that are perceived as legitimate by the international community, which are adopted, for example. in international human rights instruments. This is something we'll keep working on. With regard to the question of whether the Kurds should be recognised as a people of their own, it is a big problem. From the Norwegian side, we will continue to stand on our principle position and say that the Kurds must have minority rights. At the same time, in my conversations I have really met this as a blockage that makes it very difficult to move on. Now, this isn't just a problem in Turkey. We should bear in mind — and of course Turkish authorities — that France does not recognise minority groups and minority people either. They are also criticised for this, for example. in the Council of Europe. But anyway, most of us would say that the people of France have completely different rights to what we think they have in Turkey. The question is, how do we attack this? We're going to maintain our principles, our attitude, but we still have to look at how we can push this forward. One possibility that we're now looking at is just to further develop the French model with individual rights. There we have received a more positive feedback from the Turkish authorities, which they may be willing to look at. We will continue to work on that. In the case of a peace conference, I did not say in my post that I opposed it. So let's think about this a little bit more. The representative, Valle, also had some concrete suggestions in his first post on how to discuss this with the United States – I would like to do that. But I think it is very important that, before we convene such a conference, we must have positive signals not only from the Kurds, but also from the Turkish authorities. What's been successful with our Middle East process is that we've just been able to get along with both sides. I would therefore like to say today, although I am in principle in favour of continuing to work on the issue of a peace conference before we can say that we should convene it, because today it can be seen more as a problem than as a solution attempt.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-28.ana.ud838e228	In a debate on human rights in Kurdish areas on 2 June 1997, Haakon Blankenborg said, among others: the following: ‘The trainers were wrong and have been wrong when the Middle East and otherwise the world national states have been designed. It is their historical record.’ This is how the fate of Kurdistan and Kurdistan can be described quite accurately. The Kurds are scattered across a land area that covers several countries and crosses a number of national borders. And to all intents and purposes, it is not exactly the world's most well-developed democracies that belong to the Kurdish peoples: Iran, Iraq, Syria, Turkey and the former Soviet Union. Neither fundamentalist Iran nor Saddam Hussein's Iraq can be said to be particularly pluralistic. Brutal repression in Iran and the use of chemical weapons against Kurds in Iraq are well known from the media in recent years. The situation in Northern Iraq is also partly a consequence of the fact that the international community has ‘shared’ Iraq. Large parts of Syrian Kurds are internal refugees or ‘displaced persons’. Nevertheless, the situation of the Kurds needs to be resolved within existing borders, as the individual Kurdish groups themselves are increasingly acknowledging. We need to discuss and work on the problems of the Kurds as a human rights problem. Kurds must be guaranteed elementary political and cultural rights and must be protected against abuses and violations of their own identity. We must never become passive witnesses of the abuses against the Kurdish population in Turkey. And I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the basis for a broad human rights commitment to Turkey is better than ever. We will use both our NATO channels and Turkey's knocking on the doors of the EU to develop a critical dialogue with a state that plays an increasing political role both in its neighbourhood and in the Caucasus and Central Asia. Among other things, the Cyprus conflict will never be resolved without Turkey, and we should know to take advantage of the signals that have come about the willingness to change the legal system in that country, and clearly to say that the standard does not yet meet the objectives of Turkey as a Council of Europe country. Then I think we should welcome what can best be called a 'postearthquake diplomacy' between Turkey and Greece, and also the dialogue between the EU and Turkey. Because what's happening here can change the climate in the whole area. It also means that the basis for both changing the situation of the Kurds and addressing and changing the human rights situation in general can be significantly better as a result of this beautiful and improved climate. Finally, in the case of Öcalan, from the Labour Party side, we will categorically establish that the death penalty is completely unacceptable no matter which regime uses it. Turkish authorities must also be clearly informed of this. Otherwise, we are largely going to end up with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-28.ana.ud838e246	The problems surrounding the rights of ethnic and cultural groups will always be the subject of weighing. These questions may concern cultural rights or more historical rights to specific territories. It may also be a question of who will manage the resources, such as: land and water. These issues are of such a nature that it would not be appropriate for Norway to take concrete measures which are to be regarded as normative within the borders and territory of Turkey. Regardless of this, of course elementary human rights will always be something to be guaranteed, regardless of religion, culture or ethnic divisions. In this context, it is important to point out that human rights are related to the individual human being and not to the belonging of groups or geographical areas. As a result, Norway’s work on human rights will also be important in relation to other countries. Opposing a violation of elementary human rights is an important contribution and a prerequisite for protecting individuals from an overriding state authority. Equally important is the individual’s right not to be subjected to terror or to the fear of reprisals from another party to the conflict. One cannot make a different assessment of abuse based on which party has the best and most high-value reasons for its abuse of power. Dialogue is essential in order to find a good and lasting solution to conflicts, irrespective of the content, size and scope of the conflicts. Nevertheless, I would argue that the representative of Valle's wish for a peace conference to solve the Kurdish problems testifies to a great deal of faith in the effectiveness of conferences. The fact that the parties come together is desirable, but one might also wonder whether this should always be done under Norwegian law. Perhaps we should focus on the missions that Norway has already undertaken. Even Norway has limitations on what resources, human and economic, we can make ourselves available to solve all other countries and people's problems. That's why we should get together on the problems we've already done, and solve them in the best possible way. Nobody's earned that we're taking on so many missions that for that reason we can't meet the challenges it involves solving them. As a consequence, the Progress Party will not without further support that Norway undertakes to settle, whether within or outside Turkish borders.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-28.ana.ud838e264	In spite of the great state visit and much uprising, where Israel is on the agenda, I will claim, as I have said before, that the Kurdish question is really the Middle East problem. 1st@item: inlistbox The Kurds are many. They have fought a resistance struggle and a bloody civil war for decades, they have lost and lost, and they still lack basic rights such as freedom of speech and training in their own languages and culture. The situation is really scary. There are several million internally displaced people in Turkey, and 3,000 burnt villages represent tragedy and violations of human rights on an enormous scale. Turkey is also being convicted in the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg, repeatedly. Frustration is great, also among exiles in Europe. We need an initiative to have a dialogue between the government and the Kurdish leaders, not least in Turkey, where the potential for an improvement is, after all, the greatest, as the Foreign Minister rightly pointed out. It is not unmistakable that the situation comes out of control if this great people feel forgotten by the world community. There may also be consequences in the Western world that are not pleasant to think about. I am positive that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will be tempted to start a life-cycle investigation in the Kurdish areas of Turkey. It will give added attention to the violations of human rights that take place there, and it will give us knowledge of the state of an area that has experienced very tough times. I hope a project like this can be started quickly. It's also important that one constantly raises human rights issues with Turkey, and that it happens in such a way that it also becomes known to exiled Kurds. They need to know that they're not forgotten; I think that's very important. Turkish regimes want an approach to Europe, and are therefore more responsive to the demands to respect human rights. In the Council of Europe, Turkish parliamentarians have gone a long way in criticising their own government and their treatment of the Kurds, and that is new. I believe, like the interpellant, that the time is ripe for a peace conference on the Kurdish question. Norway cannot, of course, be alone in this initiative, but may be driven by the need for political solution to this tragic conflict to the countries with Kurdish minority populations. If we get Turkey to such a peace conference, we're on the right track, and I'm glad that the Foreign Minister will bring this up. We cannot give up hope for a dialogue and a peaceful solution to this evil conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-28.ana.ud838e281	A conflict always has two sides, at least, and so does it. There is no disagreement here in this Chamber that Norway should continue to support the Kurds’ demands for respect for itself, their identity, their culture and their language. But we should also support and understand Turkey's demands for respect for the borders of its country. There is a lot to say about democracy in Turkey, and a lot has rightly already been said about this today. It is far from perfect, but it is, after all, a democracy, in sharp contrast to Iraq, Syria and Iran, which are the other major countries with Turkish populations. Therefore, I think that the interpellant is getting a little wrong when – as I read the interpellation text – she gives the impression that the situation is almost worst in Turkey. What she might think is what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, namely that the potential for furthering the work of human rights towards both Kurds and other national minorities is greatest in Turkey. But I think it's important in a conflict like this that you have to have a peace-making role, as the interpellant wants, but as I doubt it's most natural for Norway to assume, you have to be very precise in your balance and not give the impression that you're more on one side than the other. That was probably the most successful thing about Norway’s role as a peace contributor in the Middle East. I was a member of the Council of Europe myself one day during the trial against Öcalan, and it was a strong experience. I heard one of his great defense figures, and it was obvious that here we are dealing with one eventually very wise and experienced man. His starting point was to admit and acknowledge the appeal, and therefore he would have nothing to do with his defenders; the defense he took himself off. He came, as I experienced it, with a strong message to the outside world and to the Turkish authorities that a new beginning was needed first and foremost, using this opportunity to create democracy and respect for human rights for all groups in Turkey, which we naturally support in Norway. Nor do I forget the representatives of the families of the victims who were present in the courtroom, killed in Turkish flags and with pictures of their deaths. This shows a nation that has a big problem, which I don't think we should believe is easy to solve. I consider Turkey's application for EU membership to be one of the most peace-making and most hope-giving, and I could be tempted to ask both the inter-pellant and the foreign minister if they do not share the view that in precisely the EU's application, precisely in the gulf between Greece and Turkey, which Nybakk was in, there is some of the germ that we hope can be realized within a short time, namely that there will also be respect for both Kurds and other minorities in Turkey and the rest of the region.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-28.ana.ud838e292	In the wake of Kurd leader Abdullah Öcalan's arrest, the Kurdish question has again been put on the agenda. The Turkish authorities claim that this is the end of a long fight against terrorism and violence. I guess that's what we all wanted was the reality, but it's hard to believe. The Kurdish question will not be resolved until the Kurdish people have equal social rights and the possibility of a dignified life in their immediate environment. It is a cruel repression that has taken place in Turkey, with branches to Iraq, Iran and Syria. In Turkey many Kurds live as farmers in the mountains. They have not been allowed to use their own language or culture. Social arrangements are absent. As a result of the persecution of the Kurds, who have remained since 1984, 3,000 villages have been burned and as many as 3 million Kurds are believed to be on the run in their own country. Now it's time to find a peaceful solution to this tragedy, that the Kurds are helped so that they can come back to their territories and use their own language and culture. It is not up to you to create your own country. What you have to work for is that they can have a separate arrangement. This could be done, for example, by: happen in line with what we've given together through the whole thing. Norway may be an important contributor to such a negotiation process. Norway has played an active role in the Middle East conflict. There will be no peace in the Middle East until the Kurdish question has found its solution. It is therefore important that Norway takes an active role in these issues as well. In the past, Norway has taken the initiative of an international conference on the rights of the Kurds on the initiative of the former Central Party representative, Tove Kari Viken, who was also the one who started the support committee for the Kurds on the Stortinget. The conference was held in Oslo, and further work was agreed on with a view to a political solution to the Kurdish problems. The Turkish Human Rights Organisation, with Akin Birdal at its head, was actively involved. Since then, we know that he was subjected to an attack and a severe wound. After that, he has been arrested and put in Turkish prison for his work as a human rights champion. Still, as we know, there are very many political prisoners in Turkish prisons. Amnesty International has just had this year's TV collection, and Turkey is one of the countries where the documented abuses are many. Turkey now has an opportunity to correct the treatment of its citizens. I therefore support Mr Valle's initiative for a peace conference in which the Kurdish question can be discussed in a wider context with a view to a solution. Norway should take such an initiative. We have our own Minister of Human Rights, we have leadership in the Middle East negotiations, we have had a Kurdish conference in the past and can follow up on what we laid the foundations for. Such a conference must take place after agreement has been reached between the countries that have had a significant Kurdish population. Norway has to seek broad support in other European countries in order to join Turkey in such a peace negotiation. The Council of Europe has had clear opinions on these issues. Various organisations and individuals have also committed themselves to the Kurds. Now it is time for political weight in the form of a peace process, both to secure the future of the Kurds and to create a better climate between Turkey and the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-28.ana.ud838e314	This has been a debate in which I perceive that there is a great deal of consensus that something needs to be done now and that the time has come for something to be done. I think it's important to stress that you should get some way, the Kurds must be recognized as a people of their own. Some of the damage to the Kurds is that they have not been allowed to express themselves in their own language. I referred to my friend, who says that the language is the pain of the Kurds, but also the most important marker when they identify their chastity – the very symbol of a Kurdish identity. Therefore, the work to solve the Kurdish problem is not just a human rights issue. That is also the case, but at the same time it is to recognise the Kurds as a people of their own and to guarantee them political and democratic rights. Therefore, the situation is different in Turkey than in the other countries. We're not going to minimize it, too much of the germ of the problems both for Turkey and for the Kurds is that they're not recognized as a people of their own. Annelise Höegh experienced Öcalan. I believe that what Öcalan has taken is part of giving opportunities to solve the problem peacefully. It is an important and wise role he has now taken on. So I think it's right that it's possible to do something in an EU application time. But the danger is that Turkey will once again be incorporated into the good company, and that they will continue to break elementary human rights. What I think is very good in the Foreign Minister's answer is that he stressed the need to go in now and start living conditions studies in the Kurdish areas. As the representative Anita Apelthun Seele said, there are still opportunities to gain more knowledge, keep up the knowledge, and make it possible to get to processes. After the foreign minister's second reply to me regarding the peace conference, I have greater hope that it can be possible. Of course you have to bring all the parties together. I encourage the Foreign Minister to work on it as well as to press Turkey to lift the death sentence against Öcalan.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-28.ana.ud838e331	I agree with Mr Valle that this is an important debate. And I think this is probably a debate we'll come back to, also several times, maybe unfortunately, because we're not able to find a solution in the very short term. The representative Valle says that the time has come to do something. I returned in my reply to the representative, Valle, on 24 February, and already then I assured the representative, Valle, that we had both started doing something, and that we were still going to do something. And we've actually done that later. That means that it's not just every time we're called the Storting, that we're doing something, that we're also trying to do something in between. But I don't want to create the big expectations that this will find a quick solution. I have referred to a life-cycle study as an appropriate tool. But once again, we have to remember that we have to bring with us Turkish authorities if this living conditions survey is to be carried out, and that is a problem. It has not been received with any special joy in Turkey, but we are also working on that matter. As far as the peace conference is concerned, I promise that I will follow it up. But as the representative Nymo was involved, such a peace conference also requires cooperation, and it becomes important for us in a way that we can lay the foundation for such cooperation. I think, as I was also concerned with my answer, and as several others have pointed out, that Turkey's situation in general in relation to Europe is important. I also believe that the process we are now looking forward to towards the EU Summit and a possible candidate situation for Turkey is one of our active uses. That's why, in addition to the general work we've done, and what we've already started vis-à-vis Turkey in the past, we've now started some extra measures, both in terms of contact with politicians, and in terms of contact with non-governmental organisations, just to engage in a dialogue with Turkish politicians and groups to make our wishes visible, our opinions, and perhaps also to gain a greater understanding of the political environment in Turkey for what is our concern. We hope that we will also reflect in contacts with Stortinget and its representatives. And I think there, as I was concerned, that the general human rights dialogue is one of the most important things for the rights of the Kurds, because it is through general training in the field of human rights and the importance of human rights that one can also guarantee greater rights for the Kurds within at least Turkish society, if that is what we are talking about now in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-28.ana.ud838e344	Then the treatment of the interpellation has changed. Before we move on to the agenda, the President will inform that the vote on item No. 2 has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-28.ana.ud838e362	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-28.ana.ud838e370	Then we're ready for voting. Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-28.ana.ud838e393	There is no record.
