ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e48	The representatives of Gunnar Halvorsen, Anne Britt Stråtveit, Bjørn Hernæs and John Dale, who have been authorized, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seat: For the Vest-Agder counties: Rolf Terje Klungland. For Hordaland County: Gard Folkvord. For Oslo: Anders C. Sjaastad. For the Rogaland County: Toril Haaland Horpestad. For Eastfold County: Morten Olsen. Three permit applications are filed: from the representative of Siri Frost Sterri on leave 26 January to attend the meeting of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee in Brussels from Hans J. Røsjorde on leave from 2 February to 4 February to attend the North Atlantic Assembly in the United States from the representative Jan Tore Sanner on leave today 3 and 4 February to attend the Energy Policy Conference on Sanderstølen. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications will be examined immediately and accepted.2. The following alternates will be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Akershus County: Julie Christiansen.For Hordaland County: Terje Søviknes.For Sør-Trøndelag County: Michael Momyr.3. Terje Søviknes and Michael Momyr are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Hans J. Røsjorde and Siri Frost Sterri.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e131	Michael Momyr is here and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e136	The President will propose that a President-in-Office be elected for the meeting in the interior week – and see it as agreed. The President is asking for proposals to the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e141	I suggest Ursula Evje.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e146	There are suggestions about Ursula Evje as president. There are no other proposals, and Ursula Evje is elected as chairman of the meeting for the current week.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e160	I would like to make a request to the Labour Party that the presentation presented by Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Labour Party be forwarded to the Financial Committee so that it can be dealt with together with the Document No. The 8-proposal submitted on the same subject. We agree on what is in the presentation from Tore Nordtun. When I ask for this, it is simply to save time, so that we can implement it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e165	The proposal by the undersigned on behalf of the Workers' Party was submitted on 13 January and was discussed at Odelstinget on 21 January. On the same day, a Document No was presented from the centre of the game. 8-proposals which actually apply the same, introducing the old freight balancing system as soon as possible. We therefore agree with the first part of the content. Subject to parallel examination within the Committee, we may, in order not to delay this matter, follow the request for the proposal to be forwarded to the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e170	No more people have asked for the word. The President will then return to the procedure of voting later today. [[Footing, see page 1657]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e188	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1657]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e204	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1657]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e218	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 10 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to 3 lines with replies from the main speakers for each party group and from the parliamentary leaders, as well as 5 lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e229	The Bondevik government received its first ownership message in return from Stortinget. We got St.meld. No 40 for 1997-98 as a substitute, and that is what we are going to be finally considering in the light of the Innst. S. No 77 for 1998-99. The attitude is that the bulk of the population, consisting of the government fraction, the Progress Party and the Right, have a greater degree of impatience than what the Government and the Minister of Industry have stated in the Communication on the organisation of better framework conditions for Norwegian business within what has to do with ownership. Not least the remarks that lead to the government's treatment of the flat tax investigation, and in particular property taxes, bear bids that something may be happening in government circles. It appears from the comments made by the Party of Advancement, Government Parties and Right on matters such as public and private ownership and the chapter on the State's ownership and regulatory role that impatience is present, although the Government parties do not support the proposal of the Party of Advancement and the Right to remove the property tax by 2002. The Workers' Party has its own comments and proposals for these chapters in its configuration and will present them in its submissions. There is an overall committee that points to the importance of stimulating active private ownership as an important premise for the establishment of profitable businesses throughout the country. One of the main challenges in the future will be to strengthen the capital supply of enterprises, in particular in terms of access to equity. The most important source of building up equity in enterprises is the retention of profits. It is therefore clear that the framework conditions adopted in this Chamber are crucial for the equity situation in Norwegian enterprises. In this context, it is very important to bear in mind that the framework conditions we define, for example: the taxation of ownership through the taxes on wealth has a level that does not place Norwegian ownership in a worse situation than that of its competitors. So a few words about public ownership. The state ownership of Norwegian businesses is significant and certainly larger than in any of the countries we like to compare with. The state owns a little over half of all Norwegian businesses. Of course, this large state ownership binds a lot of capital in individual companies, and it increases the risk of conflict between the state as an investor on the one hand and the state as a regulator on the other. For a great many of the companies in which the state is located on the owner's side, there was originally a reason for state involvement that made sense there and there. Many of these state establishments also put their right behind them. The question that has to be asked today by the state is whether the reason for the state involvement is still present. If it is not, such as for Telenor's part, yes, then at least a partial privatisation should be made or sold more or less, possibly completely out. If you don't, that means you're too exposed to exposure in a limited area and maybe even in a single business. Another element in the assessment of whether to sell government shares in companies with 100 pst. owned by the State, is the fact that the State has a small safe scale on how well-run these companies are, when you don't have an exchange price to look at. This may lead to lower awareness of costs and, in the next round, reduces the competitiveness of companies, thereby reducing their value. There is no doubt that the monitoring of business by the financial market is a constant incentive for the efficient and profitable operation of listed companies. In the agreement for the annual budget, a partial privatisation of Telenor was agreed. This is an example of a company in which the original state justification for ownership exposure is passed too far. The logical consequence of this has already been the bulk of the population, and more and more people share this view, as far as I have registered. The next company that should have a proper review by the state as its owner is Statoil. When the Norwegian oil adventure started, the establishment of the company was well justified by the situation we were in at the time with regard to both the situation of competence and competition in relation to what was then the case. The question we have to ask ourselves today is whether the original reason is still present. In my and Right vision, it's not that. We should now engage in a prejudice-free debate on the role of the state in the Norwegian oil industry and see whether the exposure is adapted to the desired risk exposure. In such a debate, we should consider how best to ensure the values of the Norwegian people on the seabed along our long-distance coast. It could be thought that there were safer and better ways to manage these non-renewable resources than through a state-wide whole-time Statoil. So some words about the ownership and regularity role. It is today that both the ownership role and the regular role are often exercised by the same department. Criticisms have been raised against the ministry from a number of quarters about the mixing of these roles. I'm not going to decide here whether the critics are right or not, but just state that the government has also noticed this criticism, and that in itself may be a first step towards doing something. In order to take a topical matter, Telenor, it might have been natural for the Minister of Economic Affairs – as in Sweden for Telia – to have managed the ownership interests of the state and that the Minister of Transport had still managed the regulatory role in the telecommunications sector. This should also be borne in mind by competitors and competition in the telecommunications market. The Government Parties and the Advance Party and the Right consider that the State should consider bringing together all the State holdings in one department. I hope that the Council of State will take note of this and follow it up. So a few words about private ownership. The design of the tax system is of great importance for the scope of active, private and national ownership. In the right, it is important to use the tax system to achieve what we all want, namely a broad and competent private ownership. In such a context, taxes on wealth is the keyword itself. When private ownership is weaker in Norway than is the case for our closest competitors, it also has — not only but also — to do with taxes on the value of food. Property taxes are and will become taxes on savings, and fewer and fewer countries use this form of taxation. We cannot look at Norwegian ownership conditions without looking at what are the conditions in other countries. Of course, Norwegian owners should not be discriminated against in respect of ownership, as is the case today. I really hope that the Minister of Industry will get involved when the Government is going to start working on the investigation on flat tax. The formation of equity in enterprises is greatly influenced by the framework conditions we adopt, by which taxes we impose on enterprises. It is therefore gratifying that the government parties in the Committee setting together with the Advance Party and the Right formulate the following: ‘The majority assumes that the reduction or removal of property taxes will make a significant contribution to strengthening Norwegian private ownership in business and assumes that the Government also takes this into account in the overall assessment of a flat tax system.’ This is, if it is followed up, what is needed to ensure that Norwegian private ownership avoids the negative discrimination experienced today. What is the argument that the Government today cannot have such an ambition? The Minister of Economic Affairs will probably give an answer to this later on. If Sponheim wants a bava over himself as Minister of Industry, and I don't ignore it, he'll just make sure that the wealth tax on nutrient wealth disappears as soon as possible. The government's review of the flat tax investigation and the large majority's reference to property taxes should be the best foundation for such a building. What is needed is an engagement on the part of the Minister of Industry. Here in the hall he knows that he has alliance partners. Another area of tax policy that affects private business, and since family businesses in particular, is the inheritance tax. For many family businesses, this often becomes so heavy that you choose to sell out. The right considers that the sum of the inheritance tax and the document fee for generation change in family businesses is too high. I hope that the selection that the Government has put down to look at this, will soon conclude, and that the Government will do something operational as soon as possible. One way to view this with inheritance tax is to have other rates of taxation on enterprises and means of production in relation to more liquid inheritances. If we're going to set up profitable businesses from land to land, we have to get into the situation that it's going to be interesting to start businesses. It has to be that it becomes more interesting for young people to start a business than to get a firm job. We need entrepreneurs, we need founders, we need people on the move. It's our responsibility to add the right tools so that these people can do what we all want, that's to start a business. I hope the processing of this big message is a contribution in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e279	The president asked whether the representative had intended to address the proposal put forward by the Right and the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e282	I thought I'd be generous and let the biggest party get to promote it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e287	All right! It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e292	In a note, the Right Party and the Progress Party have emphasised that stronger private ownership is a commitment to vitalising Norwegian business and stimulating increased product and nutrition development. The main weight of Norwegian business is characterised by a structure of small and medium-sized enterprises, many of which have a common lack of capital and skills to achieve significant product and business development beyond today’s level. And it's right here that they need public support to move on. Would it not have been more appropriate to highlight the need for interaction between the public and private economic operators in order to create innovation than to create the impression that the state is an obstacle? Or is it so to understand that Right believes that Norwegian business is doing better without the supported state providing through various support schemes, such as the Technical Institute, the Norwegian Design Council, the Norwegian Export Council, NORTRA, etc., as well as the monthly nutrition research carried out under public law? That's actually the reason why Right was a driver to put down the company's guidance service. I understood it so on the Right that they wanted us to get more founders. Then it must also be possible to see that a support device is needed to get up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e301	The message we have for treatment today is primarily a statement of ownership. There is a communication on how the public can facilitate a solid Norwegian ownership, and in particular this is important for us in Norway, where private ownership is, in fact, the weakest compared to all countries in Europe. As far as the Tveiten issue is concerned, if it would not have been more important for the Right to look at all the tools we have for business start-ups, the interaction between government and public and this with research, I would say that one does not exclude the other. Both NORTRA, the Export Council, TI and all that fine ballet have had the support of Höre. It's not that the right has in any way suggested erasing these. It is clear that these support measures are important to initiate new businesses, but the most important thing is that we have a foundation for the enterprises that, after all, are doing well in this country. It is so much easier to have a headshot and a development based on these companies than to use large resources to get on the legs of new jobs. But that doesn't mean you're going to do one or the other. The most important thing is and will be to take care of the diversity of business that we have of both large and small businesses. Secondly, it is important that we use resources to initiate new business. Not least in research, we are far behind. There are few, I was about to say, in this room that has a lot to boast of. We're way back here. And if we're going to meet the situation that will arise when the oil age goes to the end, it's important that we put research in place today. It's a challenge that I think a total accumulation will take. It's at least a challenge that the Right takes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e311	I record that the Right is most concerned with those who have, and of the companies that are doing well, when they are discussing ownership, while they are otherwise trying to give the impression that they are most concerned with innovation and entrepreneurship. Not so many people can have a good conscience when it comes to research, says the representative from the Right. And that's right. But I feel that SV is one of the parties that can actually have it. Whenever a reader of the main messages measures and the Committee has come forward during the examination of the case, there is little to be done to provide new business – research, education, competence. On the other hand, a kind of notion of competence per person is promoted. natural law exists in private enterprises and that if you get more and more private owners, this competence comes in a way. This is a little bit of a targeted strategy, so I could imagine asking the representative Gabrielsen if he doesn't see that if we're going to create the jobs we're going to live on in the future, it's a safer strategy to bet on education and research, spend money on it, and support those who are engaged in innovation and entrepreneurship, instead of giving tax relief to businesses that are going well, and to people who have a standard of living in this country could envy them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e318	Let me start also with this answer that I did after the first line: This is a big message about ownership. This is not a broad message of what we should do to initiate new activities. Now it is that SV is not represented in the Business Committee. They have not found it so important to be present there, but have prioritised differently. But in fact, in the Business Committee, we have a business message that takes care of the entire spectrum, and all that the representative wants will be duly highlighted and highlighted in the position on it. There is no doubt that education and research are among the best we can invest in the future. It's more important than a grant of $5 million. kr more or less to either NORTRA, TI or whatever it may be. There is no doubt that transforming part of the oil wealth into all of our heads is very important. But as I said, this message is about how we can ensure a solid, active ownership of Norwegian business. It is then a natural issue, after it has been established that private Norwegian ownership is very weak and the state is very strong, that both the message and the setting focus on these things. And there is no doubt, at least I think, that if we are to have a diversity in business in the future, it is important that we take action critically in relation to the large state involvements that are concentrated in few, large enterprises. I just want to remind you that the Norwegian value of what lies within Telenor is NOK 115 billion, and that the total amount that SND Invest has distributed over 250 companies is NOK 2 billion in holdings. So the state has very much concentrated on very few. The time has come to reconsider such positions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e325	We live in a long country, and we've spread settlements. It'll be known to everyone. It is also a fact that a significant part of the value creation takes place in District Norway. This is actually of great national value and not just of value to the individual community as it is. It is important to provide good facilities for private and commercial enterprises. These communities are also completely dependent on a well-functioning infrastructure, public services such as health, school, etc., but there is also infrastructure such as road, telephone, telecommunications and such things as the need for a society to function. We now know the intention in the agreement between Telenor and Telia, which is that it should be at least 33.4 pst. at the hands of the Norwegian State, and at least 51 pst. under public governance. I noticed that the representative was in the middle of that problem, and my question is: Does the Right agree that there is a security for the infrastructure of small, value-creating district communities, and that we are best served here that Telenor is partially privatised and not fully privatized? Can I just get an answer to that, so it's clear from the right-hand side?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e333	If you can expect a clear answer? Well, it would certainly have the same degree of clarity as the answers given by the Left Councils in connection with this matter, I would assume. When the representative initially determines the importance of infrastructure in order to put the whole country into service, there is no doubt about it. We all agree on that. So the next thing is, are you willing to prioritize this? What, in my opinion, has actually been the problem of this government – and it has proved itself through the harvest budgetary procedure – is that this is not the case. One of the things that is highly sought by the industry in the districts is an infrastructure for transport, which reduces the regional handicap that is known to be far from the markets. That is why the Right in its alternative budget has put very heavy emphasis on transport. As Kongshaug will be familiar with, we had little impact on that in the budget agreement that became the final one. With regard to telecommunications, it is clear that telecommunications is a very important part of business infrastructure in the districts as well. To what extent one has to tie one of the companies that are going to operate in the telecommunications market in terms of pricing, equal pricing and different pricing, my starting point is that as a state owner, one should at least be careful and know what one is doing in that way, because there is no reason to put a greater burden on such a company than what one can do on other, similar companies. I believe, first of all, that the Minister for Transport, through the regular role of the whole market, must premise so that all companies competing must take the same considerations. Putting a one-sided disability on a company because we happen to be owners, I don't think it's the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e342	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e345	After an additional announcement of ownership in the business that the government got back, one would believe that the government had the power to chisel out a policy in the area of a new big message. It's not like that. In the areas where a do good for the actual situation, of course, St.meld. No 40 for 1997-98 from the Government of Bondevik identical to St.meld. No 61 for 1996-97 from the government of Jagland. On the other hand, the bet is in St.meld. No 61 all the way out. In fact, only one person sees family businesses as those who are going to solve the challenge, and tax policy. I'm afraid that's a bad starting point. We are at a time of great technological change and of increasing globalisation. It can therefore be entirely decisive for the development of Norway as an industrial nation that the country has a strategy in the important area of ownership. National ownership is isolated and has no objective in itself. However, there can be no doubt that Norway, as a small nation, must have some large viable industrial locomotives with strong national ownership and head office in Norway. What's going on? Nycomed moved out. Kværner moved his head office to London. Telenor's on her way to Stockholm. And more examples could be mentioned. I'm not saying that this is necessarily crazy, but we have to be aware of what's going on, and why. We cannot allow this to develop without the perceptions of the need for national ownership by the magnificence and government. If developments are to take place in line with the political point of view of the Right and the Progress Party, I am afraid that in the future, Norwegian business will be largely dominated by other countries. It can go well, but it's risky in all circumstances, not least in the time we're now in. There is reason to point out that business is in a strong transition period driven by market integration and by technological innovation. This and increasing globalisation mean that Norwegian business is facing extra major challenges at the edge of, or far from, the large markets. Ownership is an important competitive factor, therefore, a policy must be adopted by the State in this area. It is necessary to facilitate a balanced and diverse ownership with the necessary elements of national ownership. There are many factors that determine the development of business in general and ownership in particular. These are the overall framework conditions that are becoming more and more decisive as to whether enterprises are located in their head office in Norway or in other countries. At a time of increasing globalisation, it is obvious that Norway is not well advised to have framework conditions that are significantly different from those in other countries. View of public ownership is usually the area where there is the greatest political dispute. I have to admit, we're not so little surprised that the government party here is with the Right and the Advance Party. It's almost alarming that the Center Party is now just as eager to privatize state-owned enterprises as the right party. There is reason to ask whether the Centre Party has now abandoned the idea that the State should actively use it in industrial policy also on the owner’s side. I would like to stress that the Labour Party has never had any religious relationship with state ownership. We have always meant that state ownership should be used to ensure employment and value creation in Norway. When state ownership is more extensive in Norway than elsewhere in Europe, one must look at this from a historical perspective, not least in the light of the fact that there is a strong political will for the state to provide birth aid to new enterprises of different character. That's the way it is, and that's how it will be. SND and SIVA are the most familiar tools we have in this area. Both are active participants on the owner page in different ways. So it will and should be in the future as well. The availability of risk capital is limited in our country, although the availability of capital is good. It is not without reason that as late as the last few years, we have proposed new arrangements in this area. I have the new seed funds in mind. The working party believes that the approach to risk capital must be even better. In view of this one must see the proposal for an investment company in partnership between the private and the State. It is not surprising that the state provides birth aid to Norwegian businesses in this way. I have not heard anyone who seriously claims that the state should not participate in getting new businesses to stand up or participate in R & D. It surprises me, therefore, that the Workers' Party's proposal to set up an investment company and a technology fund is not supported by the other parties. It may not be that only the Workers' Party sees the great exact need for risk capital and for using new technologies. We see the need for this area in order to be so large that we are making an own proposal, which I take up with this. It would be sad if we were standing alone to vote for this proposal, but not surprising. One of the arguments against state ownership is that the state mixes the ownership role and the regularity role. I'm going to venture the claim that the attacks that came here are more politically motivated than real. Having the regular tasks in one department and the owner tasks in another is a system that you can try out. I would point out, however, that to the seventh and last, this is a government responsibility, completely independent of which department performs the different tasks. The most important thing is that you trust that you see these tasks independently of each other. In addition, management by dividing this between two departments may miss out on important professional information. Therefore, the system in question must be carefully assessed before making any major changes. Several questions may be asked whether the State is a good and professional owner. Many can rightly say no. The state, like others, must, in its ownership, have clear objectives for the different activities. Furthermore, the state has difficulty defining a long-term and good ownership strategy for individual enterprises. If those who are elected by the state to the board of directors of the various companies do a good job, such goals and strategies should be pursued. Without it, a government will have little power to exercise its steering function with gravity. In cases where the country has sectoral policy objectives with its ownership, these should be set out in the statutes or in the purpose paragraph. So a few words about dividends. State holdings, like others, need stability in the dividend policy of the owner. There has to be a long-term thinking behind dividend policy. If there is a need for capital for profitable investments, one should be careful to make dividends. If, on the other hand, the assets have greater free capital than strictly required, one can charge more dividends. But perhaps the most important thing of all is that corruption and government must not use dividends from state corporations to cover the necessary expenses. That's perhaps what makes the rental in most state companies want privatization. At a time when it seemed more and more timely to sell parts of the country’s own portfolio, this must be done in a thorough and concrete manner. Once the Storting has given the Government the power to sell axles, the Storting must have the right to have a foundation for why one has chosen to sell the various ownership units. The state is and will be a major owner of Norwegian business. It's important that we're conscious as well when we're going to go in as owner, as when we're going to sell. Nothing is static. What was right yesterday might have had to change tomorrow. We haven't at least experienced that in a while. For this reason, I am not in any particular doubt that the Labour Party is prepared to discuss state ownership of various activities based on the situation in which the activities are at all times, but not from an ideological point of view, as the other party in this Chamber suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e381	Kjell Opseth has drawn up the proposal he referred to, which has been included in the setting. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e386	The Labour Party has included in its comments that Norway should have the main objective of being an attractive investment country. Opseth followed this up in his statement, and said that the competitiveness of Norwegian companies should not differ significantly from that of its competitors. It is also stated in the comments of the Labour Party that the corporate tax system in Norway is overall favourable in relation to the competing countries. Now the flat tax committee has looked at this, and it turns out it's true that we have the lowest formal tax rates on company profits, along with Sweden and Finland. At the same time, this sample says that there is a broader tax base in Norway than in most OECD countries, and that corporate tax represents a higher proportion of tax revenue in Norway than in most OECD countries. But it's in one area we stand out, and it's about the property tax, it says the Workers' Party very little about it. Many traders, including foreign interests, are prevented from investing in Norway because of the strange wealth tax. Other countries do not have taxes on wealth or are at a much higher level of wealth. Does the Workers' Party not believe that reduced taxes on wealth will be an important incentive to stimulate investment? So until the Opseth said in terms of discussing state ownership. There have been very unclear signals from the Workers' Party, among others. in the case of Statoil. Outside Europe, this privatisation process has come a long way – Norway is actually a brake block on this development – and social democratic parties are taking part in Europe. Will not the Workers' Party go into more concrete steps to dispose of State holdings in State activities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e395	It should not be new to the representative Hedstrøm that we have a somewhat different view of ownership than the Progress Party. We don't have the religious relationship with who owns the company, whether it's the state or private, the most important thing for us is that these companies are involved in value creation and employment – and I actually thought it was for the most people. As I said in my main post, we do not have such a religious relationship with state ownership that the Progress Party has for private ownership. In each case, we have to look at what is best for our country. I can assure the representative Hedstrøm that we will do so in the future, and if it turns out after a review that it is best for Statoil and our country to see if there are any changes in the ownership structure, I can promise the representative Hedstrøm that we will. We'll look at it if there's evidence that there's a need for change. So for property taxes. Yeah, this tax thing has become a big topic. I'm going to think that the vast majority of businesses in this country have a goal of producing a surplus that makes it possible to provide taxes. Therefore, there are other framework conditions I think are far more important for Norwegian business than tax, which it is this huge discussion about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e404	There is not so much surprising in the comments made by the Committee to this effect, nor in the articles. The Labour Party still believes a great deal about state ownership, the Right Party and the Progress Party believe more in private ownership – and the Centre will take care of the best in both ownership forms. But in one area, I bumped. On page 9 of the configuration, the Labour Party has a special comment, and they close it by noticing what the Government says about the family businesses – a neutral and inexhaustible remark about the important, stable and, to a large extent, district-located family businesses in Norway. The majority, the centre, the Right Party and the Advance Party, follow what the Government says about the favorable rules of a generation change that stands at the door, we believe that the framework conditions must not be lowered among the family businesses, and that the costs of inheritance tax and document fee must be reduced. What does the Labour Party think about the family business? Of nothing can logically end nothing, but I can't believe they mean nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e411	A long comment on the family business may be requested, but it is now time to say that when a groceries message produces the family business that is the only right thing in the Norwegian industry and business, there is no reason to start it any more in the setting. We have said that we have noticed – and we are fully aware – that many of the small and medium-sized enterprises are family enterprises, although we see a development in this area too, where there are several owners by spreading ownership. And that's what I thought was positive. To the extent that it is possible to get along here in the hall, we will probably jointly provide the framework conditions for the different types of enterprises. But that family businesses are going to have a lot of different framework conditions than other businesses in this country, I don't think there's anyone here in this room that thinks, even though the center party is trying to make it like they're taking special care of the family businesses. I'm pretty sure when it comes to reality, they look the same at all the companies, whether it's AS with different ownership structures or it's pure family businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e416	To the end, I would just like to point out that the inheritance fee is not a significant problem for Norwegian Hydro and similar companies, but it will probably come up in the Labour Party's policy as well. Otherwise, Opseth has used this article to ensure that the Workers' Party has no particular relation to religion. I guess it wasn't surprising. But I understand you have a relationship with innovation. To say what Kåre Willoch said in an interview relatively recently: The working party comes after a total of the right has meant, after approx. Ten to twelve years. He has a certain overview of it, and the Telia/Telenor case was a good exemplification. But the interesting thing is that innovation comes in many ways from social democrats who have left the movement. Social democrats who are now in the position of state companies and have taken the form of state companies are asking for privatisation. One would think that it might have affected the Workers' Party somewhat, and I have registered a light, a certain hope, in Mr. Opseth's statements on today's morning broadcast on radio, pointing out that Statoil has been the subject of compromises both in the 1970s, in the 1980s and now in the 1990s. We're beginning to reach the end of the 1990s, so it's starting to hurry to get a chronology in this, but I'm recording that Opseth is opening up because the time has come to reconsider the situation. My question is then whether that means that it can happen in the 1990s, or whether it depends on the Workers' Party's programme having to expire first, because in newspapers today, I see that the party leader says that during this big period there can be no new ideas. If that's right, religion shouldn't be responsible for it, but the party program. Finally, only the following small remark regarding the distinction between the regulatory role and the ownership role. It's not right that it's not a big responsibility. Of course, it's the Storting's responsibility to have a principle view of it, because it has something to do with the governance of the state's finances. But it is absolutely right, if I can interpret the representative Opseth as to how it is going to be done, i.e. under which departments, that it is a government responsibility. And that shade is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e427	To the representative Foss, I would say that the Labour Party has a certain relationship with religion, but not so strongly that we are not willing to assess other aspects of different matters. On the other hand, I have the impression that the Right has a whole religious relationship with the state that owns, and it is that it should own as little as it can afford – they have had as long as I have been in this room, and it is about as long as the representative Foss. And that representative Foss says today, he also said that well and well 17 years ago, so there's not much change and innovation in that camp. I think it's much more important that we are always willing to think again after things change, and do not have a static approach to most without regard to evolution. I can assure the representative Foss that if there is a need to look at Statoil's ownership – something that I am not sure about, but I have registered that it is taken up by the rental – we are willing to go into that debate. Statoil is such an important hub in our oil policy that it is necessary that there is a broad political plurality behind the structure of the company at all times. It was an agreement at the beginning of the 1970s, it was an agreement in 1984, and I've said earlier today that I don't ignore the time to look at a new deal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e434	: The chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e440	The announcement of ownership in business is considered to be a taboo story. It is both profiling and disappointing, we believe the statements of many businessmen who had expected something more. The Party notes that Norwegian operators are critical in its comments on the notification. But could one really have expected something more? Rather, we have to look at the content of this message as a minimum common multiple and as a measure of the lack of nutritionism of the coalition government, as we see it. It is true that small businesses and active ownership are said very well, but there are few concrete proposals that can contribute to the innovation and optimism that are needed to bring our businesses forward. Strengthening regional seed funds, strengthening enterprises through project development grants through new technology deployment, improving the freedom of establishment of insurance companies in addition to some other aspects and some assessments and balances with regard to what the Government will return to, do not weigh heavily when it comes to investing more in competitiveness in future Norway. Although the Progress Party also acknowledges that there are some positive elements to this effect, it will be of little importance for companies to assess initial investment, location of enterprises and jobs. Otherwise, the government takes a number of areas where it is to be evaluated and investigated further, and the opposition has to ask itself what is only vision, and what can be realized. Instead of pushing these things into the future, it would have been much better to use the treatment of this Communication to discuss proposals for solutions to the problems of industry on a broad scale. But we have an opportunity from Stortinget to come back to this when processing the nutrition report. It is also strange that a central government does not take a settlement with the large and growing state ownership of Norwegian businesses. The fact that the state's interests according to calculations made by the Banking Association and the Business of the Day are estimated at more than 53 p.m. should prompt the Government to respond with strong signals. This is not done in the notification. Although something is happening with Telenor, there should have been a commission that could plan for the dwindling of state-owned food exposures on a broad basis. We therefore welcome, on the part of the Progress Party, the debate we have now had on the possible partial privatisation of Statoil. We have long been committed to divesting state ownership in business, and we have made proposals to abolish public monopoly schemes, remove public privileges and subsidies to industries, industries and businesses, as well as proposals to repeal laws that discriminate against businesses in the same industry. A significant part of the share capital of enterprises listed on Oslo Børs is state-owned and disposed of by the Government through state councils such as general meetings or as representatives of the State as minority denominations. The power thus guaranteed to the Government through the ownership role is very significant. Thus, the possibility of a mix of, or interrelationship between, so-called social interests and business-economic, rational interests is present to a large extent, and this may be harmful. When the country makes some business-economy unclear, it can be claimed that there are social interests behind it and when disposals are carried out that are criticised from a social point of view, reference can be made to business-economic reasons. As a result, responsibility is diluted – there is always a way out of critical positions, and the possibility of abuse of power is therefore great. The Progress Party considers that it is necessary to clarify for all state enterprises whether ownership has a governance purpose or a financial return purpose. Any combination of these two purposes is rejected, one or the other having to be chosen on the basis of a real and concrete justification. If the only reason for a so-called national, Norwegian ownership is to maintain links with Norway and, where appropriate, a head office in Norway, the Progress Party considers that the statutes of the company may be amended so that a so-called golden share owned by the State is guaranteed veto in the matters falling within such grounds. Thereafter, state ownership is defined as a financial ownership. In the case of the sale of all the country's holdings in companies for financial return purposes as a reason, one will not have Norwegian buyers, as the size is too large, and there is a significant shortage of Norwegian financial investors, among others. because the large pension schemes are in the hands of the State through the social security system. The Progress Party considers that the state's pension liabilities and the financial ownership position in Norwegian enterprises can be combined by transferring government shares in enterprises where the financial return is intended to be transferred to the Folkerüg Fund. Once such shares have been transferred to the Social Security Fund, the possibility of abuse of State ownership by political authorities will be eliminated and the spread of power will be fulfilled. Further spread of power can be achieved by dividing the Social Security Fund into several separate and independent funds with their own governments, administrations and portfolios of ownership, but with the same relation to the availability of the return of the population. State holdings are paid by taxpayers and are therefore the property of the population, which is disposed of by the national authorities. It is the population that through the state owns companies such as Telenor, Statoil, Statkorn, Statskog and Postbanken as well as large shares in Hydro, DNL, DnB, Focus and Credit Fund. In the context of the reorganisation of the disposal of the current ownership of several companies, the Progress Party will also ensure that part of the shares in such companies can be transferred directly to Norwegian citizens without remuneration, so that the real owners can dispose of their own holdings. Being a shareholder and owner will also lead to a gigantic adult education of the Norwegian population. The party of progress will claim that it is not government-owned in business itself that can be negative, but there is the possibility of abuse of power and poor ownership that is dangerous. With the transfer of ownership to the population and to an independent people's pension fund, which is again divided into several funds, the main problems will be solved. In this context, it is assumed that the Boards of Funds of the Fund are appointed by different organisations for each fund. At the same time, it is assumed that each fund has clear provisions to ensure a reasonable return on investments and a reasonable risk profile. In practice, they will be institutional and professional investors in line with insurance corporations, investment funds, pension funds and banks based on different environments and different assessments of the individual limited liability companies in which the funds hold interests. In addition, a significant degree of freedom is also assumed in the selection of investments in Norwegian and foreign companies and funds from the people's interest. Globalisation of the international economy leads to increased cross-border competition and to a greater investment and location beyond the borders of the country. Norway must also compete to attract value creation, tax revenue and jobs. What politicians have to ask us about in this regard is what is needed for businesses to establish – or expand their business, employ more people and remain – in Norway. We believe that this is important, among other things. to reduce or eliminate the taxes on wealth. Many of our competitors do not have taxes on wealth or are at a higher level of wealth. It is necessary to reduce or eliminate the inheritance tax, which, in case of a generation change in enterprises, is severely affected, and the sickness pay scheme must be tightened by introducing qualifying days. The working time regulations of the Working Environment Act need to be liberalised in order to allow more flexible and rational use of labour serving costly production equipment. The sharing model of the tax reform is a separate chapter, and we now expect the various tax burden on companies to be assessed in the context of the review of the investigation into a flat tax system. It is also very important to improve the limited business opportunities to acquire equity. This must be made more attractive, for example. for private households to save in shares. In a strategy to revitalise the Norwegian equity market, it is important to improve the framework for tax deduction share saving. It must be made more attractive for employees to buy shares in their own businesses, and it is important that insurance companies and institutional investors have a reasonable right of allocation in shares – in order to have mentioned something. The party to the progress has long been concerned about the limited ability of business to raise equity. This means that Norwegian industry has less freedom of action in terms of risky investment in new products and new markets than many of our competitors. Increased equity is therefore one of the main prerequisites for achieving the desired growth and conversion needed in business. We had a debate about foreign ownership of Norwegian companies and access to equity in connection with Philip Morris' acquisition of Freia. The issue of a merger between Hafslund Nycomed and Ivax reopened the debate, and so have we experienced in connection with Kværner's stronger investment outside Norway. The trend that Norwegian companies are gradually laying their head offices and a larger part of their business abroad is a consequence, among other things. of increased internationalisation. Many Norwegian shareholders find it not attractive to invest in Norway. It contributes to the lack of available capital at home, and for capital-intensive enterprises there may be an important reason for finding anchoring in an international environment. Of course, no one wants the large flagships in industry and business to move abroad. If this is to be made less tempting, we need to improve the availability of capital, and then we need to have more business-friendly legislation, we believe. For example, in the Bergo Committee’s investigation, it was pointed out that today we have a tax system that favours foreign investment rather than investment in Norway. It'll be natural to do something about it. Other possible measures that are relevant, I have mentioned examples of earlier in my article. Foreigners are strongly involved on the industrial side in Norway. The owner was 31 pst. at the end of 1997 and foreign participation in Norwegian enterprises has been a controversial issue in business circles. There are many myths associated with foreign capital and ownership of Norwegian enterprises. When foreigners come in, there are many who fear loss of jobs, that companies are slaughtered, and that production is moved out of the country. The party of progress considers such fear to be significantly exaggerated. The danger of foreign investors choosing to stay away from Norway and Norway for the future seems much more imminent. We believe it is high time to scrape old myths about the dangers of foreign capital. This is a strange phenomenon, because in most other countries it is competing to attract foreign capital in the globalization process we are in. We believe that foreign owners will bring with them knowledge that is useful for the ability of Norwegian companies to convert and develop. It is absolutely necessary to have foreign operations in place, such as: ABB, Siemens and Ericsson. This leads to an enrichment of the Norwegian industrial environment, the industry learns from each other. And to get a good business, you have to have good competitors. For the Progress Party, it is also important that ownership is subordinated to the issue of competitiveness. It is not the case that a non-resident capitalist is slimmer or driven by motives other than an equivalent Norwegian. The starting point is for both of them the maximum return and profit. But if we're not willing to facilitate business to develop companies that are competitive, we don't get any foreign or Norwegian capital to build businesses in Norway. This is what will be the main challenge in the years to come. I would like to refer to the motion referred to in the vote on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e480	The representative Hedstrøm has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e485	After this article, it might be tempting to ask the Progress Party whether they are as worried about abuse of power in the private sector as they are about abuse of power in the public sector when it comes to ownership. When I listen to the Progress Party, I wonder if they believe in their own policies, or if they just say what they've always said. It reminds me very much of Willoch's dynamic tax policy that was going to take care of so much. We saw how it went. If the Progress Party believes in its own policy – we must believe that they believe in their own policy – the Progress Party sees at the Center Party, for example. as a faithful partner in this? Is there any reason to believe that the Center Party – and not just the Center Party, but the entire Government – has now changed its policy? The representative Hedstrøm put quite a lot of emphasis on that this was a bad message, that it was little that came out, and that there were little visions, but just as fully the Progress Party has joined with the Center Party, the Government Party, on most of the suggestions in this setting. And then I'm a little overstated that the Progress Party believes that tax policy is going to sort out so much. Doesn't the Progress Party see that tax policy is just a tool for businesses that make money? In fact, if you want to reduce or increase the tax, it only applies to those who make money. We need some other tools to support those who are coming from ideas to the company.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e494	The representative Ausdal Starrfelt took up some interesting angles. It must be clear that strong State power concentration or State monopolies are not worse than private monopolies or excessive private power concentration. It is important that the Competition Authority and other control bodies in Norway ensure that we have a freedest possible competition that works. That is what has been the error in Norway, as I described very clearly in my main post, that the state ownership associated with the government via the general meeting, etc. often have dual functions. With regard to the role of the Centre Party in this regard, the Party of Advances and the Right has clearly drawn the government parties on some positive wording in the suspension of the property tax. But I want to say that the Progress Party, which is today a 15 p.m. party on the Stortinget, does not just want to make proposals that are perceived as demonstration proposals. After all, we want to achieve something in practical policy, although in many areas we also need to pull the loop in business policy, remove some old watering and some sacred cows. Of course, we're also going to keep doing that. I'm sorry we haven't done better, so Norway is now perceived as a brake pad in Europe to understand that the state is going to take care of the primary problems and solve them properly, before anyone even starts with other things. In the case of state, speculative business, it is on its way across Europe, except in Norway and in a few other cases.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e503	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e506	We have a central government, and it appears in this message and in the main strategies for ownership in Norwegian business. The government will contribute to a spread and lack of ownership, it will stimulate private ownership, strengthen businesses' ability to build up equity and maintain public involvement in key areas that manage natural resources. Many have been inside Telenor-saka. This is not a debate about the future of Telenor, or about a company with a name starting with Tele. And it is by no means a debate on whether Telenor should pursue district policy. The responsibility for district policy lies in this house. It is not determined by ownership, but by our role as regulator. The new company will, of course, have to comply with the concession terms adopted by the government. The former governments and the majority in Stortinget have, as far as I know, looked for the «extreme, naked island» in Norway to have telecommunications services at the same price as one, for example. has in the Pilestret. Of course, this has to go on, something else is unacceptable for a center government. Even if the new company receives stronger capital and new ownership agreement, Norway as a whole must have services as before. The international trend is deregulation and privatisation. Norway has a large section of state ownership and is atypical. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government's efforts must be to improve the potential of the active and private ownership of business. This is important in order to improve competitiveness, competitiveness and product development, as well as to spread power and influence. It's said that power corrupts, and total power corrupts completely. If we are to be closed down by increasing private ownership in a world where globalisation and competition are increasing, the framework conditions for our businesses need not only to be stable and long-term but also to make them capitalist and resilient for swinging markets. The biggest challenge for Norway, as for most other countries, is to ensure that businesses and competences are established here. Technology may lead to uncompetitive conditions unless the framework is reasonable and competitive. Favorable ownership conditions and tax conditions are necessary in this context, but also general simplification and the fight against forms and bureaucracy. Equity is an important competitive factor, and combined with a committed and active ownership it becomes a valuable contribution to business stability. It is more important for Norway that the value creation takes place here than that ownership is necessarily national, even though an improper feeling that national ownership is both safe and stable. However, a small country with an open economy depends on international, competitive framework conditions for attracting the necessary foreign capital and ownership interest. The Christian People's Party believes that there is reason to be critical of the fact that government ownership in Norway is not only strong, but that it has also increased in recent years. Therefore, the Government will discuss the scope and organisation of this ownership. Much of the post-war period has been marked by the fact that saving has been a loss business. Inflation, property taxes and taxes on interest income have decreased the crown value over a year. This does not stimulate saving. But a society is very dependent on people saving and saving channelling equity into businesses. Christian People's Party agrees with the Government when it wants to use the tax system to stimulate household savings in axes. The AMS scheme is such an incentive. The stock discount for unlisted companies has been passed on for the same reason. Tax is always an important issue in ownership. Taxes on wealth are taxes on savings, and where this tax makes saving negative, it can have very unfortunate consequences. The world has been smaller, and Norwegian business must have almost the same conditions for ownership as foreign competitors, as I have mentioned before. The government takes this seriously and will review the property tax in the context of a flatter tax system. The centre party is of the opinion that the removal of the property tax will naturally strengthen Norwegian private ownership, even if it is not the only effect it can have. The Christian People’s Party welcomes any form of wage or stock trade in which workers can become co-owners in their own company. That is why we also went in to increase the tax-free rebate during the year's budgetary procedure. In addition, options and business operators could be wage-reducing and stabilising expertise in knowledge establishments where the shortage of skilled labour is high. The 1999 budget agreement of NOK 600 000 as a ceiling for options is a positive contribution to closing it. The Christian People's Party has long had a special commitment to family businesses. These companies connect one with great stability and with long traditions, and many of them lead a generation shift. The Christian People's Party and the Government are concerned that this must not lose the corporations of capital in such a way as to rock the family's ownership. The inheritance fee and the document fee must therefore be reduced, even if something has already happened by increasing the amount of the inheritance fee by the last budget. This shows that the Government is capable of action. Government policy is forward-looking and adapts to the needs of business for an active private ownership. And even though the government sees the need to look at the extent of state ownership, one, in good Norwegian tradition, is still open to government involvement where important natural resources are a business base or where state participation is beneficial for other reasons — it is simply a good centre policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e532	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e535	I would like to refer to an interesting look in our country today, where it says: ‘KrF moving on Statoil’ The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, Einar Steensnæs, has been interviewed, and it is assessed whether the Christian People's Party can support the partial privatisation of Statoil. But Steensnæs says that one does not want a partial privatisation of the core business of Statoil. I feel strange about the oil prices and the low profits of the state company. Does the Christian People's Party, when Statoil considers activities in the South China Seas and elsewhere, mean that, in the case of such uncertain involvement, one should speculate with taxpayers' money? Will the Christian People's Party continue to be part of it, or do you think it is better to draw private capital, private investors who put their own money into this speculative business, and who also bring industry knowledge and have other advantages? This is interesting, because I know that many Christian-democratic parties in Europe have been at the forefront of the privatisation process. They have gained knowledge and made a positive contribution to maximising the profits and results of a privatisation process. So my question to the Christian People's Party is: Do you want to be more open about the privatisation/part-privatisation of Statoil? The Progress Party will, at a later stage, present a proposal for a Privatisation Commission, covering the entire state ownership of Norway on a broad basis, and that this Commission may promote proposals for privatisation or partial privatisation. Will the Christian People's Party support such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e546	I have not read Our Country today, so the representative must cause me when I am not fully up-to-date on what was the starting point for the question he asked. Our vision when it comes to Statoil and what we will do in the future is also not entirely clear. However, I would like to stress that Statoil, with its state affiliation, has actually made a very important contribution to the success of the Norwegian oil industry – including the mainland Norway and the Norwegian economy. As I understand it, there are a lot of other countries with bigger or smaller oil resources looking at what Norway is doing, to ensure that there will be a national gain from the natural resources they have. So here we have something to do with other countries in terms of the owner form that Statoil has. If I'm going to speak in private and on my own behalf, I don't mind that the Norwegian people also get some of the oil reserve, but this isn't settled in the party. Speculative investment with loss should not involve a company, nor a Norwegian state entity. One should be critical of being speculative when it comes to investment, but what Statoil has is knowledge that they pass on to other companies, so at least they don't depend on acquiring knowledge. A part of the knowledge industry that we've gained through Statoil, Hydro and other companies, gives a spin-off effect, not least on the West Coast, which means that we can technologically be at the forefront of the oil industry in all parts of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e555	I have noticed that the Christian People's Party, along with the majority, in the comments speak warmly for family-run businesses and for the conditions of private owners. Also in the future, the country will depend on the economic value creation of such enterprises. It will be crucial for our future well-being. The Christian People's Party has even realised that it is important that we compare the overall conditions of competition for Norwegian business with the corresponding conditions for business in other countries. The most striking point with which we could do something in this context is to harmonise taxes on wealth, and harmonisation is meant here to eliminate taxes on wealth. Based on that reasoning, I think it would be natural for the Christian People's Party to support the proposal that the Right Party and the Advance Party have promoted. My question to Apelthun's representative Seal is: When is the Christian People's Party prepared for seriousness to do something about the property tax?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e564	Of course, it is nice to have good words about our family business policy. I have grown up on such a family business and know what it means to have to work outside the night to complete the deliveries. Then it wasn't about working arrangements! When it comes to property taxes, one has said a lot in the message that one should be patient and long-term. We also want to do that in this context. The government says it will review the taxes on wealth and look at the consequences of taxes on wealth, not only for family-owned enterprises, but for all enterprises. It does that in connection with looking at a flat tax system and also in connection with looking at the property tax, i.e. taxes on the world. I thought that the representative Momyr should also show patience and wait for the arrangements to be made by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e574	The representative of Apelthun Seele starts his speech by saying that this debate is not about whether Telenor should pursue district policy. We're going to do that in this hall using regulatory arrangements. We're supposed to do that, but in that area, the central government is completely helpless, but there's another debate. It was actually so that before we had two grips: one was regulatory and the other was Telenor's role. I would like to quote from the attitude of the Committee on Transport on 'Telenor AS' from March last year, where there was a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, who said: ‘The majority believe that Telenor will continue to be an important tool for ensuring nationwide services and for fulfilling societal tasks.’ It should be noted that here was not the Right Party and the Advance Party with it. But then something happened in the autumn during the budgetary procedure. Then I wonder: Has the Christian People's Party changed its view of Telenor as a tool from March last year to January this year? Or is it just that it had to be sacrificed on the altar of the budget? It is that, in addition to regulatory arrangements, Telenor could be entrusted with certain tasks, including: one thing that we are now completely losing, and that is the possibility of instructing Telenor on where the workplaces are going to be. The majority of the population, minus the Progress Party and the Right, have repeatedly said that Telenor should decentralize its workplaces. That possibility disappears entirely on the day Telianor or Telenoria, or whatever it's going to be called, occurs. Whatever, partially privatized or not, the instruction disappears, the Minister of Transport is no longer a general meeting and the Storting has no one to contact. In other words, the possibility of running district policies is now the Christian People's Party willing to give up. Then they are left with the regulatory arrangements, and neither are they willing to do anything with them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e590	I thought the representative Inge Myrvoll should come up with his excellent proposals for names. Telenoria was a name that could possibly be passed! The question of the concession terms is still in this hall, and we are going to decide it. That a change in the company's capital and ownership structure can have consequences for other steps that we've had in our hands, I don't ignore. But that doesn't mean we can't use the travel hoods that we have and use them actively. What is important for the Christian People's Party is that either a cage in the north or in the west or on the «extremely naked island», a few must have the necessary telecommunications services. And it's otherwise necessary that they get at the same price as one gets centrally, because the new technology makes it possible, through these services, actually to establish themselves in District Norway in a more effective way than what has been the case before.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e599	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e602	At the turn of the century, there is every reason to ask questions about what challenges we will face in the years to come, also in relation to the topic that is being debated today, ownership of the business world. Increased globalisation, together with technological development, strengthens competition and increases the potential for capital to be invested where the return is greatest. This is not the time to go thoroughly into a debate on the different aspects of this increased globalisation. I will therefore be very careful in this regard to establish that this will also pose major challenges in relation to ownership and development of Norwegian business. Investments are being made in an increasingly changing and short-term perspective. Businesses can get new owners overnight. Local communities are closed down in a short time because they do not fit into the strategy of new owners. From this perspective, it is important to stimulate long-term, national, active and robust ownership, where consideration of workers, community and nation interests outweighs the short-term return on capital. This also applies, of course, to companies in which the State is the owner. The strategy taken by the Government for ownership in Norwegian business can be summarised in four points: One wants to contribute to a balanced, dispersed and diverse ownership. One wants to stimulate active private ownership. They want to strengthen the company's capital supply and equity. An ongoing strong public ownership exposure is sought in business areas that manage important natural resources. I believe, like what the Government uses in the ownership message, that it is important to facilitate a balanced, diversified and diverse ownership of Norwegian business. Public interest in business is significant and, unlike in most other countries, public ownership has not been reduced in recent years but increased. There will of course be different perceptions of the extent of public ownership, but it is a fact that through the values built up in the oil fund, the state will be a significant owner both in Norwegian and in foreign business in the future. It is the opinion of the Centre Party that whether you have public or private ownership is not, in itself, crucial. The key to value creation and socially beneficial economic development is the way ownership is exercised, not who owns it. The opinion of the centre party is that, in most cases, society is best served with long-term and stable ownership. The centre party is also of the opinion that active owners are generally preferred to passive owners. This also applies in companies where the country is the owner. Historically, public ownership has been linked to the management of natural resources, to the construction of infrastructure necessary for the development of society, and to enterprises with security policy concerns. In such contexts, in the opinion of the Centre Party, strong State involvement remains important. Unfortunately, we have seen a trend in recent years with extensive liberalisation and decoupling of state-owned enterprises from political governance and policy objectives, which has greatly contributed to removing the old arguments for strong public ownership. The State acts more as a financial and passive owner without objectives for the activity than purely economic. This is a development there is every reason to ask questions about it. The social contract that has always existed between the state, the community and workers is largely gone. Restructuring, centralisation, mergers, closure or sale takes place to a greater extent after being driven by the management of the companies, without compromising the social consequences. So we've got some form of state capitalism, which is the return of all other goals, with the state as the passive financial owner. Is this kind of ownership decent? I believe that in most cases it is not, and that it has gone too far in removing political objectives in companies where the state has interests. In my opinion, it is regrettable that the bulk of the population has not been willing to make greater use of the opportunities offered by significant state ownership to set clearer social objectives for the enterprises in which it owns, instead of depriving itself of any political responsibility for these enterprises through the uncritical use of the share company model. One of the major challenges facing the future will be to contribute to a greater interaction between private and public capital, with a view to innovation, to give growth impetus to existing business and to contributing to the start-up of industrial activities in areas where private investors alone are unable to realise exciting but often risky projects. I believe that such interaction, where the public is showing both patience, stability and willingness to interact with private people, will be crucial for development and innovation in many sectors of business in the future. It is equally important that, through the great economic autonomy of the state, we also contribute to maintaining national ownership of important companies. It doesn't matter where the head offices are located. It doesn't matter who controls companies. Through investments also in the major Norwegian companies, the State can contribute to capital injection, innovation, improved profitability and not least to maintaining national ownership of important companies. So, like the Right Party and the Advance Party, the Central Party does not have an uncritical belief that private ownership is best in any context, but believes that interaction between public and private can often be the best solution. So a few words about dividend policy: of course, it is not possible to establish a general policy on dividend policy. The amount of dividends to be collected will depend on several factors — profitability, soundness and objectives for the development of the individual company. I would like to admit that there is enough reason for criticism of the way in which dividends are determined in some contexts in the state companies, and I believe that there is reason to consider whether it is possible to find a dividend policy that gives more predictability to the individual company. The relationship of the Centre Party with state ownership has been called into question. Let me establish what the Center Party means: A strong public ownership exposure must be ensured in enterprises that manage important natural resources. The public must also have a clearly defined and long-term objective with its ownership, which also takes into account what the public can achieve through its ownership. Public ownership must be actively exercised in order to pursue the political objectives of ownership. On the other hand, the Centre Party does not see public ownership as an objective in itself, but as a means of pursuing political objectives. This means that the lot of the centre will consider each enterprise separately when clarifying the ownership of the country, as also indicated in St.meld No. 40 for 1997-98, that it is necessary to have a review of the state ownership involvement in business. As I said earlier, I regret, among other things: The working party so uncritical over the years has helped to facilitate the replacement of social considerations by purely business considerations through the choice of the share company model in many of the state enterprises. This has over time contributed to the difficulty of ensuring political and social considerations, and this also implies that the state’s interests need to be assessed in a new light. Finally, some words about the need for the most robust ownership at a time when ownership is changing faster and faster. Private ownership with active owners – often in the form of family-run enterprises – needs to be stimulated. It is a form of ownership that fits well into small and medium-sized enterprises. However, it is in one area that the communication and, to the extent that the setting could also have discussed the issues of robust ownership a little more, and that is the form of cooperation. The centre party believes that cooperative ownership should be developed and strengthened. The egg shape is robust. It contributes to the spread of ownership, and it helps to ensure equal opportunities for all owners. I note that SV has made proposals on this. I think that's positive. I would like to ask the SV to consider converting their proposal to a transmission proposal, so that a thorough assessment can be obtained in the follow-up. It is also signaled in St.meld. No 40 that you want to look at that form of ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e687	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e690	Strong State ownership in which an administrator of national resources, said representative Enoxsen in his statement. But rather, the setting of the ownership message is marked by a great deal of consensus and understanding between the centre parties, the Right and the Advance Party. The consensus is actually so big that the Center Party does not have a single comment where the Right is not included. In the opposition, the Centre party was strongly concerned about maintaining Norwegian ownership. The centre party was opposed to foreign capital, against globalisation and large multinational companies and wanted strong state ownership. The central party in the government position has now opened up the sub-privatisation of Telenor and opened up to foreign capital by merging Telenor and Telia. The central party shows no attitude towards state ownership in the setting. My question is, doesn't the Center Party have any real government ownership policy? Does the Central Party not see that it has any intention of having state ownership to safeguard Norwegian interests?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e697	In my article I have determined in which areas it is important that we maintain a strong state ownership exposure. The view of the centre party on this is fixed, and it is also embedded both in the setting and in St.meld. No 40, 40, 40, 40, There are no differences between the view of the centre party and that of the setting. There are also a number of areas where the entire Committee is in agreement on how to express the development of future ownership. As I said in my post, state ownership is not an end in itself. On the other hand, state ownership is a means of ensuring, inter alia: policy and societal objectives. I'm going to be the first to complain again that over the last ten years, the Workers' Party has helped to break the link between political and social goals, and replaced this with purely commercial, economic goals in the vast majority of state companies. This has led to the fact that, of course, it is also necessary to reconsider the extent to which the State should be the owner of the various state companies. I'm not going too far on this, but I want to make it clear that for us it's important to maintain state ownership in some companies. We are taking a biased debate on whether it would make sense to privatise parts of Statoil's business, as the Minister of Oil and Energy spoke of early in ours. We must also look at the scheme in relation to the merger that has taken place between Telenor and Telia, where everyone is aware that the draft terms of merger have stopped a year ago. After a debate in Stortinget, a broad desire was expressed for these conversations to continue, among others. by the Workers' Party. For the Centre Party, it will be important to take care of some of the considerations that Telenor will continue to pursue in the future as an actor in the telecommunications market. There will be another bowl – it will give both the Government and the Stortinget the opportunity to come back to the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e704	I would like to ask two questions to the representative, Mr Enoxen. The first goes on state ownership. I have registered that the Central Party has been involved in some very interesting comments that suggest movement in the development of the Central Party's position on this issue. The fact that the framework conditions for state ownership are changing along the way, that these companies are no longer in a monopolistic situation, and that they have come into a competitive situation, will the same reasoning as in the case of the partial privatisation of Telenor be able to proceed with a sale in the ownership of Olivin A/S, Raufoss, ASA, Kongsberg Group and, for example, Norsk Jetmotor? The second concerns the formulations of Enochsen on globalisation. In fact, Norwegian investment in foreign industry is greater than foreign investment in Norwegian industry. Norway is totally dependent on the presence and presence of foreign companies. It is about culture, knowledge, access to capital, etc., cf. Our recent visit to Iceland to the Business Committee, where we were shown how this has brought growth and development within the nation. I refer to the programme of the Centre Party, which states that the Centre Party will work towards: «investigating the possibility of setting up a public investment fund to prevent undesirable foreign purchases». What kind of unwanted foreign purchases is the Central Party thinking about?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e716	First of all, we have a case in the committee for dealing with the country's ownership of a number of companies. We'll get back to this. The government will also come back to a concrete assessment of each of the companies that the representative Kristiansen here has been involved in, so I'm not going to go into any more detail in which cases it would be appropriate to sell out. It wouldn't make sense to take that debate right now. But I've signaled – and I say it firmly – that for us, state ownership is not an end in itself, but a means of achieving some political objectives. That assessment will also be used to underpin the country's ownership of the businesses that Kristiansen now addresses. It is true that Norway has larger investments in foreign business than foreign business has in Norway. Of course, this has also happened. the context of significant foreign investment by the State through the Oil Fund and the fact that Norwegian industry, where the country is also its owner, has made significant foreign investment. Of course, the same principles that apply to investments in Norwegian business should also apply to investments in foreign business. You have to have a long-term. The proper consideration of employees must be taken into account. Consideration should be given to local communities and to the countries where they enter and invest, much more than short-term economic returns should be taken into account. This is determined whether foreign investment is made or foreign capital is invested in Norway. We have no difficulty in using foreign capital for investment in Norway – on the contrary. It can often give important impetus to the development of companies. But what is crucial for us is that we can develop robust ownership, and that we can maintain head office functions, which will be important in the future both in terms of research and development, and it must be carried out in a much better way than it has been done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e725	Like the representative Bæivi, I have noticed that the centre only has joint comments with the Right and the Advance Party and no one's own. The fact that the Center Party is wound up as a notary is not a disaster, but that they are now completely united with the Right and the Advance Party, is a little more broken. If you remember the election campaign 1 1⁄2 years ago – there are people who remember as far back as 1 1⁄2 years – the main message for the Center Party was: smaller market, more governance. They criticized the Workers' Party for being too market-oriented. Then it would be thought that when the Workers' Party in a way weakens the grip on political governance, the mission of the Centre Party was to strengthen the grip. But what they're doing is dropping the grip. It hurts worse. When you then try to hide behind the Labour Party's policies and say that the Workers' Party has weakened the governance, and therefore we can give the bluff, it must be allowed to say that this is the purest nonsense. What you're doing now, and it's mentioned in this setting today, is to show that you've agreed to part-privatise Telenor. Remember what the Center Party said about telecommunications policy together with RV in this room 1 1⁄2 – 2 years ago? They even accused SV of being too far to the right and market-oriented. Today I hear that the representative Ringstad, colleague of Enoxsen, is furious at Tormod Hermansen because he has told the truth: in the merged company we are not going to conduct district policy. Obviously they don't. It's the old dream of Hermansen to let the politicians keep some direction with him. Clearly, a merged company – privatised or partially privatised or not – we have nothing to do with it. Does the representative of Enoxsen agree that Hermansen is right, and that there is no reason for Jorunn Ringstad's recriminations against Hermansen, and that the open-eyed centre party says that the new telecommunications company will be allowed to operate on its own?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e737	Telenor’s ability to conduct district policy has nothing whatsoever to do with the forthcoming merger. Telenor’s ability to conduct district policies was limited by the transformation of Telenor into a limited liability company that took place a few years ago. SV was also among the parties that wanted such a transformation, which wanted the political and social objectives to be removed from Telenor’s purpose paragraph for purely business reasons. So Inge Myrvoll says that the territorial policy considerations are to be taken care of by the concession law given in this room. That's right. But we've seen in a lot of cases that this isn't satisfactory. Concession terms would have to be general to some extent. They want to make it clear that you have a percentage that is going to have that and so good coverage. We've seen about TV2, we're seeing about NRK2, we're seeing about mobile phones, what parts of the country are going to be without the same coverage as central areas, because when you go into a coverage rate, you can quickly achieve it by covering the most people's areas, and then it's parts of the country that fall outside. There is no reason to believe – unfortunately, Inge Myrvoll – that the same developments may not occur when the liberalisation of the telecommunications sector has now taken place too fully. It will be interesting to see whether SV will be willing to stand up and fight for an active district policy, that districts will offer the same services at the same price as central areas and that they will be able to participate in technology development. I think Inge Myrvoll will see that there will be problems in ensuring this through a concession policy, but we will have plenty of opportunity to come back to that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e746	President! It's an obvious misunderstanding, it's a direct mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e753	It should be.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e756	The representative, Enoxsen, said that SV went in to transform the old Telework into AS. It's directly wrong. We voted against it. But it wasn't that much when you let go of the political grip. That's when you're about to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e761	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e764	Who owns and has the right to use the means of production has always been at the heart of politics. Creating values that are beneficial in a global market liberalism turboeconomy is difficult. Are there counter strategies, and is there political will to use them? Globalisation is not just a new thing and not just a negative thing. It is the new massive deregulation of financial markets and the enormous strengthening of financial capital at the expense of industry and trade capital and the ability of the national State to make maritime choices that are problematic. The consequence is that the relationship of power is very much changed. It's become power concentration that's largely on private hands. A strategy with less taxes for those who already own it means strengthening the concentration of power. That is what the majority will do in the configuration and the government will suggest it in the message. The message is missing a complete critical analysis of how this works. The message says little about how private ownership collects power, but claims that there is only a collection of power on state hands that is a problem. It's the wrong time, says the Center Party, to pull up and discuss these points of view and analyse developments; it's the wrong time to do it now. But ownership is central to how to create and distribute benefits. Strong enterprises and strong investors have been strengthened. The state is now playing a major and strong role that small savers cannot in any way play. Are the small savers to be sent out in the fight against the major international financial giants? When one knows that there is no loyalty to nations, welfare tasks or jobs in international financial capital, how is it possible to be so naive that one says that national ownership is not important in itself only the value creation takes place in Norway? In order to ensure national ownership, value creation, skills building and bud shooting in Norway, the country must hold significant holdings. There is no one else who can make it economic, or who can be heavy enough to matter. Other motives for ownership are different and not always consistent with social interests. Private owners are good. Foreign owners can also make a positive contribution, but the large, heavy investors are not concerned about whether Norway is taking part in the values and in future jobs. Taxes on nutrition and wealth become important according to such a strategy. When you lower it, it gets the consequence that work, consumption and housing, which are not movable to the same degree, becomes what can be taxed. Another consequence will be increased privatisation. Such a strategy, which in a sense means an increased ‘racification’ of Norwegian business, is pure gambling, and it is very worrying that Norwegian companies should be allowed to remain open to the purchase of owners who enter, not on the basis of competence or persuasive perspectives for the development of the enterprise, but on the basis of wealth. We thought this at least the Center Party was against, and it's a whole new course that's now signaled by the Center Party's lead candidate and head of the committee. SV sees that there is a need to complement today's system with a more conscious state initiative. We're proposing a 100 pst. State-owned investment funds. We support the Workers' Party's proposal for an investment company and technology fund, but we see that there is a need for a 100 pst. State-owned investment funds. We want the state to buy into key companies. The premises for State involvement shall be business and long-term and consistent with the premises of other serious owners. Social considerations must be taken into account and restructuring, recruitment, budding, location and build-up of skills are at stake. It should not be a subsidy element in these investments. It shall be carried out by SND. In addition, we are promoting a proposal that cooperatives should be explored on a much broader basis than the ownership message. It is not at all affected, and it is quite perceptive that a central government has not seen this important area of Norwegian business and to develop this form of ownership as a national ownership, as a ownership that does not go beyond the maximum profit but that is interested in caring for heavy social interests. In order to safeguard the interests of society, the form of enterprise is used. We are promoting a proposal to evaluate this form of enterprise so that we can see whether the policy objectives are being achieved and whether we need stronger instruments to govern policy in relation to such enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e779	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e782	The Waxenå Declaration states that we want to assess the need for a separate cooperative law, and this is already under way in the Government. The proposal should therefore be sent – only as an information to the representative. I thought the representative said that the centre party was only concerned with state power concentration as the only unfortunate thing. Of course that's not the case. All power concentration is unfortunate. That's exactly what's happened on state-owned hands in Norway, and that's why we're pointing it out. It does not mean that other power concentrations may be unfortunate. Of course they are. We know about the multinational companies that concentrate great power, and we don't want such a development, just so it's clear. Otherwise, after this article, I had a request to site something that Per Kleppe once said 20 years ago. He said that in a social democracy there is no room for small businesses and for inherited industry. We have to use the tax laws to get rid of them, he said. So that's how an old social democrat thought, and I wonder if a socialist still thinks the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e794	If the representative Apelthun Seele had been concerned about what SV thinks about small businesses, I think she might have discovered that we have a education policy, a research policy and a support policy that far surpasses the Christian People's Party, and that would just hit small businesses that don't necessarily make a lot of money now, but that could build up and build up skills with the entrepreneurship, the enthusiasm and the skills that exist in such companies. What we think is that companies that go well should be involved and contribute to the community more than they do today. So we want a policy to support more in the start-up phase, and then society can join in and harvest in the harvest phase. So Apelthun's saying that there has been a dangerous concentration of state power in state corporations. The main criticism of state enterprises has been that they have not driven good business development, that they have not had industrial competence to drive their businesses further. It's been the main criticism against them. But what can be said about such businesses is that they can at least be somewhat controlled by people. A strategy that increases private ownership, where we know that the investors that come in are not Norwegian small savers at all, but heavy, international financial investors who make their decisions in closed management rooms, not even in Norway, and I would have thought that the Center Party had recognised that. I had thought that the Christian People's Party had recognised it much more, and that therefore they had realized that state ownership was important, and that it was important that we increased it just to keep the national governance of business development in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e801	Would the representative Karin Andersen like to comment on the proposals No. 3 - 5?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e804	I do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e812	The representative, Andersen, has thus addressed the proposals from SV. Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e817	In my view, the announcement of corporate ownership shows that the central government, with its industrial policy, meets the challenges of the future in a far more offensive way than previous governments. The main message of the message is fully in line with Left's view on industrial policy: that we should stimulate an active private ownership where job creation pays off for ourselves and for others, that we should have a diverse and balanced ownership of Norwegian business without too strong power concentrations on either state or private hands, and that the public should contribute risk capital and competence to the new business. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee has concluded on the Government's ownership strategy and that, through the 1999 State budget, we have already started to meet some of the objectives. When we talk about ownership, many people have easy to make it a debate about public versus private ownership. That is important enough, but the ownership debate should, in my view, be about far more than that. It should, for example: is about whether we want to facilitate the active, private owners of our own business. Norway has long traditions of such ownership, not least through our many family businesses. They're one of the prerequisites that we can maintain wealth and housing also in District Norway. The ownership message facilitates that this type of ownership is something society can appreciate and reward. In particular, it focuses on being able to have participation in own employment, through share purchases and options. This type of ownership is particularly important for many new skills and research-based enterprises, which depend on not losing key employees to well-established larger companies with which they compete. These research and competence-based enterprises are at all facing new challenges that the Government is facing on the road with this big message. They are often dependent on a long research and product development phase, which requires long-term and often risky investments of a type that may be difficult to obtain from private investors alone. A current example of this is the Norwegian electric car adventure Pivco AS, where SND has contributed more than 100 million over several years. kr in loans and grants, which have been crucial for the continuation of development. Finally, the effort was paid: through Ford’s purchase of Pivco, Norway has now gained industrial opportunities that the few people would have thought possible in advance. Just such examples explain why the Government, through SND’s instrumentation, is highly focused on, among other things. the regional seed funds, which shall provide the whole country with access to this type of risk capital. The left considers that there is still a need for state ownership in areas where companies manage important natural resources, but we must constantly have a conscious policy on how we manage the values on which the public is held. For example, it may be sensible to manage Community resources to free up passive equity to active venture capital in order to develop new industries and new enterprises, which will have to gradually take over some of the valuables of today's oil-based business. We can't just have the savings under the mattress, we have to be willing to give those who come after us the opportunity to earn their own money instead of just living on the inheritance. The government has been wrongly criticised for too little economic activity. The truth is that it has been a long time since so many heavy and good business policy issues have been promoted by the Stortinget as in the last year, and that important business activities have been prioritised as within the narrow framework of the State budget of the year. The Ownership Communication shows that the Left and Government have a clear and good strategy for getting a future-oriented business in Norway, built on natural resources, competences and new technologies. I hope the Storting joins in the message as it exists, and I feel confident that the Government will follow up on the work started through the 1999 budget, in order to implement a ownership policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e840	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e843	In connection with this case, the Workers' Party has made a proposal asking the Government to return to the Stortinget with proposals and arrangements for an investment company and a technology fund. The purpose of such an investment company and a technology fund is to establish cooperation between the public, the state and the private sector in this important area. We believe that, for example: the investment company should be organised as a limited liability company by a private majority of the board of directors. The same thinking is also at the root of the Technology Fund. One would think that such cooperation between the state and private business was in line with good social liberal traditions. My questions to the representative Kongshaug will then be: Why is the Left against this? What will the Left propose of concrete measures to meet the important challenges we face through the proposal for the creation of an investment company and a technology fund?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e850	I would like to stress that the Left and the Government consider it extremely important that we have instruments that can contribute risk capital to get on the feet of companies that have good chances of succeeding over time, but that often lack capital initially, so that good ideas have difficulty being realized. We have that tool through the SND. I just want to remind you that increased technology efforts are important for the Left and the Government. We have also been able to achieve this through this year's budget through a new project development grant and increased funds for the so-called regional seed funds. The regional seed funds shall address precisely such tasks as the representative of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen requested in this context. However, the working party opposed the establishment of such seed funds. The answer to the question is therefore that the Left and the Government take care of what the Labour Party has thought through its proposals, precisely through the established regional seed funds.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e859	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e862	The majority here today are in favour of more private ownership and less public ownership in Norwegian business. That the right-hand side wants such a direction is nothing new. That the government party does that is surprising, especially if we see a few years back, and especially if we look at what the Center Party has meant. In the opposition, the centre party has opposed any change in both public ownership and other organisation – it is true that Telenor was converted into a limited liability company or when the Post was converted into a state enterprise. Odd Roger Enoksen has even pointed out that the criticism of the Labour Party here today, while the Center Party joins with the right forces against a public-private investment company and against a technology fund. In the budget, they also went to a research fund. Now they're also in favour of privatisation with the right forces, mostly across the mountain, at least they're very open, even though the representative's posts today were not particularly clarifying. I'd rather have the idea that the Center Party is trying to ride two horses at the same time. The representative, Enoxsen, said earlier that we need less right-wing policy, that's all. Doesn't Enoksen think he's creating multiples for more right-wing policies both in budgetary management and today, doesn't he? Does he mean that this is going the right way, or is it going the wrong way? The centre party could actually create multiples for another policy today – a policy that would have given Norwegian businesses the opportunity to strengthen their position in an increasingly globalised value. The state has ours and should, according to the Labour Party's opinion, be an important player in Norwegian business. It is important that the State, as other actors, is professional in its ownership, that the State is a stable, patient and long-term owner with a dividend policy that is easy to pursue – just as private owners should be, whether they are Norwegian or foreign. The Government Party, and especially the Center Party, has often expressed skepticism about foreign capital and foreign owners. It is so gratifying that the Government of this message fades down this scepticism and at the same time places emphasis on the quality of the owners. Foreign capital has secured both investments and acquisitions of capital in many Norwegian companies for a long time. It has sometimes been the only capital that has been available, and it is not just a root cause that we have been talking about. Foreign capital from investors who are serious and want to contribute to development and growth, and thus to job security, can be a positive asset for an enterprise. It can be, for example, provide access to both new competences, new networks and new markets. But of course it's not a point for us in the Labour Party to get the most possible foreign ownership. On the contrary, it is important to safeguard and enhance Norwegian ownership in order to ensure further development of the different environments in Norway. What's a point is that the majority here today are going against expanding Norwegian ownership by going against an investment company where the state can go in by up to 49 pst. of the ownership of different companies. Of course, these funds cannot be obtained through private Norwegian capital. We now have a communication on the industrial policy for the management of the Committee. I should not prejudge it, just point out that this message is based on the idea that ‘small is beautiful’ and that small and medium-sized enterprises in the districts are the very best. Just like these companies would be able to benefit greatly from both an investment company and a technology fund. So here's something that doesn't hang in a bunch. The message we are handling today is different from the Workers' Party's ownership message, especially in the perspective of state ownership and in the view of funds. There are also significant nuances in the view of options and stock discounts, and in the view of tax as an instrument of industrial policy. Of course, the Labour Party still believes that the Jagland government's message was more offensive and forward-looking. Here it is, among other things. emphasised that key industrial policy objectives are to promote a viable business life, secure business competitiveness, secure jobs in Norway, contribute to innovation, ensure that business purchases and mergers contribute positively to employment and well-being, and ensure that the State plays a central role in the management of society’s resources. That's what I'm talking about. complementing business with measures that can strengthen businesses economically, environmentally and technologically. It's sad that we're not getting multiples for a new investment company today, and that the technology effort is much smaller than the Workers' Party proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e879	With the very extensive state ownership of business, Norway has gone in a different direction from that of the main international trend. The Progress Party therefore believes that private ownership is a crucial prerequisite for industrial development, and here both active, personal and private institutional ownership are very important factors. Active private ownership is of major importance for the country's economic growth and employment, while private institutional owners in modern economies are crucial for the total supply of venture capital to business. Important steps to promote private ownership, as the rapporteur, Mr Gabrielsen, mentioned, are to remove the property tax. Equally important is the replacement of the non-social sharing model by an exit model, and the sale of State shares in companies where social considerations do not still constitute State ownership. The party of progress will claim that it is not State ownership of business that can be negative in itself, but it is the possibility of abuse of power and poor exercise that is objectionable. A large part of the share capital of corporations listed on Oslo Børs is state-owned and disposed of by the Government through state councils as a general meeting. The power thus guaranteed to the Government by the Ownership Act is very significant. Thus, the possibility of a mix of so-called social interests and business-economic, rational interests is present to a large extent, which could be detrimental to business. The Progress Party is concerned with the introduction of new rules on the taxation of share options for employees, but does not agree with the Government’s position that the new rules should apply only within limited amounts or solely to general arrangements in the enterprises. The Progress Party considers that the new rules should apply in general and that this means that no tax is levied until it actually appears that the redemption or sale of an option to shares in employment is a gain. This will be in line with the trend in countries with which it is natural to compare, such as Denmark, Finland, Sweden, Germany, France, the United States, etc. The Progress Party points to the fact that the inheritance tax should have been removed, as it is hard and unfortunate in the case of a generation change in family-owned enterprises. We are in favour of the Government's initiative aimed at introducing a system where paid document fees are deducted from the inheritance tax of generational change in family-owned enterprises, but we would point out that this will only be a small step in the right direction to improve the competitiveness of these companies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e892	Today's debate shows that there is broad support in the Government's policy for a more balanced, dispersed and diverse ownership structure, and that it is necessary to ensure employment and value creation across the country. There also appears to be broad agreement on the Government’s strategy for ownership in Norwegian business and on the instruments proposed in the Communication. The fact that so many measures have been put into practice before the debate today also shows that some of the main challenges of the time have been addressed in business policy. One of the most central points of the Government's ownership strategy is to stimulate active private ownership. In Norwegian business there is a need for owners who, through business development, can contribute to the creation of new jobs. The provision of opportunities for participation by employees in the enterprise may help to give more people a ownership relationship to their own employment and to enable smaller enterprises to hold competent knowledge capital. The government has kept a high pressure on these issues to implement measures already in the 1999 budget. In the course of the budgetary procedure, this includes, inter alia: provided a basis for changing the timing of taxing the option benefits of up to NOK 600 000, to increase the tax-free discount on employees’ purchases of shares in their own enterprise and to reduce the sum of inheritance taxes and the document fee on generation change in family businesses. This is a major trend away from the policies of previous governments in the field and important steps to provide the basis for the further development of profitable knowledge businesses with active owners throughout the country. I have also noticed that the majority believe that the reduction or removal of property taxes will also be a significant contribution to strengthening Norwegian private ownership. This is something the Government will come back to, among other things. in connection with the follow-up to the adjustment from the sample that assessed the flat tax. Normally, active owners with a long-term perspective will play a crucial role in accessing risk capital to small enterprises, entrepreneurs and innovation projects. However, one of the country’s most important contributions to industrial policy is — in the Government’s view — to play a role when the market alone is unable to operate risk projects with high potential for value creation during the first critical phase. The government has therefore given high priority to strengthening innovation, competence and technology development in business. In concrete terms, this proposal for increased technology deployment through a new project development grant and increased funds for regional seed funds. This has been well followed up in the 1999 budget. We know that the ownership message was submitted last year, so that large and important parts of it have already been realised. Another central element of the Government’s message is issues related to state ownership. Since this government joined a year and a half ago, a great deal has been done in this area, which has also led to a much more constructive debate on the issue. As the Communication highlights, there is a need for a more detailed discussion of both the scope and organisation of state ownership. The state has an important ownership role in some areas, in particular with regard to the sound management of important natural resources, but we need to be clear that state ownership is an instrument for achieving national targets, there is no objective in itself. With increasing deregulation and cross-border competition, we need to be open to new measures that can promote the development of a competitive Norwegian business. The budgetary agreement on the partial privatisation and listing of Telenor is a good example of this. Last week's news of aggregation with Telia shows that development is now well under way. The new company, with its private partnership, could become a powerful entity in the international telecommunications market. Such aggregation will create greater opportunities to secure future jobs in Norway and to further develop Norwegian competences. Another important aspect of country ownership is the relationship between the role of owner and the role of regulator. The Government has been concerned that there should be clear framework conditions in this area. I have noticed that the majority of the committee believes it is necessary to consider bringing together the state interests in one department. I would like to take this proposal further with me. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Committee's attitude well supports the Government's ownership strategy. I am very pleased that we have already implemented a number of the most important measures in the communication. Other measures will require more long-term follow-up, and I can assure you that the Government is prepared to keep the pressure up. It will be necessary to ensure a balanced ownership that can contribute to the development of high-growth food and competence environments in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e911	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e914	State Council Sponheim held an article in which one could get the impression that there was a great deal done in this area at the time he has been serving as Minister of Industry. I have to admit that it's not just me who's having trouble seeing the big grips that have happened here, so it's going to be a bit neat in time to document these important innovations and changes in business policy. In the view of state ownership, it is right, as State Council Sponheim says, that there have been changes. But those changes have happened by the fact that one of the government parties has completely changed their view of this, and so one has received another regime. If the government wants to take the credit for a changed view of state ownership among the plural here in the hall, then it has to be given to the Center Party. I would like to ask, is it so that the government council Sponheim has agreed that the significant changes in this area have occurred in the Center Party and not in the other party here in the house? So just a little comment to Telenor-Telia, as the government has now boasted of the pole up and down. It's not long since the whole thing stopped because the government didn't want to, so there are definite changes relatively fast in the government, and it can come along in some cases.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e924	I wonder at the introductory part of this reply from the representative of Opseth. First, he suggests that there should not have been so much happening in this area, and then he goes on to say that there has been a total change in ownership policy. But it's not possible to combine these two statements. It is my clear belief that if there has not been a total change, there has been a significant change in price after we received a change in government. I remember that when the Stortinge treated the long-term budget of the previous government a year and a half ago, these questions were a central issue. The growth of state ownership in former labour party governments and a possible mix of roles, such as ownership and regularity, etc., were central issues, and one must say that in a year and a half important changes have taken place in this area. It's not my job to wonder to what extent changes have taken place in the different batches. I note that the principles laid down in today's ownership message are also at the root of this government's political basis, which is reflected in the Adult Declaration, where one wishes to contribute to strengthening the private, diverse ownership of small and large enterprises and to strengthening private ownership environments, but also to have a fundamental view of where state ownership is important in areas of natural resources management, and to contribute through ownership to the extraction of a central national base rate on the power side and the oil and gas side. The state also plays a very important role, where the market will never be able to solve the task at an early stage, in the transition from research to research-based industries. There is too little market to solve the problems, and the country must help the market to ensure that enough businesses are born. In these areas, the Government has a very clear policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e933	The communication clearly states: there is a need to discuss the extent and organisation of state ownership in greater detail. It puts a clear majority in the committee and in the Stortinget. The Council of State has also stated on a number of occasions that he wishes to dispose of holdings in State activities. I have here a look-up from Today's Business, Monday 20 April 1998, with the following title: Will sell state-owned business. It says: «The government will sell shares in state enterprises». Companies such as Kongsberg Gruppe, Olivin and Raufoss are being developed. It's great that there's such a process going on in the government. It is also nice that the Progress Party and the Right in budgetary conciliation could move in the right direction, and I am thinking about Telenor. But this is going to be divided into pieces. There is no structured approach to a privatisation process for AS Norway. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Will it not serve Norwegian interests to have a comprehensive plan for this activity? I was earlier in my main speech that we are going to make proposals to set up a privatisation commission to take into account the total Norwegian ownership of Norway, which can go in and assess it and make proposals for government and big business on how to deal with it in order to follow the views of the Minister of Industry, namely to dispose of holdings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e947	Let me first say, of course, that it is important that we always have a debate about the extent and organisation of state ownership. In a world of such rapid changes, nothing should be excluded from a debate. No matter what ideological approaches you might have, you should rely so much on your arguments that you can stand having a debate on these things. It's important to have a debate on these issues, we see that every day. Then the representative Hedstrom raises questions about some companies that are under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. There is one matter for consideration in the Business Committee about exactly these companies, where the Government has expressed its view of this, and how to think not least of the management of ownership in the future. After all, it is companies that are already largely sub-privatized, and where the state is owned together with many private companies. We will come back to a more detailed debate on the individual companies when the paper is being dealt with. I just want to remind you that already in the autumn we sold one company, Norsk Jetmotor, where the state had holdings, and the manager was the Ministry of Industry and Trade. It was a sale that was not pieceful and divided or random, but we had a long-term industrial investor, Volvo, who had very interesting plans for the company. It had come to a natural maturation where the state phased out as the owner and escaped to a serious and long-term industrial investor. It is not that we sell randomly or piecefully and divided. There is, of course, an overall plan behind this in the Government. But I also think we should be aware by further sales in some areas that it is quite important to bear in mind that we gradually have relatively weak Norwegian ownership environments, and that this should not go any faster than that Norwegian owner environments have a reasonable chance of taking over some of the tasks that the state has traditionally had in some companies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e959	Much of what is presented by the Government in this big message lives under the Vignette: easier everyday life for small businesses. After all, all documents show that there has been a significant decrease in direct private ownership in Norwegian business over the past 10 years. And probably we're within an accelerating negative development. In fact, it is the listed companies that receive a lot of attention and that also hold the big debate nationally, even though the listed companies account for only 15-20 pst. of the Norwegian business community. The family-run businesses, which also have a large and heavy place, the small companies, are getting an increasingly smaller part of the debate. And even though this big message has come in the right direction after the return, it goes too small where there is a need to take some jafs. It's these small companies that have met the huge interest rate increase. It's these companies that have had to make the most of this year's paycheck. The fact is that it has certainly not become easier in the everyday lives of small businesses. The Council of State launched an action plan for small businesses a year ago under a certain ceremony, and it is therefore a little strange when we are preparing the status today, that only one out of nine measures have been implemented. Why has this action plan for small businesses come so wrong in these difficult times?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e966	I guess I have to look at it as a compliment when the Right Member of the Business Committee says that this is more in the right direction. At least we have to think of it this way. We also look at the idea that there is a fundamental distinction in politics, with the governing parties and the Right and the Advance Party on the one hand, with regard to the view of this diverse private ownership that we want. It may be that the Right would like to go a lot further in some areas, but that doesn't mean the Government. We go at the speed that we think is the right one, and we put into effect the tools that we think are right to use. So the representative raises some questions that are more related to the general discussion of the business message. The whole debate today has shown that the treatment of ownership and general industrial policy has become somewhat intertwined. It is such that as part of the State budget, the Government presented an action plan for small businesses. We have now come out a little in January, the state budget fell into place a short time ago, and we are doing an important job on all the points mentioned in this small business plan. I understand well and have absolute respect for the fact that the bulk of the population is impatient after things are going to happen in this area, but I have to ask to spend a few weeks and months implementing some of the complicated things in this action plan. It comes, and I can assure you that there will be no delay here, here the work is progressing at a speed that is necessary. In the case of ‘lighter everyday life for small enterprises’, which the representative was concerned with, we only have to admit that we have had externalities over the year 1998 that have contributed in the wrong direction, not least the interest rate situation and the increased interest rates have led to a significant increase in costs for small enterprises, and that is unfortunate. It is then essential that we do not get a situation that makes much of this private, diverse – and often family-based – ownership fail for us, but that we are able to keep it even in a little bad times, in order to have this robust form of ownership ready when there are better times for the company.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e975	The most recently recorded replicator is Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e978	State ownership has been central to this debate and is described as somewhat heavy, rigid and not entirely compatible with modern business. Telenor is an example of state activity and ownership that has been entirely in the forefront, both in terms of technology, competence and price, and in terms of meeting good societal goals. I have seen that the Council of State has been one of the political drivers of privatization of this enterprise. I'm sorry, SV. However, when it also appears that there is a majority for this sub-privatisation of Telenor, it means the sale of shares and significant revenues to the state. Is it so that the Minister of Industry prefers this money that comes in then to go out in the form of tax relief to companies that are doing well, or is it wise to consider investing such money in future developments, for example. the establishment of research, education and infrastructure funds?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e985	Yes, the replicator believes that the government or the majority of the population at some points today indicates that state ownership is something that is heavy, difficult and impossible. That's not right. We want a balanced relationship between the state should own and the private should own. That balance has probably not been maintained, in my opinion, to a reasonable degree in recent years, where we have had a formidable growth in the total state ownership of Norwegian business. I understand that there has been a development that a real socialist thinks is all right. Socialism is about owning the means of production, and today SV is proposing to have a purely state-owned investment company to buy a lot of means of production, after all, it must be good for a socialist. I have the greatest respect for it. When you have a lot of money, you don't even need armed revolution to take over the means of production – so that's fine enough! Here, there are clear dividing lines in ideology. The central parties want to have a balanced ownership relationship between private and state, and we stress that we want state ownership in areas where we think it is important. This is often the case in the start-up phase of companies' lives, and it is the case in phases where it may be expected patiently for some years before research results can become nourishment, etc., and then we need a committed state ownership. Otherwise, I'll go against what's suggested, that one State Council should be more powerful than the other in questions related to Telenor. An overall government is behind what we have now promoted, and a collective government sees this as a good solution for Telenor in a changed tea supplier, how big businesses in the world are now counting on the possibility of taking big jafs off the Norwegian market. Then it is important that we have a Nordic-based company with significant activity in Norway – a company that is able to stand up to the increased competition. This is a new world, and then there aren't always old solutions that are the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e994	It is a line «free», and then I use the occasion. What got me to take the floor was what the Council of State said there were certain contributions going in the wrong direction for business. I would like to stress that not everything can be caused by the Government in this matter, but what is a government's responsibility is, of course, to have the means to move business in the right direction. In recent years, some business leaders and business leaders have been involved. Among other things, the new Managing Director of the NHO, Finn Bergesen, has been very concerned about developments in the level of competition in Norway, thus weakening the competitive situation vis-à-vis the competing countries. He mentions in particular the level of taxation and interest rates and our small and medium-sized enterprises in the districts, and it should be of central interest to a central government to take care of the interests of districts. I take the floor because I don't think it's clear enough what the government is now working on to try to compensate for the wrong development we're experiencing, and what businesses and business leaders are experiencing in terms of the competitive situation especially for small and medium-sized enterprises in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e1003	The replicant refers to what the CEO of the NHO in question said in the New Year's Interview, and I was also given the opportunity to go some open debates with the new director about. He pointed specifically to two conditions in 1998 which led to a deterioration in competitiveness. One was the interest rate trend, which we all had painfully recorded, and the other was a wage settlement that probably became more expensive for many businesses than what was good and that weakened competitiveness – a wage settlement that became more expensive for Norwegian businesses than there were too many businesses out there. The sum of these two conditions has made it complicated and difficult for many businesses, and not least for many rural businesses, which have lower margins, less to go on than perhaps more central ones. So to the question of what the government is doing to meet these two relationships. As far as interest rates are concerned, it is very much about a tight budget in the autumn and to oppose many good wishes for more appropriations from the State budget. So it's about having a total fiscal arrangement to create a basis for a lower interest rate. We have also seen in the new year a favourable development of the crown price, which has provided the basis for having realistic hope of a fall in interest rates during the first half of the year. I think that once again is related to how we manage to deal with the second important element of a worsening competitive situation, namely wage-fixing. We're probably totally dependent on, and that's probably the most important element now, that we're able to get a paycheck for spring that doesn't contribute to worsening competitiveness. It is probably also, in addition to the tight budget we now have for the country, our most important contribution to reducing interest rates. Here the government has established income policy cooperation with all business organisations and partners, including employee organisations, which seem to be contributing to a moderate salary settlement for spring. That's probably the most important contribution to our competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e1010	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e1014	A few of the line changes today call for a few edge remarks. My first point concerns the line change between Opseth and Sponheim, where they are actually both right. I think the Minister of Industry is right that some of this has happened in the last few years. But I think Opseth too is very right to ask questions about this because of the government parties. The reality is that they have had drivers who, through budgetary processes and in other ways, have just gone Norwegian policy in the right direction. The second point concerns the line from Opseth to Per-Cristian Foss, because I realized it was a certain frustration from Opseth's side that Per-Cristian Foss has been talking about the same main lines over 17 years, as he said. To that I have to say that it should just be lacking that we are not talking about the same main lines when we see that it is going our way all the time, that the understanding of the issues that the Right has tried to travel for many years, now begins to break into Norwegian politics. I think what we've seen in connection with Telenor, and the dawning debate on Statoil, just gives an understanding that we're on the right track here. But this has often been the case in Norwegian policy. First, the Right has raised a point of view, which everyone has been completely opposed, so there has been a maturation, and then everyone has pretended to have been for the whole time. I think it's going to be part of the story of part of the important industrial issues we're now facing. Against this background, it is gratifying that through three versions of the ownership message, we have gradually achieved improvements in ownership policy. Where the majority of the Works Committee: ‘suggests that the reduction or elimination of taxes on wealth will make a significant contribution to strengthening Norwegian private ownership in business and assumes that the Government also takes this into account in the overall assessment of a flat tax system’;» is the important step in the right direction and hopefully the beginning of an important win for tens of thousands of active private owners. Active private ownership is a main source of innovation and profitability in business. The strong and peculiar taxation of Norwegian owners leads to the displacement of private ownership and often the relocation of commercial activities. It is therefore important to start to recognise that today’s taxes on wealth are insane, but it is also disappointing that the Right Party and the Advance Party are on their own for a proposal to abolish the wealth tax by 2002. The elimination of property taxes and reduced inheritance taxes are the main contributions to a tax system that promotes increased private ownership in business. The state ownership of Norwegian business is very extensive. According to the Banking Association, an assessment has been made to show that government ownership is worth about NOK 1000 billion. More than half of the Norwegian industry is owned by the state. The strong state dominance leads to a suspicious concentration of power at the hand of the state. It creates unfortunate conflicts of stability between the State's role as owner and controller and weakens the requirement for profitability and return on invested capital. The major principal and economic problems associated with state ownership concern Right. I would like to stress that it is important to have principled views on these issues. That is why, as I said at the outset, it is gratifying that there is now a significant development in the right direction, which is reflected in the new Telenor policy. Sub-privatisation and stock exchange listing were important through, not least, the budgetary settlement in the autumn. It is also interesting to note that while the Workers' Party voted against the proposal on the partial privatisation of Telenor before Christmas, there is now openness to do so. I hope we'll see the same developments in Statoil. On the first occasion, we will make proposals to privatise Statoil. At the latest next year's budgetary procedure, we will make clear demands on this. We note that these are also views that are shared among others. Group manager Norvik i Statoil. So I hope that the maturity we're now seeing will apply not only to any more parties, but to so many parties that this too becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e1039	So far out in the debate, there's hardly any way to bring in the completely revolutionary, new recordings, but now it's got to be. Good ownership in business is primarily characterised by long-term involvement, whether it relates to government or private ownership. The economy depends on long-term framework conditions, which make it possible to anticipate the conditions that are in force. The state's role as owners in business has been influenced by nets of such values, i.e. up to the last few years. The State cannot have entirely different requirements for its own role as owner than the favourites and norms that are expressed in relation to private owners, not least the role of professional owners. The state ownership is not an end in itself, but it has grown up to the extent we know today, following the lack of risk capital and the fact that Norway is a country with rich natural resources, which is natural for the state to rule for the common good for all of us. This does not exempt the state from setting strict requirements for the management of the ownership. It is reasonable that the state develops its ownership with the same entitlement to dividends as private enterprises. The State should apply the same principle of determining dividends as that of private business. The working party therefore agrees to establish general returns and dividend policy requirements. However, it must be stressed that dividend policy should be designed in such a way as to be able to count ahead and be firm for a period of several years. There must be changes in the situation of the different companies leading to changes in dividend policy. This is where the last budget rounds in this house have gone so far. Both Telenor and Statoil have been marked as 100 pst. state ownership when the bulk of the population gathers to ignore the fact that the state has to behave as professionally as private owners. When the long-term perspective listens to the wave of balancing needs in a budget call, it is not difficult to understand that a responsible corporate management wants a partial privatisation, as it has been signalled in the media at several times. This applies in particular to those activities that are in a competitive situation that require professional decision-making at any given time. This can be seen as a defeat or as a target being reached, whichever was the real purpose. A professional management of ownership includes a long-term reinvestment plan for released resources. The goal must be to get a new, lasting value creation in Norway at the hall of the statesman. Particular attention must be paid to the right to invest resources in education and research, as well as the development and provision of technologies that can provide the basis for new and forward-looking activities in Norway. This is why the Labour Party is proposing an investment company to help secure long-term Norwegian ownership and thus employment in Norway. The proposal also includes a proprietary technology fund to help small businesses develop new technologies. In this way, we will manage the inheritance silver in a trusting way. The government of Jagland thus presented an offensive strategy to meet the challenges facing future cities. The investment fund of DKK 1 billion would contribute to the development of new technologies and skills in small and medium-sized enterprises in all parts of the country. In such a fund, enterprises could have access to loans for forward-looking investments. It's not creativity that's missing, but capital. That's what has to be our challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e1062	It is important that ownership in business is seen on the political agenda. The government's objective with the message Stortinget is to be able to get an overview of the ownership situation in Norwegian business, see national ownership in the light of internationalisation and technological developments. That is why this debate is important. It is therefore important to give a signal to the Government of the Grand Duchy, both in the Committee's position and in this debate. It is important for the development of business and it is important for employment. We need a lot of ownership. We need a balancing of ownership where long-term ownership is an important element. We need to stimulate active private ownership in Norwegian business. As I see it, finding the combination of active ownership and long-term ownership is very important for the good development of business. We need to continue working on ways to strengthen our equity and secure capital injections to businesses. I also think it is necessary to have public equity exposures within business areas that manage important natural resources that are national property. Let me make some comments/comments about this with active ownership. Businesses need active owners, owners who have competence, and who have the management – I stress it – of the enterprises. Such owners have often had and have had family business. That's why it's natural that both from the Government and from the Center Party are notable about the framework conditions for these activities. Businesses need people with both capital and industrial and market skills. The capital as a homogenous and mobile competitive factor would hardly be able to provide lasting competitive drivers. But it is when capital and competence are connected that better competitiveness arises. We don't have so many ownership environments in the country that have this, and the ones we have, we have to make up for it. Active owners use both their work effort, knowledge and capital to develop profitable activities that secure jobs and employment. In other words, the development of the ownership structure in the Norwegian business community does not matter. As I see it, it is important to note in the following area in the future: First of all, one has to build on the private owner environment in Norway. These are areas that are naturally related to, among others. taxes, not least taxes on wealth. Secondly, I believe that further work is needed on analysing and assessing cross-ownership between undertakings which at the same time take care of the concerns of competition and that it does not act as a barrier to conversion. Thirdly, the development of private and semi-public investment companies for long-term industrial owners is important and, by doing so, it will help to increase the level of business ownership of investment capital. Fourthly, I think it is important that the state is inside as a long-term minority owner of concern for the stability of a number of businesses, and that the state in some central businesses has majority interests. Fifthly and lastly, I also believe the policy pursued by the Government, where foreign capital comes in, is both natural and right. The state ownership of Norwegian companies is great, and the softening to which the government has provided is a right way to go in my view.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e1095	It is of vital national importance that we ensure national ownership of important parts of Norwegian business. This is important for economic reasons, but it is also important for a nation's self-esteem. Just as we are proud when we win OL gold in the long run or win the Melodi Grand Prix, we are also proud when Statoil's sign shines along the E4 in Sweden. And national pride was disappointed when Freia – a little piece of Norway – was sold out. However, I am willing to admit that the picture is more complicated, because we are also proud of the jam when the Norwegian department of ABB is assigned important tasks at group level, and we are disappointed when Kværner moves to London. Then maybe national pride isn't just related to what we own, but also to what we get here at home. Foreign investment has been of fundamental importance to the prosperity development we have seen in Norway. This applies not least to the first expansion of hydropower resources at the beginning of this century and the recent expansion of petroleum resources. Both Hydro and Elektem are companies established by means of foreign capital and competences. We have many examples that foreign owners have been absolutely crucial to innovation and industrial development, and so will be the future. In many areas, foreigners will have greater industrial skills and can see opportunities that we do not see ourselves. In such cases, the establishment of new or development of existing activities may therefore require the ability to draw on so-called competent capital from foreign sources. Entries of foreign interests may also be of importance in order to ensure market access and channels. Therefore, we must not initially see foreign capital as a threat, but as a valuable asset. Despite the benefits we can have of foreign capital, it is my view that it is vital to ensure national ownership. We need a reasonable range of internationally competitive companies that have their strategic home base in Norway. This means that the company has significant parts of its head office functions here, that the strategic and market developments take place here and that key research and development efforts take place here. It will also often require that important parts of the production activities take place here. This does not necessarily imply that the company is Norwegian owned. Enterprises, such as ABB, which place significant parts of their strategic and knowledgeal functions within a defined business area of Norway, could be as important actors in a Norwegian industrial environment as Norwegian-owned enterprises. However, there will normally be a close link between ownership and the location of the head office functions. Therefore, a wide range of Norwegian-owned enterprises is important. However, the two Swedish economists Stevrin and Uhlin have pointed to something important. It contributes more to Norwegian prosperity if a foreign owner asks a factory in Norway to perform functions that require and create knowledge, new learning and new technology than if a Norwegian owner asks a foreign factory to do the same. The important thing is not who owns what, but who learns to do what, says Stevrin and Uhlin. Of course, this is a very important point. Ownership is not only crucial. There is, of course, a link between access to capital and national ownership opportunities. Governments of the Workers' Party put in place a number of measures to strengthen access to capital. I have noticed that the so-called Equity Committee, led by Hermod Skånland, did not find any reason to propose further fiscal stimulation of the savings of households in shares. However, the sample pointed to several peculiarities that affect the saving of households. Greater emphasis on taxes on housing and property in relation to taxes on wealth could, in the opinion of the sample, stimulate households to save more money in banks or shares. This is an important observation, which has unfortunately been overlooked by the majority of the Storing. However, the main source of equity in business is the saving that takes place in the enterprise itself, the part of the surplus that is held back to strengthen equity. Therefore, the best and most effective measure to ensure that enterprises have sufficient equity is a policy for a more profitable business. The Labour Party Government implemented a number of measures to achieve it. In addition, the ownership notification of the Land Government would help to complement the industry’s own efforts with measures that could strengthen businesses economically, environmentally and technologically. It is important that we have private investors with industrial skills who are willing to bet. It may be important for the development of the enterprises in which they will invest. However, it is naive to think that it is only through shares owned by Norwegian private individuals that we can ensure a national ownership of our larger group. First of all, the companies listed on the stock market are growing more and more by means of self-esteem and mergers. As a result, the possibilities for individuals to have dominant ownership positions are becoming increasingly difficult. Where do we find the private capital environments that may provide security – and I stress security – for a long-term, stable Norwegian ownership? There are some, but they do not exist to a sufficient extent. Today, the country contributes to ensuring national ownership in important parts of Norwegian business. However, several of our large industrial groups may be exposed to purchases from abroad. We should therefore have an open relationship with the fact that the State can enter the owner's side also into large groups other than today. This is not to say that the State must be in large shareholdings; even more limited investments can help to safeguard national ownership. Both small and large enterprises may need to consider declaring national ownership in order to manage structural changes and remain internationally competitive. Even outside the Petroleum Fund, we have significant public financial assets. This growing public wealth provides an opportunity to strengthen the long-term and competent ownership of Norwegian businesses. The Workers' Party therefore considers that several competent public management environments should be established with different tasks and areas of interest, as is currently the case with the Folketing Fund, the Bank Investment Fund and the SND equity division. There must be formations that individually do not become too large and operate independently of each other. At the same time, they must have sufficient autonomy to avoid role conflicts and to ensure that direct holdings in limited liability companies are not managed by departments or directorates. This can be done through the Jagland Government's proposal for an investment company in which the State shares with private interests about offensive investments in the business community. While in this way we use public capital to ensure national ownership, it is important that we recognise with us the importance of the international group adding strategic and knowledgeal functions to Norway. We should therefore, in my view, remain open so that it may be in the Norwegian interest to also have a – albeit limited – ownership relationship between Norway and such groups. Some are afraid of a power concentration in the state. You're supposed to be aware of that. However, I am not so concerned about this, including the following: because state ownership is spread among different owners who may have different interests in part. The next counter-argument that is being heard is that there are going to be unincorporated companies that are run by the administration, and where no one makes demands. Yes, I wonder if the board of directors and the management of DnB and the credit fund experienced this when the State Bank Investment Fund demanded 50 pst. dividends? A third argument is that the state meets itself at the door. Of course, this is an appeal point you have to take seriously. I know the departments so well that I know you're embarrassingly careful about that. Nevertheless, there may be a problem that some do not have sufficient confidence that Norwegian departments are careful in such contexts. By establishing investment companies built on partnerships between private and State capital, these objections will be reduced because the participation of the State becomes indirect. In short, I cannot see how private owners alone can ensure sufficient security for long-term national ownership. Therefore, it should be possible for the State to enter into the ownership of undertakings other than those in which it currently owns. However, it should be organised through formations which individually do not become too large, acting independently of each other, and preferably in partnership between the State and the private sector. In this way, we need to ensure the development of Norwegian business through an interaction between Norwegian and foreign capital, and we need to secure national interests through a combination of private and state capital. In other words, we have to facilitate an interaction without fear either of foreigners or of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e1146	The issue we are now dealing with is important to many communities around the country. In the debate on the Communication ‘Ownership in business’, a government ownership policy, we have seen a great deal of commitment from many communities, but also fear from both employees and management of what will be the Bondevik government’s policy regarding its future ownership. We must have the objective that our state enterprises should be run professionally and commercially, as we demand private operators to do. Of course, professional and competent governing bodies for our state corporations will be important. My knowledge of some of our state enterprises also shows that they are able to meet the industrial and industrial requirements of the market. The authorities — the government at all times — also have a responsibility for the predictable operation of our state enterprises — have predictable framework conditions to deal with for more than one year at a time. The announcement of ownership in the business community also says that, among other things. the dividend policy must take account of the company's ability to carry out profitable investment projects. Furthermore, it is said that the dividend policy for each company should be predictable and, as a general rule, should remain firm for a period of several years. In the company Olivin, the state has been a professional and good owner. It is directly irresponsible that the Government now wants to take such a large dividend, corresponding to one third of its equity. If a private owner had tried to do this, it would have become a ramaskrik. In More and Romesdal, various reports from the State Council and State Secretary on the dividend policy and privatisation of the companies Olivin and Moxy have led to very sharp reactions. Government parties believe that state ownership results in the binding of state capital to industrial activities and strengthens the possibility of conflict between the State's role as owner and regulator. One thing can be a hundred percent sure will happen when a bourgeois alternative moves into the government offices, and that's that thoughts of privatizing our state companies come. The fact that the centre party once again swallows camels and elegantly goes away from the importance of corner stone farms in the districts and the value of state ownership is also something we see. Does the Minister of Industry and the Centre not see that a state ownership has helped secure employment and the Norwegian welfare community? In addition, state ownership has contributed to ensuring a nationally anchored and growth-intensive business. Does the Council not see the benefits of the long-term and stable functioning of state ownership? Unfortunately, in today's often short-term perspective in private business, where we see that profit is often ahead of safe jobs, it should be an advantage to have a few strong state enterprises. Olivin A/S is an excellent example of values created by a state enterprise being returned to the enterprise through development — in this case, among others. in Fränna, Stranda and Vanylven municipalities. If we had not had a state Olivin, we would not have had Moxy Trucks, a high-tech export company with 250 jobs in the municipality of Fränna. Finally, I regret to say that the Bondevik administration is helping to weaken the importance of these companies in the communities in which they are located.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e1167	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e1175	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e1181	The proposal by the representative of Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the Labour Party, sent from the meeting of the Odelstingen on 21 January 1999 reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose, as soon as possible, the reintroduction of the old freight balancing system until a new regime, if any, is in place. At the same time, the Government is requested to indicate the collection of the increased costs of the scheme.» The proposal was sent by the proposer to the Financial Committee for further management. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e1192	A vote will be taken on proposals from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right sent by the meeting of the Odelstingen on 21 January 1999: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate, as soon as possible, the inclusion of the municipal sector in the public acquisition law.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e1208	The proposal by the representative Kristin Halvorsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, sent from the meeting of the Odelstinge meeting on 21 January 1999 reads: ‘It is recommended that the Government develop guidelines on environmental concerns for procurement. Such guidelines shall be included as a public procurement criterion.’;» The proposal is, in its form, a transmission proposal, and the President proposes that it be sent to the Government without a vote of intent. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e1219	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Kjell Opseth on behalf of the Labour Party, proposal No. 2, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposal No. 3 – 5, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e1237	I urge the representatives of the SV to vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal. Proposal No. 3 is an omission from the Government — they have not investigated this together with the issue of other ownership. They have set up a legal committee and are conducting an investigation in this area, and I will then follow the call to send this proposal over to the Government, sail if it is not with a light heart. Proposals Nos. 4 and 5 we want it to be over. Proposal No. 4 is an evaluation of how to properly discharge the social responsibility that has now been added to state enterprises. There should be reason for a lot of parties in this room to be involved and figure it out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e1246	Proposal No. 3 has now been converted into a transmission proposal. I'm happy about that. The government has set up a legislative committee that looks at a separate law on cooperatives. I would also ask the SV to consider converting proposal No. 4 to a transmission proposal. As I said in my post, social responsibility in state companies is one of the important areas that the state should continue to care for through its ownership. I would therefore ask that the proposal be transformed so that it can be recommended to the Government to evaluate how this is being done. Proposal No. 5 I'll ask the center parties to vote against. What is mentioned here has been taken care of by other schemes, including: through the Seed Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e1255	I shall not comment on proposal No. 3, all the time it's turned into a transmission proposal. In the case of proposal No: 4, it may seem strange if you vote against an evaluation of social responsibility. So if SV keeps up the proposal, I would urge the Labour Party to vote in favour of it, but against proposal No. 5, all the time the Workers' Party has proposed an investment company in cooperation with private individuals. We don't have to create more companies than we need to do in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e1262	No more people have asked for the floor for an explanation of vote, and we are going to vote. Mr Andersen has made proposal No. 3 to a transmission proposal, and the wording will be changed accordingly. The suggestion sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit a communication on how cooperatives and employee-driven enterprises can be promoted as a form of company.’ The President proposes that this proposal be sent to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It is seen as a confirmation. As the Labour Party has now signaled that they will vote for proposal No. 4, the President proposes that there should be a vote on proposal No. 4 and 5 from the Socialist Left Party, separately. There will be a vote on proposal No. 4, which reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide an evaluation of how social responsibility is performed in a State enterprise.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e1287	There will be a vote on proposal No. 5, which reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for a full-time State investment company.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e1299	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to draw up a degressive plan for the liquidation of the property tax by 2002 at the latest.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-26.ana.ud841e1313	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals and arrangements for an investment company and a technology fund.’
