ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e25	Councillor Peter Angelsen exceeded 1 kg. proposition [[see Unit]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e39	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. With the arrangements outlined by the President, the President assumes that Odelstinget will be able to complete this meeting in due course.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e50	This proposal proposes a new law on the right to participate in fishing and fishing. The new law replaces five earlier laws. It is positive that the law governing access to fishing for acquisition is brought together in one common law. The Committee asks the Ministry of Fisheries to consider whether it may also be appropriate to integrate the Seawater Fishing Act, which deals with the practice of fishing and fishing, into a new Common Fisheries Law. The Committee considers that the Act of Participation is important in relation to regulating participation in fisheries. The Progress Party and the Right want to have certain aspects of the law assessed and will therefore make proposals in line with this. The Progress Party notes that the Ministry's legislative proposal proposes that the King be given the power to set a fee for entry in the trademark register and an annual fee as long as the ship remains in the register. The progress party disagrees with the part relating to the annual fee and finds no other basis for such a fee than the fee for its part. The legislative proposal would reinforce the activity requirement for acquiring fishing or fishing on Norwegian vessels, so that the applicant would have to have fished or caught on Norwegian vessels for at least three of the last five years, compared to three of the last ten years of the current legislation. This is a serious concern for the Progress Party, because we do not believe that there is any good enough reason to tighten up the activity requirement. There is no doubt that it has become so demanding to combine shipping and active fishing that most major fishing vessels are operated by persons who are not themselves active fishermen. The Progress Party therefore considers that the purpose of the Participant Act – that only active fishermen should own fishing vessels – is no longer fulfilled for larger vessels, and that the Ministry of Fisheries proposal to change the acquisition authorisation requirement from ‘active’ to ‘reverential’ fishing formalises a system in which professional land-based shipowners have both the right and the right to own larger fishing vessels. It will be difficult to see any fundamental difference whether fishing vessels are owned by professional fishing boat owners or by industry. This, in addition to granting quite a number of exemptions, means that the law of participants is being very eroded. The Progress Party takes this into account and proposes that the Stortinget ask the Government to present its own case to the Stortinget with a view to abolishing the participant law. Another thing that speaks for the same reason is that fishermen/shipowners can freely integrate vertically by investing in fishing industry facilities, while fishing industry farms are legally prevented from investing in fishing boats. The Progress Party considers that it is now necessary to assess whether the Norwegian fishing industry should be treated in the same way as active shipowners/corresponding shipowners in relation to the right to own fishing vessels. I should like to refer to proposal No. 1 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European The suggestions are read in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e73	Terje Knudsen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e76	There is reason to stress that there is an overall committee that states that the fishing resources belong to the Norwegian people together, and that no individual or company can be granted eternal ownership of these resources free of charge. I see this as a clear message, which I am very pleased with. For the Workers' Party, the main rule is that the fishing fleet should be fishing area, fixed. Professional protection is a means of ensuring a widespread ownership. In order to secure raw materials for the land-based industry and to ensure the regional distribution of fishing rights, a derogation for the fishing industry has been necessary in respect of the right to own fishing vessels. This dispensation ratio must continue. Derogation from the general rule must be possible where it is necessary to contribute to a viable fishing environment, to maintain the geographical distribution of fishing vessels and to increase the capacity for value creation in the fleet/industry interaction on land. In order to ensure non-discrimination, there is reason to draw up legislation relating to the exemption schemes. In parts of the country now is about 75 pst. by fresh-fish trawlers in manufacturing. It may therefore be appropriate to provide an evaluation of whether or not vertically integrated activities are more profitable and provide safer jobs than non-organisational activities. I have noticed that a dissertation carried out at the University of Tromsø mentions this. It has to be said to be positive that we are providing research material in this area, so that we have more knowledge-based facts to stick to. The working party has agreed to tighten up the activity requirement for acquisition rights, from three out of the last ten years to three out of the last five years. It must be stressed, however, that situations may arise where there is actually no raw material to fish on, like a little of what we are talking about in the storeroom earlier today, about selinvations and the like. In fact, such a situation may arise, and the ministry will have to consider when looking at the design of this legislation. The working party is also composed of the introduction of a fee to be recorded in the trade mark register. The intention behind – which is also a main objective – is to make it easier to get out of the industry of vessels that are not in use. It must be important to get grips that allow us to adapt the size of ships to the resource base that we have. The Committee has stressed that the Ministry must benefit more from the right to withdraw concessions which are not in use, with a view to reducing the overall capacity when it is clear that it has a regulatory framework that allows it to do so. During the hearing sessions we've had, I've been told clearly, especially from the North Sea area, that there's frustration that jet concessions that are so-called sleepy suddenly appear when it turns out to be a good fish, which, of course, reduces the basis for those who are going to be in the industry all the time and cannot let the concession sleep for a short or longer time. I am pleased that a joint committee has taken into account the situation of surviving spouses of dead fish, so that the spouse is given the right to continue driving the vessel and to be allowed to overrun the quota. In this context, I have to say that there is a clear advantage for women, who are usually involved, so actively involved in the operation of the fishing boat that they can jam with administrative staff. This, in itself, will be a life-stricken thing for her. One of the grips that the Government needs to assess in order to get more women active in the fishing industry is that those who have their own at sea will be involved in the operation of the fleet. It will in itself help to strengthen women's position and make them more naturally active in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e97	In this case, too, there is a broad plurality of government policy. The debate is, for the most part, all very important in Stortinget in the first case today, so just a little summary: The law provides the basis for the need to limit the use of resources in order to achieve a long-term and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources. Fishing is so effective today that free fishing could drain the sea – to the inevitable detriment of future generations – and that is why we need to have participation laws, with the regulations proposed here. The increasing demand for fish on a world-wide basis also increases the value of our fishing resources corresponding to it, and the Christian People's Party believes that this benefits the entire community, because fishing is an industry spread along the entire Norwegian coast. We are together with the majority in proposing a fee to be in the trademark register. This is because such a small and differentiated fee as this is meant to be, would result in a necessary cleanup in the register by the fact that those who are not fishermen will hardly pay that fee. The promise sharpens the activity requirement, but with the up-to-date understanding that active riders on land are equal to those on board the boat. The law has provided room for sensible and reasonable arrangements for dispensation. The Christian People's Party believes a must pass the rules to secure a fishing grounds fleet, even if one here also opens for exemptions. It is important to establish – as Rita Tveiten has just done – that the surviving spouse of active fishing owners must have the right to continue operating the boat. Something else wanted to be a hairdresser.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e112	The rapporteur has presented the Committee's position in an excellent manner. Let's be clear right away that the Right wants a law that regulates participation in the fishing, but we want it changed. The conclusion from the Right is this: we want the Act of Participation to be amended so that both shipowners, active fishermen and the fishing industry can own vessels above 70 feet. For smaller vessels, the objective of a fleet owned by active fishermen is maintained. The Government's proposal for a tightening of the activity requirement is rejected. There is nothing at all to help create a basis for recruiting young people and for active owners of the fleet to make access more complicated than it already is today. There is something strange in society when you want to have one of those degrees of fine-grassed special legislation for the fishing industry. Here, more or less one man can own in this country, for example. Aker RGI with enough billions in turnover and quite a few thousands employed, while in the onshore industry one should not have the opportunity to own a vessel, a lone vessel, over 70 feet. I don't think this is the right approach to meeting the challenges we face in the fishing industry towards the next century, cf. This morning's debate in the Storting on the need for increased value creation, on which I believe everyone agrees. As regards the need for increased further processing, it is clear that it must be done in industry. I see clearly that here is a moving attitude of several parties in moving towards the policy that the Right stands for in this area. But you just take a little step at a time and not a big jaf, which you really should have done here to help the industry on land get stable framework conditions, and also the opportunity to go into the owner's side of a very capital-intensive industry to create what we all demand, stable supplies of raw materials. The problems which industry is mainly facing in terms of instability – the lack of raw material access, the lay-offs, the partial wear-down of installations and, of course, the need for increased and stable labour – should be well known for the size of the population. I believe that in this context industry on land should have the same opportunities as the so-called active shipowners who are on land but who have ownership of the fleet and who are now more and more involved in the ownership of the fishing industry. We also need to be able to turn this other way, so that the shore-based industry can increase ownership of the fleet. That would be a strength for the fishing industry. This would strengthen the Storting's objective of increased processing and value creation in the fishing industry, which the fishing industry needs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e123	The problem with what Ivar Kristiansen was about now is that we don't discuss the industry's ability to own a lone vessel above 70 feet. In North Norway, the industry mainly owns all the freshwater trawls. In general, the freshwater trawls are owned by industry. Despite this, industry is struggling with some of the problems Ivar Kristiansen points out about instability and lack of raw materials. I don't think the challenges that the industry is facing can be met by the lines that the right here sketches. If the industry is not able to compete for the raw material that a fishing fleet brings on land, then the problems of having an industrial fleet will not be solved either. The only thing that will be achieved is that the price of raw material will have to go down further and that it is those who work in the fleet who will have to pay for an even more reasonable raw material to the industry. In view of the fact that we have just had a very wide-ranging debate in the United Kingdom on the development of the fishing industry, I shall be brief. The Ministry of Fisheries, through the presentation of Ot.prp. No 67 put together all the rules on the right to fish for acquisition into one law. In my opinion, this helps to make the law both more comprehensive and more transparent. The Government also agrees on all points with the proposals promoted by the law. It endorses the proposal to introduce a fee in order to be registered in the trade mark register. The proposal to strengthen the activity requirement is endorsed, and the main principle is that we should continue to have a fishing gear fleet. A unanimous committee says in the setting that it is necessary ‘to limit resource extraction in the interests of long-term and sustainable use of resources’. It is also said that this ‘will mean that participation in fishing needs to be limited to some extent’. And a unanimous committee says, thirdly, that the ‘participating law is important in regulating participation in fishing and thus the overall capacity of the fishing fleet. ‘... This comment is unanimous; it is also supported by the Progress Party. The Progress Party is opposed to regulations, as we say in the post, but acknowledges the need to have these regulations, in the same way as one in the Innst. S. No 93 for 1998–99 states that there is no concession in the farming industry, but acknowledges that this is necessary for reasons such as: the market situation. So you're in this area as in so many other principles against regulation, but you see that in practice it's not possible to cancel them. This is a useful recognition that I should like the Progress Party to have been able to achieve in a number of other areas as well. Then we might have gotten away from the simplest solutions. The Ministry agrees with all the proposals that have been made, and I see no need to spend any further time on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e144	I want to start with a degression: I think Ivar Kristiansen made an excellent point of the concern that one man can rule over several thousand jobs through RGI. It's a pleasure if you can prevent the same thing from happening within the fisheries. The proposal proposes a new law on the right to participate in fishing and fishing, bringing together all the rules on access to fishing and fishing activities in one law. It's a force in the SV's view. This will give you a more comprehensive and transparent piece of legislation. However, SV is skeptical of some of the changes to which it is made, changes which are partly contained in the notes and in the regulations announced, more than in the legal text itself. Very much will thus lie in the interpretations. Where the aim of the Act is ‘to adapt fishing fleet capacity to the resource base in order to ensure the rational and sustainable use of marine resources’, it is initially an affordable objective. The question is, How is it adapted? So far, the coastal fleet has become the loser, while a greater share has gone to the sea fishing fleet. It's an interpretation that SV finds unacceptable. This alignment is also used to remove the right to fish. But it's not the small boats of less than 10 meters with passive tools that are a threat to the resources. We cannot support an interpretation that undermines a fundamental right. So it's the opening of regulations that give us dilemmas, not necessarily the legislative formula. This also applies to § 3, where it says the following: «The king may, by regulation, specify when fishing and fishing are to be regarded as acquiring, including rules on income from fishing and fishing. ‘... The question will then be, What will be in the prescription? The Ministry’s legislative proposal in the first paragraph of Section 6 implies an increase in the activity requirement, so that the acquisition authorisation can be granted only when the applicant has been fishing for at least three of the last five years, compared to three out of ten years in today’s legislation. In addition, it is proposed that the activity requirement be met at all times. This is a clear strengthening in order to prevent non-active participants from being allowed into fisheries. However, there must be predictability here. This means that what has happened quite recently, namely that the activity requirement has been given retroactive effect, according to SV’s view, is unacceptable. It is also important how withdrawn allowances are allocated, both fleet and geographically. In SV, we want the practice of withdrawal of acquisition authorisation and special authorisation for infringements of environmental and resource regulations to be strengthened. It shall not pay itself, but rather punish itself, to spoil the sea and destroy the seabed and coral reefs. It is noted by the majority of the Committee that the active shipowner must have fisheries-related activities as his principal activity. This is an essential point in preventing other than those directly linked to the industry from entering and exploiting the resources. In the new legislative proposal, the term ‘driving fishing’ has been changed to ‘acquired fishing’. This opens up the possibility that anyone who has income from fishing is regarded as a ‘fisher’ in the sense of the law, i.e. that all those who, with or without a derogation from the law, have acquired holdings in, and hence capital income from, a fishing boat shall be treated as having their work on board and their labour income from fishing. This may result in active fishermen no longer having any pre-emptive rights in respect of the ownership of the means of production in the fisheries. Particular attention must be paid here to the basis for any exemptions from the activity requirement. SV agrees with the Committee on the need to draw up, on the part of the Ministry, clear guidelines on the freedom of exemption in order to ensure equal treatment of all applications. In part, it would be appropriate to ensure exemption for owners of the land-based fishing industry. However, it is important that the guidelines for this are based on ensuring, as far as possible, local supplies in order to strengthen fisheries-dependent districts. The problem with the trawler fleet has increasingly been that local supplies are not ensured, thus losing the nutrient base of a local land-based industry. As a result, the coastal fishing fleet also loses its reception apparatus on land. It is important to ensure an interaction between the trawler fleet and the coastal fishing fleet by ensuring the supply of the coastal fishing fleet to the land-based facilities. If so, local interests on land linked to the trawl fleet may also contribute to the strengthening of the coastal fishing fleet. One problem with the possibility of granting exemptions is that the exemptions have been the rule rather than the exception. The situation today is that 60 – 70 pst. by Norwegian fishing resources are harvested by fishing boat companies operating with a derogation from the law. It must be a clear objective of the new law that the derogations constitute a minority, not the main share, of the fish resources made available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e179	In addition to the content of the Participant Act itself, this is also a simplification by bringing together the right to fish and catch in one law. The Committee also asks for consideration to be given to integrating the Seawater Fishing Act into the same document. This is a step in the right direction with regard to the process of simplifying Norway. In order to simplify further, an annual fee is proposed in order to be included in the trade mark register. This is agreed by the Left. A large number of boats in the brand register deliver catch for less than 500 kroner a year, and some of them may not deliver at all. Then, of course, one must be able to ask questions as to whether there is no need for a cleanup right here. The principles in the majority voting on active fishing gear agree with the Left. The active owner must have fisheries-related activities as his principal activity. This is a practice which is continued both in the view of the Left and in relation to the leadership that is now in the law. Today, for example, exemptions are granted to: industrial establishments so that they can own fresh fish trawlers. Here, there's a lot of randomness out there and going. It is therefore appropriate to lay down rules in this area. It is important that guidelines on exemptions are developed in general, with the aim of trying to achieve the most equal treatment possible, because exemptions are something that a person must still live with and that we must have in the case of the law of participants. There is a need to have the varied structure that we have, and also in the context of transitional arrangements. The left also agrees with the small intensification of the requirement for active participation three out of the last five years, towards three out of the last ten years. In my view, the law of participants is important to prevent the centralisation of ownership and to achieve one of the main objectives of the fisheries policy, namely to have a variety of fishing gear with localised ownership in the districts. The Deltakers Act also points out the principle that it is important that qualified fishermen are engaged in fishing. This is important for the purposes of recruitment and further development of the fishing industry. I think the recruitment may be more difficult and the profitability may be worse if we have not stated such a principle. Otherwise, I refer to the previous debate in Stortinget on the perspective announcement and the main principles that have been drawn up there, and which are now giving specific results in particular in the participant law, which we are dealing with now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e196	The proposal for a new law on participation implies that all rules on access to fishing and fishing activities are brought together in one law instead of in five different laws, as is the case today. This is mentioned both by previous speakers and in the proposition and the setting. By bringing together concession legislation, the legislation will appear to be more accessible and transparent, both for business and management. Therefore, the legislative proposal is essentially a technical and legal update of the existing concession law. The debate has also raised questions of aggregation of the Seawater Fishing Act and the Participation Act. As stated in the proposal, the Ministry of Fisheries sees it as appropriate to keep the two laws separate for the time being. One reason is that it may seem most transparent and appropriate to have rules on access to fishing in one law and the regulation of fishing in another law. The bill requires the acquisition authorisation of all vessels used for the acquisition of fishing or fishing activities. The main purpose of the acquisition authorisation system is to ensure that persons with a certain activity in fishing are authorised to acquire fishing vessels. By tightening up the requirement of activity, to activity for three of the last five years, one will ensure that the fishing fleet is owned by active fishermen, which helps to strengthen fishermen’s professional protection. Such a narrowing became, among other things, discussed in the Structural Communication, and in this context the legislative proposal is a follow-up to this Communication. I have noticed that the majority of the committee, all except the members of the Progress Party and the Right, agree with the tightening of the activity requirement. It is proposed by law that derogations from the activity requirement be granted in case of applications for a licence to acquire a vessel of a certain size. The other requirements for obtaining an authorisation to acquire a ship below the limit will be the same as today. The legislative proposal implies a continuation of current practice by allowing administrative owners to also elaborate on the basis of obtaining a acquisition authorisation. The determination of the existence of such an activity is subject to a specific assessment on a case-by-case basis, with a significant emphasis on the individual owner's proximity to the operation of the vessel and the exercise of the fishing activities. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee does not object to 'active' shipowners on land being treated in the same way as the active fisherman on board fishing vessels. The legislative proposal goes further in order to approve fishing training in relation to the activity requirement. This is in line with what was proposed in the Structural Communication. The Government's proposal to exempt from the activity requirement on a case-by-case basis is a continuation of the corresponding legislation of the 1972 Act of Participation. While the Government will continue today’s practice, it also opens up the possibility of other parts of the sea fishing fleet being owned by the fishing industry where this is considered necessary, inter alia. ensuring a reasonable geographical distribution of concessions, and there are no fishermen in the district who are legally qualified to own the vessel. With regard to permission to attach conditions to an acquisition authorisation, I have noticed that the Committee has agreed in its decision that such conditions can be imposed, among others. based on regional policy considerations. The Committee has stated that, for example: would be fully acceptable as a condition for a vessel to deliver its catches within a demarcated region where there is effective competition for the purchase of the raw material. The Committee has pointed out that such competition would contribute to allocating the raw material to the most competitive plant in a specified region. On the other hand, the Committee considers that the conditions under which a single shore-based facility can monopolise deliveries from a vessel could lead to that ship and its fishermen being unable to obtain a real market price within the region concerned. I agree with that, and as a general rule this will be used when conditions are laid down in concession and acquisition transfers. The Government is in favour of setting out the basis for the introduction of an annual fee in order to be registered in the trade mark register. The Ministry has stressed that such an annual fee should be introduced, not as a first step on the road towards a resource charge, but in order to cover the costs associated with the operation of the brand register and the use of the register for statistical and coordination purposes. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Committee in its position has welcomed the coordination of the legislation under consideration, and that it has been stated that the law of participants is important in regulating participation in fishing and fishing, and thus the overall capacity of the fishing fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e223	The articles of the Council of State require clarification. The Council of State presented the Government's proposals in respect of the exemption rule in Section 6 of the Act of Participation and indicated that, in accordance with the provisions of the Department, there would also be an opening to grant exemptions for other parts of the sea fishing fleet, in so far as there are no active fishermen in the area in question. The Committee did not vote in favour of this restriction. The Committee has demonstrated for several purposes that it considers that the issue of a derogation needs to be assessed in relation to it and that these are the objectives to be considered when the issue of a derogation is relevant. In my speech in a debate in Stortinget earlier today, I found reason to stress that the Committee has not agreed that there is a premise that there are no active fishermen. On the contrary, it is important for the Workers' Party to stress that the objectives of the exemption have been clarified. The request for dispensation must then be assessed in relation to these purposes. It will therefore be a general derogation where each application has to be assessed. So the Council of State has got a slightly wider access than what he initially founded. I assume that this clarification, in line with the setting that exists, will also be taken into account by the Council of State, and that the statements of the Council of State were merely an explanation of the initial proposition. I assume, of course, that the Council of State will take note of the clarification made by the Committee here, which thus provides a more open basis. It will continue to be up to the Council of State to assess each individual application. So that's how the committee's attitude must be understood. A general dispensation does not depend on the absence of active fishermen, but each application has to be assessed for different purposes mentioned in the submission. I would think that it was useful for all parties that the Council of State specified that he would follow this understanding, even though he naturally pointed out in his statement what was the proposition's premise when the proposition was made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e238	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e241	I noticed the posts that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen had in connection with the processing of the message. Now we're dealing with the bill proposition. What I've referred to in my post is reflected in the bill, and I can't tell from the wording that the committee disagrees with what it says. I take note, of course, of the views expressed by the Labour Party in this area, but it assumes that the department has the freedom of action granted by the proposal and the suspension in order to assess the waiver applications available. What is the starting point is that we have a formulation in the talk in the proposition that there is a derogation when there are no buyers qualified under the law. The reason for that is to keep the allowances in the region, not to experience what has happened before, is that the allowances are, for example, sold out of Finnmark. Finnmark is the county that has suffered the most damage in that area. This has led us to grant a derogation, at least in one case, to a small trawler to preserve the rights in East Finland. I hope that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen can agree to such a policy when there is strict regulation in this area. Let me just say right away as regards stability for the fishing industry: apart from those factory ships which have the concession and the right to produce on board, and some autoline vessels which have a certain processing of the catch on board, perhaps represent onboard production in cod fisheries. 15 pst. by Norwegian quotas. The rest, 85 pst., are the fishermen and those who own the fishing vessels obliged to land as raw material, and it will be available to a total Norwegian fishing industry. If this means that during periods of the year there are fish industry holdings that do not receive enough raw material, it is because there is too little fishing capacity to land in that part of the year. However, those problems actually only reveal the seasonal fluctuations in fisheries, which will not be possible in the context of regulation. And such a situation, that there will be seasonal variations in the fisheries, we will always have. But if some industrial enterprises with capital were to have the right to buy up a fishing vessel the size of which would be covered 100 pst. All year round, there are other industrial companies that would be more vulnerable, and I'm not sure it's the right way to go. I believe that the cooperation and regulatory arrangements you have must ensure that all operators in the fishing industry are equal and equal. I think that's the right way to go, and it's a continuation of the policy that's been taking place in Norway for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e250	State Council posts require one to ask for clarification. It is not quite the case that the law is identical to the law in this area, but if it is the case that the Council of State must have its view clearer than what has emerged in the big debate today and in the debate now in Odelstinget, the Council of State should know that the Right Party and the Advance Party are more liberal in this field than the Labour Party. If the Council of State can't now confirm that it will follow the intentions set in the Storing Message when applying for a dispensation, i.e. that it is not decisive whether there is an active fish or one, to grant a dispensation, then we will take the matter back to Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e255	I noticed the threat, at least in the body language, but also in some of the words that were uttered by the representative Opseth. Let me just remind the representative Opseth that the government is governed by the law. In the case of an application for exemption in the case of a change of ownership of a fishing vessel, if there is a purchaser qualified under the law, it will never become a matter for the ministry if he is able to purchase the vessel. There is a permit given by the directorate in Bergen, and it is stated by the law that this is the case. However, in the case of applications for a derogation, for a licence to acquire and transfer concessions to the ministry, the situation is not such. It is then necessary to decide whether to grant a derogation and, if so, for what reason. Therefore, we have said that when there is a situation where there are no buyers, you have to go further in the exemption. It is liberalisation in relation to previous practices, so we have already introduced a more liberal practice. But the department can't deal with a matter that doesn't come to the department. That's what I expect the representative Opseth to realize.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e264	If the debate continues, the President will threaten the evening meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e267	I think we should come to a clarification relatively soon. Of course, the department has to deal with the law. However, the Act states that the Ministry may, in specific cases, when it is justified by economic and regional considerations, by individual decisions, derogate from the requirement in the first and second subparagraphs of previous activity in fishing or fishing. It is not the case, therefore, that it follows from the legal text – neither in the proposition nor in the setting set here – that the exemption cannot be granted if the active fisherman has applied for. So the council says that if the active fisherman seeks, he will automatically get it. That's not what the Workers' Party's clarification is about. The clarification of the working party is that there should be a full opportunity for the Ministry to grant a derogation to another applicant, even if in the present case it is not a fresh fish trawler, and even if there are applicants who are active fishermen. In other words, the purpose for which the exemption application is to be assessed has been clarified. It gives the ministry room to evaluate. For its part in today’s debate, the Labour Party has made it clear that the delimitation initially adopted by the Ministry — which means that, in the absence of fresh fish trawlers, the derogation shall only be granted in the absence of active fishes — that delimitation does not have Odelsting as its starting point. This means that the Council of State has more powers than he has asked for. And it would be useful for all of us if the Council of State would acknowledge that he would base upon the understanding that the Workers' Party has clarified, by the representative Opseth and myself in this debate, and not least by myself in the debate in the Stortinget earlier today. There's no question of approval for active fishermen that's the theme, so in so far as it's a misunderstanding between the Council of State and the Workers' Party, we're going to write it on the cover of misunderstandings. It is essential that the Council of State recognizes that it does not have a delimitation as regards the possibility of granting exemptions for vessels other than the freshwater trawls if it is an active fisherman who had notified his interest. As is well known, more people are given the right to acquire and have the opportunity to purchase such vessels.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e280	It's possible that we're talking past each other, and I'm going to try to explain it differently from what it says in the proposition: The starting point is that if an active fisherman qualified under the law seeks to obtain a licence and transfer concessions when buying a fishing vessel and is able to finance it, and the seller wants to sell it to him, this is not a matter for the ministry. There will be a case for the ministry if there are no active fishermen who are applying, while others who are not qualified apply, or an active fisherman who is applying are unable to buy the boat, to finance it. That's what the wording is all about. Then the law is clear, then the department can grant exemptions to others. And we've actually done the same thing that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen explained in his post during the processing of the message in Stortinget, so here we're talking a little bit past each other, so to put it that way. I guess that's what this is about. But let me just refer from Innst. S. No 93 for 1998-99. Of course, we have to deal with the majority in the committee in the vote that today's dispensation practices have to be continued. We have actually continued the dispensation practices that have been in the past, and clarified it in the lecture in the law that is being dealt with today, that when it comes into force, we must grant dispensation and the reasons that we have had for it. And I'm counting on, as it's given expression for, among other things. by the representative of Schjøtt-Pedersen, that there is really agreement between the ministry and him, although it is expressed in a slightly different way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e289	The scheduled time for this morning’s meeting is now at hand. If the debate is to continue, the President will almost dare to propose that the meeting be cancelled, but he will not. On the other hand, he trusts that this debate will now have to come to a conclusion. The President, based on the presentation of the debate, will ask for a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e294	I agree that we should come to a clarification on this issue, and let me try. It is quite obvious that if there is an active fish searching, the directorate must say yes to the law. However, if there are also fishing industry companies seeking and anchoring, the Council of State has now been given an extended framework for granting exemptions. That's what the discussion is about. If we're not sure about that, we have a problem. On the other hand, if we are some people about it, this is a debate that is a misunderstanding If the Council of State agrees with what I have now outlined, he can only nod, then we will not have more debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e303	: Just two words.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e311	The president had hoped for a nod, but it did not come. Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e316	I'm not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e323	As regards the exemption, I fully agree with what Opseth said in his last post. I figured we've had that dispensation access all along, and we've actually been practicing it. What we want to clarify is that a ship can be sold without the ministry getting to know it, and we can't do anything about it. That's the law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e330	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e338	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e344	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is proposal No. 1, by Terje Knudsen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right, and there is proposal No. 2, from Terje Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The ruling asks the Government to assess the consequences of removing the activity requirement of the Participant Act. [[§ 6]] The government is asking the government to provide such an impact assessment to the Storting in an appropriate manner. ‘... Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a separate case to the Stortinget with a view to terminating the Participant Act. ‘... Both proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e440	The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against the first paragraph. So we're going to vote first over the first term.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e451	It is then voted on Section 6, second, third and fourth paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e787	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-23-lower.ana.ud266e794	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
