ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e91	The representative, Kenneth Svendsen, will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e94	On behalf of Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself, I would like to propose the repeal of the law on the registration of recreational craft and small boats.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e99	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e111	In the course of the review of the 1997 report on predatory game, there was strong desire from the sheep and reindeer industries to legislate on the right to compensation. A unanimous committee ended up wishing and asked the government to produce a legal text. That's the law we're dealing with today, and a unanimous committee ends up on a law-enforcement of the right to prey. In dealing with this law, the sheep and reindeer industry has expressed concern and dissatisfaction with the wording of the regulations and the guidelines. The Committee has been quite clear that the regulations and guidelines fall within the responsibility of the Government and are not for the Committee. The Labour Party, and I am convinced that all other parties in this Chamber, too, are concerned that unnecessary conflicts should not be created in the management of predatory game. I would therefore ask the Council of State to continue the good dialogue that has so far been with the trade organisations in this area, and to try to clear up any misunderstandings and ambiguities that may exist regarding regulations and guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e120	In my opinion, the bill under discussion today by Stortinget is a follow-up to the position of the Committee on Energy and the Environment that the right to game replacement should have a separate provision in the wild law. What has surprised me is that the department has found it necessary to attach the regulations, as a sort of excuse for the Storting to see it, but has not responded. I see that the ministry needs the level of conflict in predator management between the owners of the buffalo and the desire of the large community to keep the predators as low as possible. But is what is in the regulations enough to mitigate the level of conflict? I don't think so. It is not common for the Storting to deal with regulations separately, so the regulations it is set up for here must be in the hands of the Government. It seems strange to me, therefore, that a central government with the Center Party in its midst is acting as a child's wig in relation to the sheep industry. Let me give you an example: in the context of Section 4, the conditions for compensation, one finds reason to stress that animals should not be released prematurely on the outback – in fact, all sheep farmers know that. In addition, the animals on the outback must be healthy – it is the wish of the sheep farmers too – and you must have the best supervision on the basis of the terrain you have. What is most difficult in the context of § 4(a) is that the sinking of animals from the pasture should be adapted to the grazing quality, weather conditions and the predatory game situation. This means, in my opinion, a shortening of the field use if animals are to be sank because of the predatory situation. The inclusion of such criteria is a preventive measure and must be agreed and financed from the pot to preventive action. Another point that is strange to me that is neither sheep farmers nor interested in the industry is that you have to have a certain size of the crew to get compensation for predatory losses. For those who own the sheep, it's just as difficult when they're killed whether you own 20 or 50 sheep. This is probably not the highest level of conflict we'll experience in predator management. In a short time, there will be a management plan for wolves. I would like to remind you that the Stortinget has a dual objective of predatory policy. One must have both active agricultural production and predatory game management, and this must be done at the same time. As I have understood, the wolf should now be allowed to establish itself in zones – and that is nothing but the core area. The sons shall be located east of Åmot and Trysil and southwards to the sea. This means that an area of Norway that is already heavily burdened by predators must be able to withstand even more. I believe that the level of conflict between predator management and the pup team has reached the top.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e135	The President will draw the attention of the representative Grethe G. Fossum to the fact that it is the Odelstinget who is now dealing with the game law, not the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e138	I have asked for the word in the extension of Grethe G. Fossum's posts and would like to express my support for words. I think it's good that it was said from the Stortinge pulpit. Can I then express a little hope that this will herald a new vision – not only in terms of Grethe G. Fossum's personal perception – of the entire predatory game issue, that she might also have some influence in her own party besides her own? If we had done that, we would be able to get a looting game administration that had to quite another degree met the wishes of Grethe G. Fossum just expressed from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e143	The President will again remind you that it is Odelstinget who has met, and even though this is Stortingen's pulpit, it is also Odelstingen's pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e146	I am pleased that a joint committee ends up with the government's proposal to legislate on the right to compensation, which has been widely agreed upon in the Storting for a long time, and which Odelstinget now has to deal with. I am also pleased with the point made by Mr Gjúl, the case-rapporteur, and with the good dialogue that has been between the authorities, industry and municipalities, and I can assure you that the good dialogue will continue. It is important for the Government to contribute to the reduction of conflicts as far as possible, and also to meet those who actually have problems with the two-sided objective we are going to manage. That's why I want to go to Hedmark at the end of the month and meet the sheep farmers and discuss the situation with them at the beginning of a new season. Once the Government has chosen to present the regulations at the same time as the Odelstinget will adopt the legal text, it is because this has been a clear wish from the industry. We are fully aware that the regulation stands for the government's own account, but it seems that it has been important to present this at the same time, as this is perceived as important from the industry itself. I am also pleased that the county has come to the conclusion that it should continue to have the administrative authority, and I would like to stress that, on the part of the Government, we attach great importance and importance to ensuring that – in order to provide the best possible basis and trust – close cooperation with local authorities takes place. At the end of the day, I just want to say that this is of course not the only measure that the government is putting in place to mitigate the conflicts in the predatory game issues. This must be seen in the context of both a strong increase in the means of stocking, a wide choice of granting conditional breeding permits to speed up the collection of pests, an increase in the focus on prevention measures and, in some areas, the allocation of both money and milk quotas for conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e157	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 643]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e171	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e180	When someone enters into an agreement, there is initially a matter between the parties that do. But for some time, however, society has had some sort of regulation, and not least a review of the terms of the agreement. Already in King Christian The Fifth Norwegian Law of 1687, we have rules on null and void agreements, and provisions from them are still considered to be the law in force. Since 1918 we have had our general contract law. But it has shown little suitable for regulating the more specific agreements. That's probably one of the reasons why banks and financial institutions, up to the present day, have basically made progress that they want in relation to their customers. Lack of laws regulating agreements between banks and customers has allowed banks to spare themselves at the expense of the usual consumer. The use of services from financial institutions has increased dramatically. Hundreds of contracts are made every day. Without any rules of the game, all experience shows that it often becomes the strong and professional party, the bank, which can dictate the conditions to the amateur in the field, the consumer customer. We already have special laws on contracts for the purchase of credit, the purchase of movable property and the purchase of real estate, and finally we are dealing here in Odelstinget with the most necessary regulation also of financial services agreements. I think that the new Financial Contracts Act will be suitable to tame the banks and put customers in a much better position. The Committee agrees with the Government that with this law we will have a more balanced relationship between financial institutions and customers. The legal situation becomes clearer and, hopefully, competition will become more effective. The Committee broadly endorses the Government’s proposals. The majority just add a couple of adjustments that we think will make the law even better. The need for such a law is still documented through stories about, for example: people who suffer significant financial losses because of the unscrupulous misuse of bank cards, the pension law enforcement couple who have to leave the house when the security liability is asserted, about loans that should never have been granted, and about the banks that legally steal interest income from the customers. Since the parties to a financial agreement are very rarely equivalent, the financial institution, as the strong party, should have a very special responsibility for acting fairly and cautiously, and should ensure that the customer really knows what she is signing. Therefore, the new law introduces disclosure rules. Before concluding an agreement between the bank and the customer, the bank must provide all information in writing about the agreement. For example, an account must be created: the bank shall disclose the effective interest rate, all costs incurred in using the account, guarantees and responsibilities. The same terms and conditions must be included in the contract in writing. I would like to stress that it is important that this information is provided in a way that is understandable to an ordinary consumer, and that the banks are aware of both the form of presentation and the use of language in it. One thing banks don't specify the size of today is the much criticized fleet revenue. The way in which banks calculate interest income means that an amount of money transferred from one account to another does not, for a given period, bear interest neither for the payer nor for the payee. The banks themselves take the interest income. This period is called the float period, and the banks take their float income. It's hard to get any closer to organized theft. Until now, financial institutions have been fully entitled to provide and to decide for themselves how many days they could do so. The new law now sets a settlement date. Until that date, the payer shall receive the interest income from the amount and from the settlement date the payee shall receive it. With today's technology, it only takes one key pressure from the money has moved from one account to the other. When the money was transported around the country by a man on a horse, it was correct for the payment agent to say that the money was outside the system for a few days and thus not bearing interest. Today the money is not moved physically, they're just numbers on a computer screen. No one knows how much fleet revenue the banks provide, but the estimates are several hundred million dollars, maybe into billions of dollars. Since fleet revenue is a hidden income, it is also difficult for a customer to know how much interest income she loses. In addition, it stimulates less efficient payment systems. The longer the financial institutions spend on transferring the money, the larger the fleet revenue they calculate. Technology has made money everyday easier for both customers and banks. The bank card makes banking services much more accessible and has become indispensable to many, but unfortunately it also gives thieves greater access to other people's account. Many card users have experienced losing thousands of dollars on the misuse of the card by others. If the bank believes you are charging for the abuse, you will not get the money back unless you file a case, either for the bank complaint subject or for the court, and prove your innocence. This is going to be turned on the head of the new law. Now it becomes the bank that immediately has to return the stolen amount, or raise a case if it believes that the customer has done something reprehensible. In addition, restrictions on the liability of the card user are imposed. Although you have been grossly careless, e.g. with card and code and left both parts in the same place, you should not lose more than what was available in the account, and in any case not more than NOK 8 000. Liability beyond that can only be imposed if the carder himself has actively participated in the abuse or has actively contributed to it. In the case of loan agreements, the majority of the Judicial Committee, in addition to the obligation to disclose information, also agrees that banks should be subject to a non-advisory obligation. The Bank shall advise a client in writing not to raise a loan if the bank has to assume that the customer's financial standing or other circumstances indicate that the borrower should seriously consider not taking up the loan. If that obligation is neglected, the borrower may discharge all or part of his obligations. Financial institutions have knowledge, experience and judgement in relation to whether it would be appropriate for a borrower to raise loans, which are available to the fewest borrowers themselves. Then it is natural that the bank takes a greater responsibility than today. For this reason, the majority of the Committee considers that it should be a legal obligation for banks to give such advice, which is also happening in practice today. For loan customers, it still dumps into the mailbox letters from the bank about raising the interest rate on the loan. The justification for this lifting is very often vague and there is also a high level of discrimination among customers. It may seem like a paradox that a customer with payment problems such as punishment often receives even higher interest rates and thus even greater payment problems and less ability to discharge his obligations. There is now a requirement that interest increases made unilaterally by the financial institution should be legal only if they are granted prior access to it in the loan agreement. In addition, the reasons for the change shall be given in writing in a concrete and factual manner six weeks before the initiation of the cancellation. General terms with references to your or your daughter are no longer enough. Unwarranted discrimination against customers is also not permitted. This means, of course, that individual assessments are still available in relation to the setting of interest rates, but there must be justified and factual discrimination. Some customers experience that their loan has suddenly received a new owner, an owner who may not even be a financial institution, and who acts much more offensively, perhaps even more aggressively, than the bank in which the customer in its time took up the loan. Restrictions are now placed on the ability of financial institutions to transfer the receivables. The customer shall not be in a worse position after the transfer. The transfer can only be made to another similar financial institution because the borrower must be able to expect to relate to the same type of institution throughout the loan relationship. In addition, the customer shall be informed that such a transfer is to be made so that he can redeem or relocate the loan if he so wishes and finds it possible. The majority of the Judicial Committee also opens up to the customer, in any form whatsoever, the right of pre-emption of his own loan in the event of a transfer. The Workers' Party believes that this is a point that should be examined in more detail and therefore asks the Government to come back to the Stortinget immediately with proposals at this point. We mean immediately. We hope that when we now adopt this Financial Contracts Act, it does not reach old age until we introduce a pre-emption point for the borrower. However, the Right Party and the Advance Party feel ready to go on a legal text already today in Odelstinget. Tragic reports say that it is often the guarantor who knows at least what obligations she has taken on and who is unfairly hit when security liability is invoked. This is why the law contains more rules that impose better information on banks to the guarantor and that limit the bank's ability to squander the self-suspector. The obligation of renunciation also applies to the guarantor if his financial standing must be considered to be too weak. Then she is also to be discouraged in the same way as the borrower. The guarantor shall also be disclosed if the bank has not advised the borrower to take up the loan, while it is nevertheless being taken up. The liability of the guarantor is further limited in several ways. She shall not be liable for more than the amount agreed upon at the time of conclusion of the contract. Liability shall be reduced as the loan is disbursed and the liability shall not exceed 10 years. The banks also have a completely different obligation to disclose any default and change in the loan agreement, so that nothing can be surprising to the guarantor, and also to enable the guarantor to intervene with the borrower or otherwise contribute to the loan relationship. It is also very important that more demands are made on banks to try to recover their money from other assets of the borrower before the bank becomes aware of the guarantor. Rules that protect the customer and provide it with better legal protection are particularly important for ordinary individuals. Therefore, it is not generally possible to derogate from the rules of the law voluntarily through contracts where there is a consumer who is the one party. However, in business, some of the rules may seem both bureaucratic and heavy-weight in everyday life. It is not the intention of this law to make everyday life more difficult for our many businesses. Moreover, it is not always as clear that it is the customer who appears to be the weak party, for example: if the customer is a large enterprise. It is therefore possible to derogate from many rules in the field of business. But it's not about rules that it's of public interest that we now get, like removing banks' fleet revenues. I'm glad that through the Financial Contracts Act, we're now putting our hands on the banks. The Banking Law Commission has done a thorough job as the admission to this law. In this article I have just jerked off to give a few tastes from all the new regulations in the law. Overall, a number of measures have been discussed and most of them recommend the adoption of the Odelsting Committee. Then it is time and practice that will show whether adjustments are needed in the law to ensure, in particular, reasonable conditions for the consumer in his contracts with the financial institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e240	Is the representative of Mr Tömerås to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e243	I'd like to do that. I would like to take up the proposal in the vote that the Labour Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e248	The representative, Mr. Timberås, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e251	The Financial Contracts Act which is being discussed here contains radical improvements in terms of clarifying contractual relations between financial institutions and clients. The main aim of the proposition is to create a clearer and more transparent legal status, balanced contractual conditions for customers and effective competition. It should be noted that none of the hearing bodies has objected to the introduction of legal rules on financial agreements and financial operations. The comments of the hearing bodies are based on some of the proposed rules. On behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to touch on some of the points of the law that we believe are essential to highlight. It is important to ensure that the customer has a full overview of the terms and conditions prior to the conclusion of an account agreement. Written information should be provided, inter alia: the nominal and effective interest rate, the cost of using the account, any restrictions on the use of the account, responsibilities and the applicable deposit guarantee rules. It is worth noting that there are objections that the system is becoming difficult in business terms, so that the rules can be waived in this area. The current interest calculation practice implies that amounts transferred from one account to another, such as: the transmission system, today for a certain period, is not an interest-bearing one, neither for the payer nor for the payee. This period is referred to as the float period. It is currently the banks and financial institutions themselves that lay down rules for the calculation of interest in respect of deposits, withdrawals and transfer of payments. The number of float days for form-based transmissions is estimated from two to four days. The Progress Party considers that a legislative change is required to the maximum in this context. The current interest-rate accounting practices of financial institutions are tightened up to substantially limit their access to the calculation of fleet income, i.e. an improvement for customers, so that they do not lose interest on their capital in the case of transfers. The main principle must be a float-free payment system. The proposal will not significantly impair the competitiveness of Norwegian institutions in relation to foreign institutions operating in Norway. Foreign institutions will initially be subject to Norwegian contract law rules for their activities in Norway. With regard to the misuse of an account, the question arises as to whether the institution or the account holder should bear the loss and, where appropriate, the burden of charging the abuser for the amount. Today, this problem is essentially not regulated either. The credit purchase law of the day applies only to certain types of payment cards. The objective liability of the card holder is currently limited to 500 kroner. With today's electronic services and many possibilities for accessing an account, it is very important, in the opinion of the Progress Party, that the customer can be sure that the money will not be misused as long as you are not grossly negligent. The liability of the account holder is conditional on the legitimacy of the person who committed the abuse and on the fact that the burden has been possible as a result of deliberate or gross negligence on the part of the account holder. The starting point is that he must wear the entire wallpaper. Furthermore, the Progress Party is of the opinion that provision should be made for a non-advisory obligation in cases where the financial institution has to assume that a borrowing would be irresponsible. The Progress Party and the Workers' Party agree that rules should be laid down in law aimed at preventing consumers from making bad borrowings, and therefore propose a rule of non-advisability now. The rule should be that if, prior to the conclusion of a loan agreement or payment of the loan to the consumer, the lender has to assume that the financial capacity or other circumstances indicate that the borrower should seriously consider refraining from borrowing, the lender shall inform the borrower in writing. If the lender fails to do so, the borrower's obligations may be relaxed to the extent that this is reasonable. This relationship I now outlined is to be found in section 47. In the case of the applicable law, the financial institution has no general obligation to advise a guarantor from issuing a surety promise where questions can be raised as to whether it is advisable for him or her to bail. In too many contexts, several people have had to leave the farm and land on bail. The Working Party and the Advance Party also agree at this point that the institution should be obliged to inform the guarantor of that fact if it has advised a consumer borrower not to take up the loan. The lawfulness of information failure at this point shall be such that the responsibility of the guarantor can also be reduced here, if reasonable. The same applies where the institution has negligently failed to discourage the borrower and thus the guarantor. I then aim for sections 58, 59 and 60. With regard to the fixing of the borrowing rate, the Progress Party does not share the view that if information on access to interest rate changes for loans are not provided prior to the conclusion of the loan agreement, the agreed interest rate cannot be changed to the disadvantage of the borrower for the first three years. This cannot be in accordance with the rest of the legal system, and such a sanction, as proposed, will arbitrarily be suspended depending on the interest rate trend, see. Paragraph 48. Therefore, the Progress Party will vote against the first sentence of the fifth paragraph of Paragraph 48. Furthermore, the Progress Party does not wish to require that changes in the money market rate be significant if the institution is to be able to increase the lending rate to the consumer by less than six weeks. We would also point out that today's consumer advance warning requirements for interest rate increases on loans are based on guidelines developed between the Consumer Ombudsman and the banks. This does not require a significant change in the money market rate. Experience has shown that interest rate adjustments are particularly relevant if a change in the money market rate has a certain duration and also when the Bank of Norway changes its interest rates. We're making suggestions for a new second sentence to Section 50, third paragraph. Furthermore, a majority of the Committee wishes to protect the borrower further. The borrower should have the opportunity to purchase the receivable on its own account when it is presented for sale by the lender. We share the Ministry's assessment that the claim may appear to be sold at such a low amount that the borrower himself could have had the opportunity to repay the loan at a similar amount. It would be reasonable for the borrower to be offered to purchase the receivable on the same terms as the lender is willing to sell the receivable to a third party. I would also like to stress that the majority would like a statutory right to purchase – it would make it less attractive for financial institutions to sell out parts of their consumer loan portfolio – and believe, in line with the Consumer Council, that a right to purchase would make it more attractive to obtain good debt restructuring arrangements directly with borrowers. I should like to refer to the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party, Section 45, which reads as follows: «In the case of a transfer, the consumer borrower shall have the right to pre-empt the claim at a price consistent with that agreed between the lender and to which the claims are transferred.» With reference to the paragraphs I have been dealing with, I address the proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e289	The representative Stang has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e292	The Banking Law Commission in NOU 1994:19, Financial Agreements and Financial Assignments, states that there is a current legislative need in relation to financial agreements. The government's bill argues in Ot.prp. No 41 for 1998-99, covers important areas which have so far been only slightly regulated. The rapporteur has carried out a broad review of the content of the draft law, and I am therefore not going to go into all the individual points. For whom is the law applicable? The law is intended to apply in relation to both consumers and traders. When the customer is a consumer, the proposed rules cannot, as a general rule, be waived by contract. On the other hand, the proposed rules could, as a general rule, be derogated from by agreement. An important point is that this legislative proposal should also apply to foreign financial institutions acting as Norwegian market operators vis-à-vis consumers. So what do we want to achieve by the law? Indeed, the idea is that contractual relationships between financial institutions and clients should become clearer and more balanced and safeguard the interests of the party that must be regarded as an amateur in the contractual relationship. Most people would like to welcome the proposed rules on interest calculation by crediting and debiting the account. Many have asked themselves who receives the interest income in the period when an amount is being transferred from the payer to the recipient. The answer is that the interest income goes to the financial institution. The longer it goes from the money apparently leaving the payer's account and until the recipient has the amount inside, the higher the interest income attributable to the financial institution. With the rules we adopt today, institutions' ability to achieve these so-called fleet revenues will be significantly reduced. We believe that this is correct, because it is the payer's money until the transfer takes place, and then the money belongs to the recipient. The financial institution is paid for the transaction itself and does not own the money at any time. The Government has cross-political support for the vast majority of the proposals presented in Ot.prp. No 41. The bodies consulted within the Committee also expressed general satisfaction with the content of the proposal. But there are some areas in which the Committee shares with a majority against the Government's proposals, and I would like to comment on them. First, the question of whether a financial institution should be required to advise a client not to raise a loan when the institution has to assume that a borrowing would be irresponsible. The Labour Party and the Advance Party agree to legislate this obligation. When the Christian People's Party does not want lawmaking now, it has to do with more relationships. Firstly, it can already be said that there is an obligation for financial institutions to withdraw from a client to borrow where there is a significant risk that the customer will not be able to operate the loan. Furthermore, no proposal has been made by the hearing bodies on specific legal effects in the event of a breach of a statutory non-advisory obligation. That's why we don't think that lawmaking will bring about any change in reality. And secondly, we think it would be natural to evaluate this issue together with the Banking Law Commission's Sub-Investigation No. 5th@item: inlistbox If we now legislate for a longer period of time, we will tie up the partial investigation at this point. We think that would be unfortunate. The next issue is the transfer of the lender's claim, where the majority of the Committee will initially go further in protecting the borrower than the bill has proposed. The Christian People's Party does not oppose the best possible legal protection for borrowers. However, when the majority of the Committee believes that the borrower should have the opportunity to purchase the claim on himself when it is made for the sale of the lender, we believe that this could cause practical problems or consequences that we do not have an overview of at present. This issue has also not been discussed with the Hearing Officers. Our primary position is therefore that we maintain the Ministry's proposal in the proposal, which involves substantial measures to prevent the purchase of debts with unreasonable results for the borrower. When we find that we are in a minority on this point and that alternative proposals are being put forward by the Labour Party and the Advance Party/Right respectively, we will consider, as a subsidiary vote, to support the proposal of the Workers' Party. This, after all, gives the Government some time to prepare and evaluate different aspects of the borrower's right to purchase. The third and last area in which the parties to the government are not in the majority position is the obligation to disclose information and to advise against bailiffs. The minority, made up of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Center parties, share the assessment made by the Ministry when it is recommended that the obligation to discourage the guarantor should be linked to cases where the lender must understand that there is a significant risk that the borrower may fail to fulfil its obligations. In this context, I will address the proposals made by these three parties in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e322	The representative Marthinsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e326	The joy of this bill is essentially the consensus expressed both by the financial world and by consumer teams when we had consultations in the committee. It was highlighted from both sides that Norway is a country of first-hand origin which provides consumers with more protection in a serious way. I think we've all learned some of the experiences from the late 1980s and early 1990s. Political authorities saw that we might have behaved differently when it came to framework conditions that were given, the financial institutions were too far off with loans, and the consumers acted as if purchasing cards were some sort of winning card from some lottery. These experiences together showed that there was a need for a change in the law, something that we have received today. It is particularly on two points that there has been a debate. One applies to bail arrangements. I think it is positive that this is being asked of the financial institutions that in some cases they should advise against bail. This is not least because the bank will often have information about the borrower that the guarantor does not actually have. Not least, we remember from the 1980s crisis that the bailiff was not even told that the borrower had stopped paying the instalments and interest on his loans, and that things were piled up, and in many cases the bailiff was charged amounts that might have been twice as much as he had originally bailed out. That there's going to be a change here, at least it's positive. Then we're dealing with the non-advisory in loan terms. There it stands out a little differently, and there the Right Government supports the fact that in many ways we have an unregulated deterrent today that it is important to bring to the attention of financial institutions. But extending this to a formal non-advisory obligation in this law can in many ways weaken those borrowers that many of us want to help. In many smaller environments, where a bank and a borrower know each other, there could be cases where a potential borrower enjoys great confidence in the local environment, no doubt he will put his honor in paying back what he owes, but he may not have assets enough to provide collateral at the time he applies for a loan. I think that a statutory moratorium here would make the banking and financial institutions so afraid that in many cases they would not give loans they would otherwise give to people who should have received them. Here it is important that, in particular, people with ‘drive’, entrepreneurs and others whom we want should dare to take risks in their local environment, do not lose this opportunity by the fact that the banks are only occupied with securing themselves by distributing loans to those who – I kept saying – strictly may not need it. The second point of conflict is related to the right of pre-emption in the case of the sale of loans. Here, practice has evolved to some extent so that banks have dumped some loans on cheap sales to a third party, which then has gone in to recover this loan many more actively than the bank did. Not least in view of the adoption by the Stortinget of a law on debt regulation, and the Stortinget actually also granted money to the banks after the banking crisis to help them, there is reason to recall that some of this involvement by the Stortinget was, of course, justified by the fact that some of the borrowers would benefit. We thought it was a debt division between the borrower and the lender, and it was shown that the Storting was willing to contribute. When these loans were then just dumped to a third party, the bank had gotten its money far on the way, it is clear, as the Consumer Council points out, that the banks' interest in giving up part of the loan to some of the consumers was not as large as we might have expected. It is also very important to stress and make sure that when you enter into an agreement with a professional party, you have chosen to whom you want to sign the agreement. If I choose to raise a loan in the Saving Bank More, because I trust the guys sitting there, it's not the same thing as taking up a loan in some kind of AS Torpedo Knoll and Tott. I have simply chosen whom I as a consumer would like to have an agreement with. There is a minimum requirement that both information is provided to the borrower if the bank intends to sell the loan to others, and then that the borrower is given the opportunity to actually take over this loan, or redeem the loan, at least at a similar price to that offered to the third party. It is no more than fair and fair and it is an important enhancement of the consumer’s safety. A side effect of this will probably also be that banks put little more work into their debt restructuring, so that the sum can quickly be both that the bank gets in more than it would get today, and that the borrower gets out better than today. Then we've achieved an important goal. I am pleased that both the Right Party, the Labour Party and the Advance Party agree on the content of what I have now affected, attached to the pre-purchase right. Then there's a little different conclusion about whether we're going to propose the exact legal text now, or whether we're going to ask the government to evaluate it and come back with a legal text. Of course, the right will support the Workers' Party's proposal subsidiaryly, i.e. the proposal that the Government should come back with the final legislative text. I will also give tribute to Finn Kristian Marthinsen of the Christian People's Party, who announced that the Christian People's Party is also prepared to support the Workers' Party's proposal subsidiaryly, because then we have actually reached a quite broad agreement to strengthen the consumer in this case as well. Against this background, I would recommend the Financial Contracts Act that we have now arrived at. I am pleased that this debate is not marked by the major conflicts, but on the contrary by the consensus that we have taken an important step here to protect the interests of consumers, a step which will probably be noticed in Europe and which may lead to the copying of this legislation in several European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e347	On behalf of the Left, I would like to express my broad support for the draft law that is now being presented to the Odel Sting, with shades on a few points where it is in the committee. The law that will be adopted means an important protection for borrowers, and in particular for borrowers who are perceived as consumers and who are outside more professional loan conditions. It's a right and necessary law, because we've had a growth out of lender institutions that makes this gradually become a much more widespread business with lending. Getting a loan in some contexts gets more like buying an item. You have a different market than you had 20-30 years ago. To some extent, this law implies imposing on financial institutions the responsibility that I believe most banks actually managed, if we go back 20-30 years in time. In this sense, there is legislation that in many ways responds to a part of what may have happened in particular at the end of the 1980s, and is important, because it has to protect against similar situations at that time. In particular, there may be grounds for highlighting security conditions and having clear legislation that strengthens the situation of depositors. Hopefully, it will have the effect, in particular, that some persons do not enter into insurance obligations when the guarantee obligation will easily result in a liability that they had not planned in advance and that they have not really wanted to take over, precisely because they calculate that this is a responsibility that should never be taken into account. Some of the nature of the guarantee is that the person accepting the obligation does not have the same level of consciousness related to the possibility that it might become a reality. In particular, the issue of the protection of bailiffs is therefore of particular importance. Another point is the question of admissibility. There may be good reasons in particular for considering this issue carefully. There's a certain point in sticking to the borrower's responsibility, and that it doesn't have to go so far that borrowing becomes something to which one can somehow get too light a relationship, because there are others who will in that case advise against it, beyond what is practical today. On one point, I would suggest that the central parties should consider their vote a little further: if, first, a provision is adopted on the obligation to discourage the taking of a loan, it is a question of whether it should not also be informed of that obligation to discourage the guarantors. Now there is much to suggest that this would result from the current law, but there is still a question that might need to be considered a little further. If a non-advisory rule has first been adopted against the borrower, a guarantor entering into the relationship should be made aware that the borrower has been advised not to raise a loan here. Then the situation is a little different than if you don't have such a rule. In this case, with the transfer of claims, I can join in what Finn Kristian Marthinsen said. But I think maybe we should look a little bit closer to the question. In fact, my intuition is that what we are about to do here is to introduce a debt regime institution outside the debt regime law, and that this should have the perspective that the debt regime law imposes on the debt regime.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e363	It's a big and important matter for most people who Odelstinget has to deal with today. For me personally, it was a great pleasure to be able to promote such a case for Stortinget as one of the first tasks in my new department. Often it is easy to get the impression that the Ministry of Justice is a department of criminal justice and foreign affairs. This bill shows that the area is considerably wider. In the Ministry of Justice, we are responsible for a number of other areas that are important to the everyday lives of ordinary people. Today, banking agreements and consumer protection are the subject of the case. The law under consideration by Odelstinget involves a comprehensive regulation covering most types of banking agreements and other financial agreements. The law is based on the extensive work of the Banking Law Commission. The Banking Law Commission was set down in 1990 to carry out a full review of Norwegian banking and financial legislation. Part of the Commission’s mission was to propose legal rules on the contractual relationship between customers and financial institutions. The result of this work is the law adopted today. You might think that as important areas as they are here, the longest areas were regulated. It's not like that. There may be some scattered legal rules here and there, but the standard contracts of institutions have so far been able to do so alone. In drawing up the legislative proposal, the Ministry has placed great emphasis on the need for consumer protection. I am pleased that the committee has unanimously concluded on such a line. I fully agree with the Committee that regulatory regulation of financial agreements must put the consumer at the centre, because the consumer is often the weak party in such a context. At the same time, legislative regulation, as the Committee stresses, must ensure effective competition. I have noticed with pleasure that the committee believes the law takes good care of these considerations. If I'm going to draw out an area that I see as particularly important, I'm going to point out the rules on bail. Many of us also have experience in bailing in connection with borrowing. You may need a deposit to get a loan at all when you need it. But for some, the use of bail has also been the source of problems and even personal tragedies. The law will create more orderly relationships and better protection for securityists. The law lays down important principles when it is required that the guarantor be fully informed at all times about the development of the loan relationship and that the guarantor's responsibility should follow the original loan agreement even if the lender was to provide the borrower with payment deferrals. It is also essential that the borrower be entitled to a special warning if the lender has to assume on borrowing that the borrower may have difficulties in repaying the loan. I have noticed that the majority of the committee is in favour of rules on the dismissal of borrowers and bailiffs, which go beyond what the ministry proposed in the proposal. From a consumer point of view, this appears to be positive. However, when the Government abstained from proposing the rules adopted by the Committee, it was inter alia: of a certain fear that extensive deterrent rules may have unintended effects, inter alia: for the banks' willingness to accept bail as collateral and thus for the individual's ability to obtain loans. The Committee has been concerned with issues relating to the purchase of claims. I am pleased that the Committee supports the proposal in the proposal that the transfer of claims can only be made to another financial institution. At the same time, I have noticed that the majority of the committee also wants a rule that the borrower should be granted a right to purchase the claim under the same conditions as the lender is willing to sell the claim for to a third party. As I have underlined in my letter to the Committee, I see both technical and real objections to such an arrangement. But if Stortinget asks for it, of course I will come back to Stortinget with proposals for such rules. I see it in the case of natural that the proposal is prepared by the Banking Law Commission. Finally, I would like to stress that the perception of nuances in the design of a few individual proposals must not overshadow the big and important thing in this case: the government and an aggregate increase are behind a fundamental reform that will improve the position of consumers and provide significantly greater clarity in the relationship between financial institutions and their customers. Socially, it is an expression that in Norway we can learn from the terrible tragedy that occurred in the 1990 debt crisis, as I personally felt that at some point it was difficult to reach the aggregate macro-economic sizes of social economists. Then it is an advantage that there is a consumer perspective there, which the Storting is now unanimously taking with it. I have to say that it is a strength for our political system that we can take up experience in such a way, and do so in the way that happens in today's legal process.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e386	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e389	The debate has confirmed the status quo, namely that there is a high degree of agreement here on a law that ensures the highest degree of legal protection and the position of banking customers, and especially the private customer. Because we're so agreed, I won't now start to draw up a debate around one point where we're separating layers, namely, when it comes to counseling the borrower, but I just want to clarify a few things in relation to what has been said in the debate. First of all, the text of the law refers to dissuadement only when the consumer is the borrower, so that the founders of the representative Krohn Devold will not be changed because the rule does not apply in business. Then more people have shown that you have to consider it to be that such defamation exists today, and therefore it is unnecessary to put it into the law. It is possible that such defamation in practice exists today when it should take place, but we see that it does not work. The experience shows that there have been many loans that should never have been granted. It shows the entire line of indebtedness that we still have today, and of which we had not least many more in the shift between the 1980s and the 1990s. And because it is considered to be such a dissuade today, it is also considered that the general provisions of the contract law on loyalty and good contractual practices are good enough, whose dissuade has not been done. Then we actually see that it's not like that. We see in practice that it does not work. The courts do not dare to use them, they are reluctant to grant a borrower any partial or total relaxation in their loan on the basis that the financial institution, as the strong party with the necessary competence, has not properly rated the borrower. We see that the courts are reluctant to relax the borrower's obligations under the contract law. And now, when we're just making a special law to regulate financial agreements, the majority of us think that it's also appropriate to legislate the deterrent that already exists today, get it into the law, so that we can just get legal effects. It was said that it does not have legal effects, but certainly it does, because if the obligation to waive has not been met, the borrower can also discharge all or part of his obligations on the day he comes into trouble. So it's drawn out that there might be someone who doesn't get a loan at all, who should have got it. But I would say that if, after a serious credit assessment, you find that he should not take up the loan, he should not get a loan either. And finally, a side effect of this rule will also be a fairer treatment between the creditors in case of any payment problems.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e400	I was a little tempted to use the access to clarify a manifest misunderstanding, but it is possible to do so within the usual speaking time. The misunderstanding goes on what Ane Sofie Tömrås said, that I thought this was about the founders' loans to business. Of course I never believed that! But also a founder, a man with a drive, has both mortgages and car loans and a number of traditional consumer loans. It is precisely the bank and the financial institution’s confidence in this person’s ability to earn income — the income we have in paid employment — that determines whether he or she is receiving a loan or not. But of course, it's about consumer loans. But it's going to be the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e409	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 643]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e423	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e432	It is an almost unanimous committee which today recommends that the Storting adopt a number of changes in bankruptcy and mortgage law. As the rapporteur for this setting, I would like to stress the joy of these changes because they want to make life easier for a number of people. It is a goal for the Government and government parties to create ‘a simpler Norway’, and that is what I think this case illustrates in a good way. The government's objective with this proposition has been to simplify and streamline debt negotiation procedures and the settlement procedures. In this there are, among other things: to provide increased funds to the settlement and to the unpriority creditors, and to find measures to combat bankruptcy riders and financial crime. Bankruptcy and mortgage laws have a major impact on business. It is therefore important that the rules established by society are appropriate for businesses. It is important that rules and laws do not put unnecessary obstacles in the way of businesses and businesses, but instead facilitate and create a breeding ground for innovation and growth. But we can't just stimulate innovation and growth, we also have to have rules that prevent companies from keeping their business going for a long time after it's clear that their business is not the right to life. Nor can we ignore all the crimes detected through bankruptcy proceedings. It's about finding the right point of intersection between the intersecting considerations. It is a complex area of justice that we are dealing with today, but I would nevertheless venture to make the claim that, through the Government's proposal and the proceedings in the Justice Committee, we have balanced the different considerations in a good way. In 1984 a legal reform was carried out by the Debt Negotiation Institute. However, the scheme has not been used as much as expected. It is assumed that the reasons for this are that the rules are cumbersome, so that negotiations are both time-consuming and costly. Therefore, it is positive that the Government has proposed measures that will facilitate the use of the scheme. The majority of the Committee, all except the Advance Party, considers it right that there should still be a condition for opening indebtedness negotiations, that the debtor is illiquid, i.e. he/she is unable to serve his/her debts — or obligations — as they fall due. A rule similar to that proposed by the Falkanger Committee, namely that conditions for opening up debt negotiations should be that the debtor is insufficiant, i.e. having greater liabilities than the value of assets, traders will suffer unnecessarily. Especially in start-ups, it is common for the assets to represent a smaller proportion than the debt, without necessarily implying that the company does not have the right to life. A joint committee supports the Ministry's view that only the debtor himself should have access to requests for debt negotiations. It is unlikely that a debt negotiation will take place where the debtor himself is not prepared to do so, and therefore he himself should take the initiative in such debt negotiations. A unanimous committee has also supported the Ministry and the selection of the debtor’s consent to be obtained if any of the debtor’s assets are to be sold. To date, it has only been applicable for the real estate, rights of use and operational accessories of the dwelling. However, the debtor has greater access to the sale of pledged operating accessories and stocks and assets held with a sales margin. Indebtedness is the subject of this decision and the replacement right may prohibit the sale if the prospects for the cover of the pledge holders are significantly impaired. The Committee has supported this proposal, even if it leads to a slight deterioration in the position of mortgage holders. However, the Committee has placed the emphasis on the usefulness and practicality of the Debt Negotiator and that the rule serves the debtor's, debtor's debtor's and other creditors' interests. As mentioned earlier, some of the proposed legislative changes were intended to strengthen the position of unpriority creditors, and the Committee therefore considers it reasonable that the guarantor must accept a certain deterioration in its position. Furthermore, the proposal that pledges that are outside the value of the pledge should be removed by the coercive agreement will also lead to an improvement because this rule can ensure a better financial basis for the further operation of the debtor’s business. This, in turn, may result in several successful debt negotiations. The Committee is concerned that the processes should not take too long and is therefore satisfied with the Ministry's proposal that indebtedness negotiations should be concluded within six months. The increase in bankruptcy was strong in the 1980s and early 1990s. Often, there is also no money in the housing system itself, and no money for the creditors at all. An important reason for the large increase in the number of job-seekers is the wide range of mortgages open by the law of 1980. Many of the dwellings are small, and it is therefore important to have appropriate rules for them, while the rules also have to be applied to larger and heavier farmers. The Committee is in agreement with the Ministry's proposal to simplify accommodation procedures. These simplification proposals will be able to free up living resources and thus contribute to a more thorough treatment of housing. Simplification proposals are designed to leave more authority and more tasks to the administrator at the expense of more cumbersome housing bodies, such as the creditor committee and the change collection. The transfer right is also relieved of certain tasks. Today's rule of exception in the bankruptcy law § 141 on simplified settlement is repealed, and instead becomes the general rule on how the proceedings are to be conducted. The Committee is satisfied with the changes proposed by the Ministry and indicates that there is a large degree of legislative adaptation of the practices already carried out. Furthermore, the Committee has supported the Ministry in that the statutory auditor and the accounting officer are required to deliver the debtor's accounts and accounting material. However, the auditor and the accountant may withhold self-produced material if they have not received settlement or no collateral has been provided for the settlement. As a general rule, a drill visor shall be appointed, but there shall be no mandatory arrangement. If a drill visor is not appointed, the replacement right shall appoint a person to audit the accounts of the accommodation separately. The Committee would stress that it is important that all should be reviewed and checked. The Committee has supported the Ministry's proposal that the right to pledge includes expenditure on the conservation and supervision of the pledge. The Committee has also supported the Ministry's proposal that there should be continued access to subscribers, i.e. that the estate cancels the bankruptcy charge of the assets and the debtor regains its natural and legal assets. An important and welcome point is the Ministry's proposal to introduce a general provision on the obligation to notify residents if the establishment is presumed to cause pollution which is not lawful without a permit under the pollution law. Although it probably doesn't apply to a large number of farmers, the rule is essentially important. The Committee has asked the Ministry to monitor developments in this area closely. In the case of financial crime, the Committee took note of the Ministry’s information that as many as two out of three bankruptcy residents suspected of being in competition. In particular, two measures are important to combat competition. Firstly, there is the availability of sufficient means of dealing with the case and, secondly, the availability of sufficient resources for the prosecution to follow up the bankruptcy proceedings quickly. The Committee welcomes the introduction of a separate provision on information obligations for residents and borers. It shall provide information on possible criminal relations with the prosecution authority as early as possible. At the same time, the public guarantee scheme is extended to include the prosecution of civil claims against persons who are in bankruptcy. Compliance with civil law requirements may well be as effective as pursuing matters based on criminal liability. It is positive that the position of the contract of employment in the event of bankruptcy is now regulated. The majority of the Committee considers it reasonable that the time at which the period of notice is due to begin must be the time at which the notice is given, and not the time at which the opening of the bankruptcy is opened. With regard to the operational accessories range, it was found in the hearings that the current system is not working well. Per. Today, operating accessories shall be displayed together with real estate in order to obtain legal protection. The Committee has been made aware that a great deal of time and resources are being used to ensure that all the properties to which the business can be said to be linked have been pledged. In the worst case, if a property is not disposed of, the pledge may no longer have legal protection. When today's mortgage law was dealt with, the Ministry of Justice proposed that the operating accessories should be disclosed in the Løsøreregister, regardless of real estate. The Judicial Committee then opposed the proposal. On the other hand, today’s Justice Department is convinced that the current legal situation is not satisfactory. There have been slightly different opinions about how strongly the comments on this point should be formulated, so here the committee has shared. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party have asked the department to have the area for observation and possibly come back to the Stortinget with proposals for legislative changes. We have confidence that the department will look closely at the matter and do its job to correct the unfortunate outbursts of today's legislation. The second major question is the proposal to introduce a legal security deposit of 5 pst. The proposal implies that 5 pst. the value of the pledged items shall be reserved for the consideration. This shall contribute to the provision of funds to enable the residence to operate. The legal mortgage also means that there is more to be paid in dividends. This means that the unpriority creditors can also get something back. The proposal to introduce the legal pledge has produced strong reactions in parts of the business community. Among other things, there has been a question about the 5 pst. limit should apply no matter how much it represents. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party have placed great emphasis on the fact that the scheme should lead to business carrying this kind of expenditure. It is also those who gain if the business goes well. Raising the claimant’s fee means, in practice, simply increasing public expenditure, since it is mainly shifting rights, i.e. the public that seeks bankruptcy. We believe it is wrong to impose additional public expenditure. In addition, the Christian People's Party believes there are good reasons to ensure that the unpriority creditors also get some of the values of the dwelling. If we don't manage to get into a system that gives the peasants greater resources, it means in practice that we haven't come as far as we could wish in the fight against competition crime and economic crime, and it seems that the Christian People's Party is sad.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e481	The bankruptcy institute and all the rules around it are absolutely necessary for us to have a viable business. Controlling the burden-sharing between the parties that contribute financially and reap economic benefits in the business sector is absolutely necessary. We know that both the structure, the conditions and the economic environment in the business world are constantly changing. We know that the bankruptcy law reached the confirmation age this spring, and the mortgage law became valid a couple of years ago. That is why it was time for a full review and a post-control of the laws. That's what I think I've been done very thoroughly in the NOU of the Falkanger Committee. It shows very clearly that there is a need for a clean-up and simplification of the rules in this system. Many of the rules are today such that unnecessary work is required, and the good solutions are not applied because they are cumbersome to practice. In addition, we also see that many people wait too long to request a quote when the store is poor. We have too much pledge. Often all the values in the dwelling are pledged. That means that there will be little disappearing and perhaps nothing left for the creditors, who do not have mortgage insurance for their claims. Not least, there will be little or nothing left to live. So the settlement process is weakened. It is quite alarming that in three out of four bankruptcies the accommodation is cancelled before they have finished the job because there is not enough money left in the dwelling. It clearly illustrates that the law does not actually work as it should. And it's particularly worrying when we know that in the context of the bankruptcy houses where you get proper housing, there is also a lot of crime. I think the proposition has worked well with one of the main challenges, namely to simplify the rules. In several fields, we get simpler and more flexible rules in terms of accommodation, and we get more flexible rules that make debt negotiations easier. And if we get more voluntary agreements, we might also avoid more bankruptcy. There are also some good measures to achieve the second main objective, namely to get more money into residence, so that creditors without mortgage security can also meet some of their demands, and that we get proper housing. But here are several steps that need to be taken. It has proved to be very difficult to find measures that ensure adequate means of living, and here this proposition has not come to fruition. This is difficult, for example. to limit the right to pledge, because it again turns negative on the other side, in order to obtain credit to be able to operate. Different solutions have been launched, but they also have their worrisome aspects. The working party is therefore not in favour of the proposed legal security of 5 pst. Now. However, we cannot support the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party to increase the applicant's liability. That is the sum that the applicant must provide as a guarantee of the operation of accommodation. It is essentially the public that requests a tender because of the lack of tax and VAT payments, and we are concerned that it is right that it is the public that is now to be charged with ensuring that there are funds in the dwelling, when we know that it is largely private who reaps the economic benefits of an enterprise when it goes well. They should then also bear the burden on them on the day of the settlement. Other solutions have also been launched, both in the NOU and in the proposition, and not least in the case of recordings that we have received during the treatment of this, such as bankruptcy insurance schemes, to allocate a certain amount to a blocked account, that principals should be objectively responsible for up to some maximum amount – principals may be the Executive Director, the Chairperson or the members of the board – and different models of legal security arrangements, which may not be the model proposed here. Other models of the law-entrustment system may also be considered. This has not been properly evaluated and discussed in the proposition. There may also be solutions that are not launched, but that can be there when you work on it. That is why we ask the Government to come back with more thorough investigations, where one also looks at the consequences of the various proposals, a thorough investigation of how we can ensure greater values in our lives on the day of bankruptcy and settlement. Another point that we in the Workers' Party are concerned with is the employees when it comes to bankruptcy. We believe that it should be an objective that employees should be minimised as a result of the bankruptcy. Now it is the case that the residence must decide within three weeks whether you want to continue the operation and enter into the contract of employment. If you do, we believe that it must be a goal that the employees do not come out worse than they would have done for the other type of transfer of the business. We can refer to the LO hearing opinion, where they suggest that the residence should enter into the collective bargaining agreement when it first enters into the work agreement. Often, part of the collective bargaining agreement has been incorporated into the personal employment agreements, and it can therefore be equally easy to enter into the whole collective bargaining agreement. Another way to do so is that quite new Chapter XII(A) of the Working Environment Act, which deals with transfer rules, can also be applied in the case of a transfer in the event of a bankruptcy. I hope that the Government will follow developments in this area, how the employee situation is and remains in various bankruptcies, look at these issues, and that it may come back to the matter later. It is important to have access to the security of operational accessories, as also stated by the case-rapporteur. Although we have problems that a lot, and sometimes all of the values, are pledged, operating accessories are necessary for many businesses. So now it turns out that today's system raises a lot of practical problems, because one of them has to pledge it with real estate. One thing is that it's getting heavy, as the rapporteur pointed out, but perhaps even more important is that it's not very suitable in today's structure in business, because now it's no longer so that you set up one building on one plot, and that's the company. It is often the case that one has, for the first time, spread both domestically and abroad. In addition, technology has made us bring goods and services in many places and have businesses, roots, in many places, without that means that you have a real estate where the operation is going on. Therefore, the Workers' Party agrees with the proposal that, in the case of operational accessories, legal protection should be provided by registration in the Løsøreregister. Finally, I just want to say a little bit about financial crime in bankruptcy. We are very pleased that the public guarantee scheme will now also apply when you want to pursue the civil law requirements. That's a very good suggestion. Because it is that a civil claim to someone who has gone bankrupt will injure as much as a criminal claim, sometimes even more, and it will also lead to us being able to give rights to those who have a claim against the one who has gone bankrupt. Otherwise, I would like to point out that Ecokrim has made proposals for further action and adjustments, and I really welcome a follow-up to this by the Government. There is no doubt that we need even stronger efforts in this area. What has been proposed is good, but unfortunately it is not enough. There's a lot of crime in bankruptcy, and the fact that the housing services are so much canceled, that there's a lot we don't know about. So there's more to it than that. I therefore expect that this is not the last time the laws in this area get some rounds in Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e513	Should the representative make any proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e516	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e521	Now the President will follow closely with this. There are several proposals that have been forgotten. This is a proposal from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e524	Then, of course, I would like to take the opportunity to include the proposal in the vote by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e529	The representative of St. Thomas has taken up the proposal to which she referred. Besides the list of speakers, the president will give the floor to Finn Kristian Marthinsen, who also has something to say.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e534	I thank you for the opportunity to correct a forgetfulness. On behalf of the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, I would like to raise the suggestions 3 and 4 that are included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e541	The representative Marthinsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e545	The Progress Party will point out that some of the proposals being promoted will hard hit capital-intensive businesses, without improving the situation of the majority of the ‘empty’ bankruptcies described in the law. We believe it is important to design bankruptcy and mortgage laws so that they do not unduly hamper or prejudge the access to capital of businesses, whether small, medium-sized or large. The Progress Party wants the law to open up access to debt negotiations in the event of insufficiencies and not just in the event of illiquidity, as proposed by the Committee on bankruptcy law. We are committed to preventing the law from bringing businesses to an end at an early stage. Too strict a law could easily lead to the completion of new start-ups before they are proved to have the right to life. Opening up debt negotiations through insufficiency will improve the possibilities of refinancing before the situation becomes so critical that cessation of activity becomes difficult to avoid. The Progress Party believes that it is important in risk phases that companies keep their creditors informed about the situation. Should a need for a debt regime arise, it will be easier to convince creditors that debt regimes that ensure continued operation are also for the benefit of creditors. In line with this, we will propose the following amendment to Section 1 of the Bankruptcy Act: ‘A debtor who is unable to meet his obligations as they fall due or whose assets are not sufficient to fully cover his obligations may request the opening of a debt negotiation under the rules of the law to negotiate with its creditors a voluntary arrangement or an arrangement of compulsion.’;» The Christian People's Party and the Central Party are only concerned with these comments, as the rapporteur was also concerned with, in view of the scope of the operating accessories. It is a majority who believe that the current system of operating accessories is not satisfactory. The requirement that the legal protection of the operating accessories should be linked to real estate causes practical problems and limits access to capital to business. The requirements for the pledge of the operational accessory must be assessed in the light of the good experience gained in the case of pledges of a similar nature, such as warehouses, motor vehicles and plant buckets, agricultural pawns and fishing gear buckets. These appear as independent pledges of entire assets as they are at all times and where legal protection is obtained by registration in the Lösøreregister. This type of pledge should be considered satisfactory both for pawnbrokers and pawnbrokers and be in line with the wishes of the business community. We would point out that the development of business is moving towards the fact that, for an increasing number of enterprises, there is no longer any functional context in which the operating accessories of enterprises are made up of durable capital items. In this context, information technology activities can be mentioned, which are more and more widespread. I would also like to point out that several of the hearing bodies, among others. The NHO and the Banking Association have raised objections to the current pledge regime in respect of operating accessories, because the connection to real estate complicates the scheme unnecessarily. They wish that pledges in operating accessories can be obtained with registration in the Solver register and without mortgages being linked to real estate. It is proposed to amend Sections 3 to 4, in line with the views of those hearing bodies. Such a change in the law will bring with it some regulatory issues related to the transitional rules, specialties of the mortgage law §§3-8 and 3-10 etc. The progress party does not want the introduction of a legal pledge of 5 pst. of all pledged assets in a bankruptcy dwelling. This will lead to a distortion of other mortgage holders and access to capital will be significantly more expensive for business, particularly in the context of the bankrupt sector. We're of the opinion that there's minimal in the smaller estates with pledged assets. The Progress Party considers it necessary to be aware that the public as a priority creditor with a 5 pst legal pledge. will be able to receive large amounts from private mortgage depositors. Thus, the public will easily be placed in a more favourable position than other mortgage holders. The effect of this could be that the public would be able to cover its claims to a greater extent than before at the expense of other mortgage holders. The public is often behind the demand for bankruptcy, especially against small traders and small businesses. The proposal for a legal pledge provides a weakened access to capital for business, and the consequences of such a scheme have not been adequately emphasised. The Ministry also goes significantly beyond the legal range when it is proposed that legal pledges should always be paid to the residence and not be limited only to housing costs. There is also no proposed roof on the size of the mortgage. In the properties of highly valuable pledged assets, such as ships and drilling platforms, large amounts could be transferred from the mortgage holders to the public as a priority creditor. Should legal pledges be introduced, the amount of the legal pledge may have to be limited to the necessary housing costs for which there is otherwise no cover. Excess amounts after the completion of the settlement must be returned to the pledge holders. We would like to show that, as far as we are aware, similar arrangements are not in place in other countries. This means that actors operating in an international environment and in a competitive market must be at a higher price of credit than their competitors. In relation to ships registered in NOR, the rule will apply in full. The same would initially be true for ships registered in NIS, but the NIS Act allows for derogations for parts of Norwegian legislation, cf. Article 3 of the NIS Act. In the case of ships registered abroad, the 5 pst rule does not apply. This is why we propose that instead of introducing a legal security scheme, the amount of the claimant, i.e. the amount guaranteed for the costs of the accommodation, should be increased from NOK 20 000 to, for example, NOK 30 000. This will satisfy the desire to strengthen the rule of law in the event of bankruptcy in general small and medium-sized enterprises. In the case of major companies or shipping companies, there are normally values in residence for bankruptcy proceedings. This solution is also recommended by the Bankruptcy Council. It will ensure the place of action proposed by the Falkanger Committee, while preventing adverse impacts on industries with capital-intensive activities, such as shipping and shipping, workshop and offshore activities. In line with this, we would like to propose the following: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess the amount of advance payments made to ensure the cost of accommodation [[Republic responsibility]] I'm addressing the suggestions that I've referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e573	The representative Stang has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e576	There has been agreement on a lot in the new bankruptcy and mortgage law, but there are in particular two issues that have aroused some heated debate in the business world. First of all, I should like to make my comments on these two issues. One applies to the operating range. Today it is very complicated to use the current scheme, and in the committee we presented an example from the NHO related to Ulstein Holding ASA. This company had 79 different property statements and a number of property-loving leases. In order to secure this operating accessory, each of the property masses had to be given a separate fare and the property-loving leases had to be transferable. This meant that the local bank that Ulstein used in More and Romesdal spent 2-3 months to enable a pledge of the operating equipment in a large Norwegian company – 2-3 months! It is not surprising that the bank and companies met hand in hand in the Justice Committee and asked thinly that we set up a system here that could allow this work to take 2-3 hours instead by registering in the Solver Register. It is so obvious that it makes sense to support this system regardless of the history of both the Committee and elsewhere, that we are now looking forward to the Government coming forward with concrete follow-up proposals in line with the position of the majority of the Judicial Committee – consisting of the Right, the Advance Party and the Labour Party. The second theme that has been promoted is the law-enforcement scheme, i.e. to introduce a legal deposit of 5 pst. of all pledged assets in a bankruptcy dwelling. There have been massive reactions from both the very smallest enterprises, often represented by HSH, to large capital-intensive industrial enterprises, and the shipping industry, which is also large and capital intensive. Most people have reacted very strongly to the fact that access to capital to business in this way is becoming much more expensive. HSH pointed out that this would affect a number of common small enterprises and that it could actually go so far as to require some small enterprises to cease their activities as a result of this capitalisation. A clear recommendation from HSH was to look at the applicant's responsibility instead. It is also in line with the signals we received from the NHO in the hearing, and that is what makes the Progress Party and the Right propose it in concrete terms. This 5 pst legal security. As I said, it will cost the capital both to the small enterprises and to the large enterprises, such as shipping companies and industrial enterprises. We got an example from the Swedish Shipowners' Association that illustrates this quite well. The acquisition of a new main tank costs 539 million. kr. To bind up 5 pst. of these funds amount to 27 million. kr, which then has to be financed more expensively through unsecured credit. This is about amounts that are so large that it will dramatically worsen the competitiveness of Norwegian shipping industries and also the competitiveness of large Norwegian companies vis-à-vis the rest of the world. When the Storting has also created a NIS register, both because we want the fleet to remain Norwegian, and because we want to strengthen Norwegian shipping industry, it is not logical to come up with a 5 pst. system that works in the opposite direction, and as yet makes NIS a much less attractive ship register than the foreign ones we compete with. I am therefore very pleased that the Committee majority, the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right, rejects the 5 pst. scheme. It would have been desirable if you could also be in the alternative way that the Right Party and the Advance Party will solve the same problem, but I understand that the Workers' Party wants to first explore the different options before taking a decision. So I'll have to link some comments to a third theme. The position of the Progress Party is to allow the insufficiency to give itself the right to enter into and renegotiate debts. I want to remind you that having a larger debt than equity is something most companies have in a start-up phase. It's natural in an initial phase. I want to draw a parallel to what it's like to be a newly educated student, with a high student loan and with a mortgage. So you have big debts and no equity. But it's just in confidence that over the years you'll be able to pay off the debt and end up with a positive asset stock, and eventually you'll actually get so far that you'll get a property tax. That's the development we're all going through, and far on the way, that's the way with the businesses as well. If, simply because one has a larger debt than equity, it is open to ask for renegotiations or, worse still, to be bankrupt at an early stage, it is neither a good thing for the companies nor a good thing for those who have lent them. I am therefore pleased that only the Progress Party has agreed to this arrangement, and that the rest of the Committee rejects it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e591	I am pleased to note that long-term work on changes in bankruptcy and mortgage laws is being carried out at Odelstinget. It is also a comprehensive legislative proposal on which the representatives are to decide today. Work on the revision of bankruptcy law started as a back-up to the bankruptcy law and the recovery law, with the establishment of the Falkanger Committee in 1990. The selection was specifically asked to assess changes in order to add more capital to the housing. This led the sample to address in particular the question of suspension residence and how bankruptcy can be provided in order to strengthen the treatment of residents. The committee made a number of proposals. The Ministry, after careful consideration of the need to ensure safe accommodation and the legal position of the pawnbrokers in bankruptcy, chose to proceed with only some of the most far-reaching suggestions from the sample. I believe that the balance that was made in Ot.prp. No 26 for 1998-99, a proper assessment of these issues. However, I must note that the majority of the Judicial Committee is opposed to the most important of these proposals, namely the proposal to introduce a rule on 5 pst. legal security for the residence. However, the committee setting provides largely unanimous support for most of the proposal. This applies to the proposals relating to the simplification of the debt negotiation and bankruptcy proceedings, the amendments to the coverage law and most of the changes to the pledge law. I am pleased with that and will, in the following, just refer comments to the proposals where it has arisen this one. The majority of the members of the Judicial Committee oppose the proposal to put in place a legal security mechanism to secure funds for the proceedings. The representatives of the Workers' Party promote proposals where the Government is asked to investigate different ways to ensure that there are enough values to operate properly in residential care, while the Right and Advance Party will ask the Government to assess the increase in candidate liability. As the relationship is today, most householders feel that living constantly is in a very difficult economic situation. Therefore, funds are required for housing. Both the Falkanger Committee and the proposal deal with the different options to provide the living more resources and have assessed the situation so that a legal security scheme would be the best solution to give the living more money to work for. It should also be noted that this proposal received broad support in the consultation round. Several of the arrangements reviewed in the proposition also require that the dwelling has a certain amount of funds available. The situation in most residents is that there are no means to work for the most part. Therefore, drastic measures are necessary to raise the capital of the residents. I am of the opinion that a law-abiding system would be the best way to ensure better housing. First of all, a provision of 5 pst. be practical and legally easy to follow. It would provide a good predictability for the pawnbrokers. In any event, if the proposal for a legal tender is not now put into effect, it will be necessary to re-examine these matters in order to carry out further assessments of the question of administering the fine. I would like to point out that the alternatives that the Workers' Party's representatives point out regarding the establishment of an insurance scheme, issues of objective liability for the members of the board and the Executive Director and the increase in the applicant's liability are mentioned in the proposal. However, the work on investigating these issues could take some time. Therefore, housing will still have to experience demanding conditions in the future. In connection with the proposal concerning the applicant's liability, I have noticed that the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party are proposing to increase the amount of the advance payment provided to ensure the settlement. An increase in the claimant's liability will result in an increase in the costs of public bankruptcy claimants. When it is claimed that the public is bankrupt in the vast majority of the bankruptcies that are being opened, the proposal will result in a not insignificant increase in public expenditure. Moreover, an increase in the applicant's liability could mean that even fewer private individuals than today would be seeking bankruptcy. I believe that the parties related to business activities should be as much as possible those who bear the costs of bankruptcy. This means mainly the players in the business community and not the public. As regards questions relating to the amendment of the rules on the pledge of operating accessories, I have noticed that the majority of the committee is in favour of the Stortinget asking the Government to submit proposals for changes to the mortgage law, so that legal protection is achieved by registration in the Solver register, instead of in the current law in the base book. Of course, I will follow up on this. The proposition points to conditions under which the pledge of operating accessories should be made in relation to the real estate. This applies, inter alia, to: taking into account that operating accessories often form a natural and functional unit with the immovable property and that the applicable law has simpler provisions for legal protection in the event of ownership change. I will initially join these concerns with regard to the amendment of the legal protection rules for mortgages in operating accessories. Since the proposals of the Falkanger Committee on restrictions on factoring and mortgages in warehouses were not continued, a change in the legal protection rules for operational accessories would actually lead to an extension of the right to pledge. This is in the opposite direction to what must be considered as the main objective of the legislative proposals, namely to add funds raised to the bankruptcy proceedings. But, of course, I am very pleased that the simplification proposals that have been promoted are being endorsed, and I will of course continue to work on the opening of the Labour Party proposal, which I have also understood that the government parties consider subsidiaryly to support.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e617	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 659]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e631	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to the exchange of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and after the submissions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e642	As a result of the consent of the Storting to ratify the cooperation agreement between Norway, Iceland and the Schengen countries, we are currently examining changes to the Foreign Affairs Act, the Extradition Act, the Police Act and the Criminal Code. In addition, we are dealing with a completely new law on the Schengen Information System, the so-called SIS Act. The debate today is therefore not a debate for or against Schengen cooperation. It is now all about bringing Norwegian legislation into line with the Schengen acquis. When we discussed the agreement itself on 26 April of this year, I commended the Government that the absolute right of cancellation of the agreement makes it better than the original agreement of December 1996. This time I will also praise the Government for a very good and thorough work, so that the agreement can be put into practice in line with the Storting's assumptions. Everyone knows what positions the three government parties initially had on the Schengen cooperation and that the Government was to negotiate an agreement with the EU after Schengen became part of the EU. The Christian People's Party, in a committee comment, explains its original view, but further says that on the basis of the government's proposed proposals for ratification and the treatment of the Inst. S. No 147 for 1998-99 the members of the Christian People's Party in the Committee join the proposed legislative proposal – a clean and straightforward act! Based on the ratification process, I also have reason to believe that the same will apply to the Left. Worse is the matter with the Center Party. During the ratification debate and the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee, we were shown the need for the party to play an opposition role while they are in position. This impression has been further reinforced during the committee treatment of this odelstungsproposition. As mentioned at the outset, the implementation of the already adopted agreement in Norwegian legislation is now at stake. The party not only adheres to critical committee remarks but even promotes proposals that go against the Government’s recommendation. In normal circumstances, it would not be possible to continue in a government with such an act. The special parliamentary situation nevertheless makes it possible. In fact, this abnormal situation has become so normal that even the press seems to overlook it in an unsustainable situation. The Treaty of Amsterdam transfers certain parts of judicial cooperation from Pillar III to Pillar I in EU cooperation. This applies, inter alia, to: external and internal border control and asylum policy. Schengen opponents have claimed that by doing so, we are giving away national governance. The foreign minister’s reply to the Foreign Affairs Committee on this issue is clarifying by saying that the procedures and procedure for Norway and Iceland should be bound by a proposed Schengen rule, regardless of which pillar each provision falls within the EU system. Thus, this is also of no importance in relation to the law we are now adapting to the Schengen Agreement. As regards the legislative changes in the Foreign Affairs Act, it is clear that Norway remains free to define Norwegian asylum and refugee policies. The answers given by Vollebæk and Dørum to the Foreign Affairs Committee show that this is also the view of the Government. The amendment to Section 17 of the Foreign Affairs Act, whereby the exemption from the right of asylum shall also include refugees who may be required to be received by other countries associated with the Dublin Convention, is complied with as the other exemption rules set out in the second paragraph of Section 17, which states: ‘The right to return a refugee to another country... shall not be used if the refugee has a connection with the Kingdom which makes Norway the closest to providing protection to the refugee’. The Dublin Convention, which replaces the Schengen Convention as regards the responsibility for the handling of asylum cases, states: ‘Each Member State shall have the right to deal with an application for asylum submitted to it by a foreigner, even if the examination of the application does not depend on it in accordance with the criteria laid down in this Convention, provided that the applicant for asylum agrees to it.’; In my view, this means that individual Schengen countries are given great freedom to take asylum applications during treatment, although the starting point of the Dublin Convention is that only one country should be responsible for examining an asylum application. A very great advantage of allowing the Dublin Convention to apply is that the problem of ‘refugee in orbit’, i.e. the cases where no State accepts responsibility for the asylum seeker will be greatly reduced. For Norwegian asylum authorities, this can be a very serious problem in some cases today. It is natural that, as a result of Article 6 of the Schengen Convention, the principle of permanent exit control is laid down in the Foreign Affairs Act. Termination of internal border control is the very basic idea of Schengen cooperation, and is the same starting point as we already have in the Nordic passport union. I would also point out, as the majority of the Committee says in the vote, that without an agreement between Norway and the EU on Schengen cooperation, it would be necessary for our neighbouring countries Sweden, Finland and Denmark to establish an external Schengen border with Norway. It is worth noting that the Government’s clarification that the absence of checks at the internal Schengen border applies to both Schengen citizens and third-country nationals. As Norway and the EU are two autonomous customs territories, it is also important to establish that customs legislation applies when internal borders are crossed. The Labour Party is also very pleased that we now state in the law that it is possible, through a regulatory body, to provide detailed rules on entry and exit control and on derogations from the provisions on crossing the internal Schengen border. This latter is necessary in relation to Article 2 (2) of the Schengen Convention. 2, where it is established that where public policy or the security of the State so requires, a Contracting Party may, after consulting the other Contracting Parties to the Convention, decide that national border controls shall be carried out at internal borders for a limited period of time and adapted to the situation. The proposition provides good examples of cases where this provision has been used, including: when France introduced internal border checks under the football World Cup to prevent unwanted football mobs from entering the country. As regards the possibility of expulsion on entry, I will briefly mention the clarification that is now proposed in Section 27(c). This is a consequence of the Schengen Convention, which states that a foreigner may be expelled if he is unable to establish the stated purpose of the stay. In relation to a particular issue that is particularly relevant to our northernmost parts of the country in these days, an overall committee, as expressed by the South Varanger police district, considers that this should be of practical importance for the possible rejection of tourists who provide highly unlikely information on the purpose of their visit or stay in Norway. So a few words about the proposal of the Border Transitional Committee on the practical implementation of the external border control. The recommendation for 81 border crossing points with 310 access points is very satisfactory. The objective of non-blocking border control measures to the pursuit of business seems to have been well-managed. This applies not least to the control of third-country fishing vessels. It is very reasonable for the Government to propose that the establishment and operation of the Schengen Information System, SIS, be regulated by law. SIS will become important in the context of the exercise of a common external border control and will also be an important contribution to effective police cooperation in the Schengen area. It is worth noting that since the SIS became operational in March 1995, Schengen countries have had far more opportunities to apprehend wanted persons and to return stolen items. It is important to look at SIS as another important tool in the fight against international organised crime. If there is something in today's modern societies that is cross-border, it is precisely this type of crime, and then we must also be involved in facilitating an international cross-border cooperating police force. As I expressed it in the previous Schengen debate: ‘The boundaries must not be a greater barrier to the police than to drug syndicates, terrorists and other cross-border criminals.’ This is the important starting point for all international police cooperation, namely the fight against crime for the common benefit of the citizens of each country, through Schengen cooperation, Europol or Interpol. As far as Europol is concerned, it is interesting and pleasant to record that the representative of the Central Party in the Justice Committee in the Official Journal of Bergen on 3 June says a clear yes to Europol. Then the scepticism shown by the same Tor Nymo in connection with the possibility of police in the Schengen countries to pursue and observe another area of the Schengen countries becomes quite incomprehensible. For Norway, in practice, officials from Sweden and Finland will be involved. Back to the SIS Act: The Workers' Party is pleased that Section 10 of the Act states that information in the SIS register should not be used for purposes other than those for which it is registered. Another important point is that the information entered in the Norwegian SIS becomes correct and in accordance with Norwegian law. Therefore, as the Ministry also does, it is necessary to point out the need for strict quality control in order to avoid incorrect registrations. I believe that the use of the SIS places great emphasis on privacy, and I am pleased to record that the Government seems to place this emphasis on the organisation of our connection to the SIS. The fact that privacy concerns have been clarified especially in the purpose of the law, we believe that the Workers' Party is very good. Otherwise, it is worth recording that this is at one of the points where the representative of the Central Party in the Committee does not have particular confidence in the Government's arrangements and assurances. Furthermore, it is also appropriate to mention that a judicial remedy is provided to the Ministry of Justice for the decision taken in respect of the requirements of transparency, correction, erasure and compensation. In this context, data protection has also been given a role that is reassuring, both in terms of privacy and legal certainty. In addition, the overall control function of the data controller in relation to the SIS is well worth noting. Finally, I am now pleased that today, through the necessary legislative changes, the Storting will follow up on the ratification of the cooperation agreement between Norway, Iceland and the Schengen countries, so that the agreement can be put into practice in line with the Storting's own assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e719	The Christian People's Party Group voted against Norway joining the Schengen cooperation. Ot. pp. No 56 as the central government has presented, and as we are debating today, the changes that Norway is obliged to implement as a result of the Storting majority decision on Norwegian accession. The Christian People's Party joins the proposals. The Government’s legislative amendment proposal involves the most appropriate implementation of the Schengen acquis in Norwegian legislation and practice. The Christian People's Party has therefore chosen to have a brief explanatory comment under the general section, and in the rest of the vote we are included in the Committee's/majority's comments. That is why I can also refer to the thorough review that the rapporteur now had on the content of the matter. The Christian People's Party is pleased that a separate law is adopted to regulate the processing of data within the Schengen Information System. It takes into account, for example: information security internal control conditions for the recording of which information may be recorded for the provision of information to any person entitled to access and erasure of information and the tasks of the Data Protection Authority All of this is key to important issues that the Christian People's Party believes it is essential to have in place when entering into this form of international cooperation. This is well taken care of in the bill. It is also important – and reassuring – that Section 10 of the law states that data in the SIS register cannot be used for purposes other than those for which they are registered. The Christian People's Party has no objection to the necessary changes to the Foreign Affairs Act. We are also pleased that the proposal for a separate European Convention on Refugees is being put at risk, and that the question may be raised again when circumstances permit. The Dublin Convention is a future issue of negotiation, but we see that this Convention can be used as a basis for the handling of asylum applications. Together with Section 17 of the Foreign Affairs Act, we will be able to provide the best possible care for the refugees. Furthermore, we see the clear advantage of the Dublin Convention in that the problem of ‘refugee in orbit’, i.e. cases where no State assumes responsibility are severely reduced. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Government that it is right to establish a new and clear legal framework in relation to the functioning of foreign police officers on Norwegian soil and that it is directly linked to Schengen cooperation. It is equally important that the authorisation for the observation, prosecution and arrest of a person by foreign police officers applies only until the Norwegian police authority has assumed responsibility for the operation, or has required it to be stopped. The clarification in the law that the authorisation applies only as far as it follows the international agreement in the context of Schengen cooperation is important. Foreign police officers shall not exercise police authorities on equal terms with Norwegian police officers but shall be limited to continuing the ongoing observation and follow-up of the person concerned. The Norwegian police themselves have to assess whether the conditions for arrest are in accordance with Norwegian law. For the Christian People’s Party, it is important that foreign officials in Norwegian territory are bound by both Norwegian law and the Schengen Convention and must comply with the requirements of the relevant Norwegian authority. In the case of the authorisation of foreign police officers to carry weapons under mandate in Norway, one must take a practical look at it, because they cannot necessarily throw away the weapons on the border. However, it is clear that they should follow the Norwegian restrictions that allow the use of weapons only when an emergency situation exists. In the proposition, page 95, we can read: ‘The Ministry will, once a certain experience has been gained with such a scheme, carry out an evaluation of the scheme and the legislative regulation currently proposed.’ That Christian People's Party seems to be reassuring. The proposal contains a description of the administrative and economic consequences that participation in Schengen cooperation will entail. The Christian People's Party understands that it is currently difficult to accurately quantify investments and increase operating costs. However, it must be taken into account that there will be an expenditure item in the future government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e791	The Schengen Agreement we are discussing today concerns changes in both the Foreign Affairs Act, the Extradition Act, the Police Act and the Criminal Code, and the most pleasant fact is that all parties in the Committee will vote in favour of the existing legislative proposal, with a few single proposals from the Central Party. What is the basic idea behind the Schengen Agreement is among other things. Europe wants the same benefits of passport freedom as we in the Nordic countries have gained. It has been very important for Norway to maintain the agreement on passport freedom between Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Norway. We would have lost that access if we did not get this Schengen agreement, and then I think it must be possible to have an understanding that other European countries too want the same system between themselves. I also think it is important to point out that there may be some practical problems in effectively exercising foreign control. At least it is important that we take a closer look at the issues. That is why a unanimous committee has also referred to the Oslo Police District opinion, asking for rules to be drawn up for new control procedures that do not conflict with the agreement, which will ensure that the police have sufficient control. I would also like to point out paragraph 27c, which states that a foreigner can be expelled if he cannot make visible the stated purpose of his stay in Norway. § 27c may have had a special relevance to some of the problems we now have in North Norway, and then I think of what is called Russian whore traffic. We are all aware of the pressures that this traffic has exerted on some of the small communities in North Norway. I am also very pleased that the Minister of Justice has been up there and expressed the wish that this is something he will help to bring an end to. And when South Varanger police districts point out that this rule in the Schengen Agreement could actually have practical significance in rejecting tourists who provide very unlikely information about the background of their stay in Norway, yes, then there is a positive thing to bring with them, and then, in fact, the Schengen agreement has also helped us with things that we have not yet been able to solve in our own legislation – at least not as we have practiced it. One of the themes that was a lot of scare-mongering around in the previous EU election campaign was external border control. Many people were afraid, perhaps in North Norway, that this outer border control would almost make it impossible to deliver Russian fish to some of our important fish recipients, etc. Here, too, it is gratifying that a unanimous committee refers to the border crossing committee and the work it has done on the practical implementation of the external border control. We have a very flexible system here. This sample has recommended 81 border crossing points and a total of 310 access points. So also in this area, the practical result has been far more positive than what could be feared when you heard the horrors of those who were skeptical of the Schengen Agreement. All members of the Committee, with the exception of the Centre Party, believe that the SIS, the Schengen Information System, is a very important prerequisite for carrying out a common external border control and maintaining effective police cooperation. This gives us both the opportunity to apprehend wanted people and to return stolen items. In this way, SIS can play an important role in the fight against internationally organised crime. We all know that the way crime develops in Norway and in our neighbouring countries is that it has international ramifications, and the criminals don't see the boundaries to the same degree as we do. That we thus get a third leg to stand on in addition to Europol and Interpol is important for our ability to do something about the crime we all have an interest in fighting. One point of the Schengen Convention refers to relations with foreign police officers on Norwegian soil. The Committee and the Right are satisfied that the authorisation of foreign police officers for observation, prosecution and enforcement is valid only until the Norwegian police authority has assumed responsibility for the operation or has required it to be stopped. But the possibility of this cooperation and the possibility that, in some cases, we can allow foreign officials to operate on Norwegian soil will probably give us far more benefits than disadvantages. And there is also reason to stress that in practice this will be about officials from Sweden and Finland, who will benefit from the right of persecution, and with whom we have a good tradition of cooperating very well already. The sum total is very pleased that the Schengen Convention is now in place, and that this will significantly strengthen European cooperation. The future lies in more and more committed cooperation between different European countries, not less. And the Schengen Agreement, together with Europol and Interpol, will constitute three legs in the fight against international crime, of which we will benefit a great deal. A little cross of thought eventually. Looking at the pace and pace of adaptation of the sitting government, you might ask: What in the world is the next EU debate about? But we might be happy about that. Perhaps we can hope that the next EU debate can be both constructive and positive, and bring together a far wider connection to future Norwegian EU membership than we have so far achieved, now that so many of the practical problems have actually been overcome.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e819	The amendments we are dealing with today are due to the fact that the majority of the population decided earlier this year to ratify the Schengen Convention. It may be known that the Central Party is against the Schengen Convention, but we note that the Convention has now been ratified. We have therefore taken concrete action on the individual legislative proposals and assessed the obligations imposed on Norway under the Convention. The Schengen Convention is clear on a number of points as to what it requires is to become Norwegian law. This does not mean, however, that the changes in the laws that we are adopting today are for the better. In fact, I do not believe that the majority of the population would have promoted some of these changes in the law, had it not been for us to be obliged to change our legislation as a result of the Schengen Convention. It is striking how the interests of privacy and legal certainty have been little problematised by the Schengen followers in this position, strikingly because heavy hearing bodies have pointed to several issues, including: the amendments to Section 27 of the Foreign Affairs Act, which now means that a non-resident must not be registered in the SIS if he wishes to obtain an entry permit. The unfortunate consequences of this amendment have been made clear through the story of Stephanie Mills. She was not allowed to enter the Netherlands because the French authorities had listed her in the SIS. I would like to quote a heavy and serious actor, namely the Association of Lawyers, who says to this proposal that it: ‘will seem unlucky and arbitrary... To accede to such instruments stands far from the democratic traditions to which we in Norway like to confess’. These are strong words from the Association of Lawyers, and I am surprised that the majority of the Committee is not concerned about such a proposal. Today, it is also assumed that foreign police can be armed during observation and persecution on Norwegian soil. This Center Party seems to be a very unfortunate change in laws. And there is reason to recall that it was these provisions of the Schengen Convention that, in its time, led to Sweden changing its constitution so that it would be in line with the Convention. The proposal does not, however, imply that the Norwegian police should be armed, but it involves a breach of a line and a principle of which there has been a cross-political uprising. In the past, it has only been the Progress Party which in this Chamber has called for the armed use of the police. The last Progress Party proposed this – in connection with the treatment of new police laws – there were no other parties supporting such a proposal. I understand that we cannot reserve ourselves against foreign officials being armed under observation and persecution. However, I would ask the Government to draw up guidelines which can contribute as much as possible to limiting the cases where foreign officials may be armed, and I refer to proposal No. 2 from the Center Party. It is completely reversed when the provision is adopted without a thorough analysis of the assumptions for such a new rule of law. The consequences of this amendment have been devalued by the majority of the Committee. I think this matter is too serious. Therefore, the Central Party will also propose that the Government return to the Stortinget with an evaluation of this legal provision after it has worked for a few years. There does not seem to be a majority in favour of this proposal. I think that's a concern, because here we have a chance of being ahead of us when it comes to issues that can get faster than we know. Me and the Center Party will be in advance of a fundamental and thorough debate, and will not experience that, for example. is TV 2 taking the debate. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Committee has joined in the Central Party's remark that the Government will come back to the Storting with an analysis and review of the control regime we are now establishing as a substitute for the disappearance of border control. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Centre Party. A corrected proposal has been distributed at individual tables, and this proposal replaces proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e852	Tor Nymo has taken up the suggestions he referred to, with the correction he briefed on. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e857	It might not have been necessary to take a line in a situation where it is hardly noticed that the centre party is still on the sideline, today as one really has a case that just goes on that one will get something that has already been adopted by Stortinget, into Norwegian law. There were many things in relation to what Mr. Tor Nymo said, which I could go into in detail, but I don't want to do that. However, I have recorded that during the previous Schengen treatment there were some questions that the Foreign Affairs Committee asked both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to which a very clear answer was given in relation to what some Schengen sceptics have claimed. In this regard, I would like to ask the representative Tor Nymo: When the Minister of Justice in such an answer claims that the Norwegian Government is free to establish Norwegian asylum and refugee policy, does Tor Nymo believe that the government for which he has served and provided the basis does not come up with the facts of such a claim? Does Tor Nymo think this is not true?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e864	I am a little surprised that the representative Rasmussen stated that my post and the comments of the Centre party were really – I kept saying – no reason to care about anything in particular. He expected that it was hardly noticed. But then he must have forgotten what he focused so strongly on in his first post, because then there was no way of regretting that, for example. the press had not stressed the disagreement that has now been seen to have manifested itself and that we are maintaining our position on the accession to Schengen. So to the question of whether I distance myself from what the Minister of Justice must have said in terms of freedom of action in asylum matters. There I also feel for a reasonably safe reason when I rely on what the Association of Lawyers has expressed in this context. It is right to have national freedom of action on this issue, but the Association of Lawyers emphasises one thing: they say, among other things. that if national legislation is found to be more liberal than in the other Schengen countries, it will be felt that asylum seekers are in line to enter Norway. And what's the consequence of that? - Ask the Bar Association. Well, Norway is raising the threshold, so that we get on the level with the other Schengen countries. These are the objections of the Association of Lawyers, and they also apply to the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e871	It is true that, in matters dealt with in the Justice Committee, we are receiving input from many teams and many hearing bodies. The question here is well to what extent we're doing the views of our own. At that point, I want a clarification from the representative Tor Nymo in relation to the recording we got from the Law Association, and their views in relation to some proposals that the Government has made. Is it so to understand that Tor Nymo also believes that the Government has presented proposals that are far from our democratic traditions? [[The light goes into the main hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e879	Then the light went.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e882	It actually looks like you're not interested in me answering it! [[Laughter]] The representative Bjørnstad is trying to express that we are choosing on the top shelf in terms of advice and input in connection with different things. The Schengen issue is a very important matter for the Central Party – as we have stated earlier – just as the membership debate was. In this respect, I recall that the Central Party and our leader made an unusually good effort to prevent Norway from joining the Union – so that's what they said. I know that the representative Bjørnstad was strongly opposed to it, but let it go. He asks if I have the opinion that the government by presenting this is far from democratic thinking and democratic principles. I've never given an expression to that. We have great respect for the fact that a great majority has said and decided that we should adopt the Convention. I think the government has followed the big crowd in a good way, because I noticed that the representative Rasmussen gave praise to the government. I have no problem joining it, even though I disagree in principle with Schengen. The point is – and you should not read much in the proposition until you see it – that the sitting government is taking this very seriously. There are, among other things: taking into account several key consultation opinions, so that I am reasonably convinced that the thorough processing done by this Government is far preferable to what a workers' party government would have done, when we know their strong desire to join the Union.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e895	I shall not go into any further detail on the speech by the representative Nymos of the desire to join the Union. But I noticed some things that he said. I can repeat so far what I said in my main post, that I think the government has done a very good job of getting this law in place. Tor Nymo is concerned with this with long queues, etc., but we know that, according to what the Government also says, each country can pursue its own asylum and refugee policy. Then one in each country depends on whether one is more or less liberal, and that is what determines any queues entering each country. It is independent of Schengen. But I have a question for the representative Tor Nymo, because in many of his comments he puts a great deal of emphasis on what the Association of Lawyers says, and so has he here today. Does that mean that the representative Tor Nymo in this case trusts more in the Law Association than in his own government?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e904	When it comes to pursuing an independent asylum and refugee policy, I feel that the representative Rasmussen is trying to make it a practical issue. You're actually talking about cooling! With all due respect, the representative has understood little of what is in our principal objection and which has also been argued by heavy hearing bodies. Actually, that's what this is all about. Again, the question of whether we trust the Association of Lawyers more than our own government: the question is not more and better processed after it is repeated – let it now be said. In any case, the situation is that there is a majority in the United Kingdom that wants to accede to the Convention. [[The light comes on in the staging room.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e911	The change of reply is over, and there is a light on the debate!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e914	What we are discussing today is the legislative changes that have automatically resulted from the conclusion of a Schengen Agreement SV. The proposed legislative changes show that there has been every reason to oppose the Schengen Agreement. In Norway, there has been broad agreement on the importance of strong data protection, the proper enforcement of legal certainty and, lastly, the need for monitoring systems to be democratically controlled. In these areas, Norwegian law is now changing in the wrong direction. The amendments also undermine the right of asylum. The Contact Committee between immigrants and authorities is now finding that changes to the law do not imply a dramatic change in Norway’s foreign policy, but rather the closest formalisation of changes that have already been introduced. But Norway is now part of Fortress Europe. Our freedom of choice to pursue a more humane refugee and asylum policy is being restricted. The Schengen Agreement is, as a system, logical in the construction of the Union, a Union to which the Norwegian people said no in 1994. The Schengen Agreement ensures free movement within Fortress Europe and ensures that unwanted persons do not come within. The freedom to cross borders is compensated for by control within borders - a big brother sees you society. Schengen is characterised by many as the laboratory for the development of EU judicial and police cooperation, a cornerstone of the EU Justice Palace. Several hearing bodies show how meaningless it is that all these proposals for amendments to the Norwegian law are only presented after the approval of the Schengen Agreement by the Stortinget in June 1997. There are strong objections, both in principle and in practice, to important parts of the Schengen Agreement from many and very heavy public hearing bodies. They're just being listened to to to a little bit, and the law firm calls this a kind of democracy. When the Stortinget took its position on the Schengen Agreement in June 1997, these problems had to be discussed without any relevant consultation opinions on the consequences of approval. At the same time, it would have been time to present the main legislative proposals before the Storting had to take a stand for the Schengen Agreement. But the workers' party government was in a hurry, so great that there was no time for a – after what we think – democratic treatment. In the light of the consultations currently available, it is also embarrassing that both the Government and the majority of the population refused to take substantive aspects of the Schengen Agreement up to discussion when the Stortinge dealt with the Schengen II Agreement in April this year. The centre batch has many critical comments in the configuration. All of these notes we're going to end up with. We will vote on the proposal of the Central Party when they come to Stortinget. We note that the Central Party takes note of the legislative amendments, but we will vote against all the amendments, with a few exceptions. We will vote in favour of the amendment in section 5 of the law on the extradition of offenders. It is taking the fight against terrorism seriously, and it is a legislative change that should be able to be made independent of the Schengen Agreement. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in its opinion of consultation, points out that ratification of the UN Convention to Combat Terrorist Bombing will require this amendment. We have our own proposal for the second paragraph of Section 47 of the Foreign Affairs Act because we believe that the fight against human trafficking must be taken seriously, regardless of the Schengen agreement. SV goes against the whole law on SIS. SIS and SIRENE contain sensitive information available to a number of persons. The activity report of the Schengen Cooperation Supervisory Body, JSA, is troubling in its criticism of the way in which legal certainty and data protection are ensured in both SIS and SIRENE. The bishop of Oslo says in his hearing opinion that too many people are at risk of being caught up in the system, and that the consequences are insurmountable. He goes on to say: ‘Incidental services may be linked to Schengen cooperation in a way that allows the exchange of information to be outside political governance and control.’ Finally, I refer to our proposal to amend Section 47 of the Foreign Affairs Act.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e936	Ågot Valle has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e939	The legislative proposals in Ot.prp. No 56 for 1998-99 has been encouraged to implement the Schengen acquis in accordance with the earlier commitments made by Norway. The legislative changes are necessary as a result of the consent of the Storting on 9 June 1997 for the ratification of the Cooperation Agreement between Norway, Iceland and the Schengen countries. Following the signature of the Cooperation Agreement by Norway on 19 December 1996, no new rules have been adopted in the Schengen cooperation requiring legislative decisions by the Norwegian side. In the work on the proposal, it is generally stressed that the amendments should not go beyond what is necessary as a result of the Schengen acquis. The main challenge has been to develop legislative proposals that provide the most appropriate implementation of the legislation. In preparing proposals for the SIS law, legal certainty and privacy have been essential. The Schengen acquis implemented by the legislative proposals contained in the Proposition has previously been submitted to the Stortinget for consideration by St.prp. No 42 for 1996-97 and in St.meld. No 33 for 1998-99. I have noticed that there is broad support for the Government's proposal. So I just want to briefly mention a few points. The importance of international cooperation in combating cross-border and organised crime is high. I place great emphasis on sharing in more effective police cooperation in Europe when Schengen cooperation is implemented. Norwegian police have access to an effective search register through SIS, the Schengen Information System. The police cooperation we have in the Nordic countries today is very good. With the Schengen cooperation, we will participate in a police cooperation that is constantly developing between a wider circle of countries, and certain aspects of cross-border cooperation with neighbouring countries are being formalised. The challenges facing asylum and refugee policy are also of a significant international nature. It is therefore also our duty to participate in international cooperation in order to contribute to finding solutions to the diverse and major challenges we face almost daily in this area. The experience gained in recent years shows that close contact and consultation with other countries and international organisations is increasingly important, and that international contact complements the instruments we otherwise traditionally have over nationally. Several have expressed concern that, with Schengen cooperation, we should have a more stringent refugee and asylum policy. For me, it is essential in this context that the Schengen Convention has been established in several places that the provisions of the Convention apply without prejudice to the provisions of the United Nations Convention on Refugees and the New York Protocol. It is also in the light of this as a general principle that the Government has presented the proposals for legislative changes that are being debated today and which I have also commented on in writing in the past on questions from the Committee. Mobility and cross-border contact are growing. While most of us can benefit from increased travel freedom, we also know that criminal elements are ready to take advantage of the situation. Increasing cross-border crime is one of the conditions requiring effective control procedures, whether at the external border or otherwise. At the same time, we need to ensure that the control systems put in place can conflict with the obligation we have to contribute to international protection of people on the run. I have noticed that the Committee emphasises the importance of an open and thorough debate on the control procedures established to ensure police control under the Foreign Affairs Act when personal checks are abolished on the internal border. The government is positive to this. At present, the question of which control measures would be appropriate is being discussed with the other Nordic countries. The government is in favour of briefing the Storting on the matter at a later stage. I have noticed that the Committee is in favour of increasing the penalties for the new criminal provisions on the purpose of winnings in the second paragraph of Section 47 of the Foreign Affairs Act, on so-called trafficking in human beings, from two years, which was the Ministry's proposal, to three years. I have no comment on this. Work on the proposal focuses on providing the Storting with the broadest possible overview of the economic and administrative implications of the Schengen implementation. It must be stressed, however, that it is still necessary to reserve the final costs. Through the Schengen implementation project, estimates will be more accurate than those presented in the proposal. However, it must also be borne in mind that the level of control that we impose on the Norwegian side is considered sufficient in relation to the requirements of external border control and other compensatory measures in the Schengen cooperation. This will not be finally clarified until after the conversion has been initiated by the Norwegian side and the approval decision has been taken. These costs fall within the responsibility of several departments. With regard to the State budget for 2000, the Government assumes that each department bears its own expenditure and promotes it in the budgetary process in the usual way. In this context, I would also like to take the opportunity to explain in more detail the process that has taken place in defining the legislation to which the agreement with the EU on institutional solutions for the connection to Schengen cooperation is to apply. On 26 March this year, the Ministry of Justice presented St. ermeld. No 33 for 1998-99 on this legislation. The size of the store was informed that it per person. that date had not yet been formally adopted which Schengen legislation was to be integrated into the EU, as this decision could not be taken by the Council of the European Union before the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam on 1 May of this year. However, the Ministry of Justice stressed the importance of mentioning the legislation contained in the notification as far as it was known at the time and promised that the Stortinget would be informed of any changes prior to the signing of the agreement with the EU. The size has been informed of the changes that took place before the signature of the agreement on 18 May of this year, in my two letters to the Stortinget on 23 April and 12 May. At the same time, it was noted that the changes did not affect the scope of the agreement. The Schengen acquis to which the institutional agreement with the EU is to apply was finally and formally adopted in the signature of the agreement with the EU on 18 May. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to inform the Storting that this legislation, as set out in Annexes A and B to the agreement, in its present final form is identical to what I presented in my letter to the Presidentship of Storting on 23 April and 12 May this year. The proposal today includes a proposal for a law on the Schengen Information System (SIS) and on changes to the Foreign Affairs Act, the Extradition Act, the Police Act and the Criminal Code. The proposal also contains a description of the SIS system, as well as an overview of the administrative and economic consequences that participation in Schengen cooperation will entail. The Schengen Information System is an essential element of Schengen cooperation. SIS is a computerised register for use in all Schengen countries. Within defined frameworks and conditions, Member States may exchange certain types of information on persons and goods via registers. The Schengen information system is necessary for countries to have a common external border control system and important for combating crime and ensuring public order and security. The information system is a very efficient search register. A separate law on SIS is proposed which regulates the processing of data in Norway in the register. The law regulates key issues such as the conditions for recording and providing information, transparency, erasure, compensation, professional secrecy, access to justice and information security. Particular attention has been paid to the consultation opinion on privacy and other important rights. Ensuring privacy is included in the purpose of the law. I propose that the Data Protection Authority should be given a general control function in relation to the SIS. At any time, the Data Protection Authority shall be able, on its own initiative or at the request of the data subject, to verify the accuracy of the data contained in the SIS and whether they have been registered and used in accordance with the rules of the law. The Schengen Convention opens Articles 40 and 41 so that, under very specific conditions, foreign police can observe or persecute cross-border respectively without prior agreement. In practice, this could include police officers from the nearest neighbouring country. In the Police Act, the Ministry proposes to provide a separate basis for the exercise of powers by foreign police on Norwegian soil in cases where the police cross the border with Norway, for example, in accordance with the Schengen Convention and bilateral agreement between Norway, Finland and Sweden. I also want to refer to what is on page 95 of the proposition, and I want to make it clear that we want to evaluate the experience with this after a certain period of time to see how what is laid down in the law works in practice, and what we reap as experience from it. Norway will carry out external border checks, i.e.: personal control and supervision of the external border on behalf of the other Schengen countries. The Norwegian maritime border will be part of the external border. The importance of industrial interests along the coast is important. A broad range has assessed the number and location of authorised border crossing points after Schengen accession. It is based on a decentralised control model that takes into account business interests and how Norwegian police are organised. Work has been described in the proposal and the report has been included as an annex. The Ministry of Justice will draw up regulations and finalise border crossing points based on the Foreign Affairs Act. The most extensive administrative and economic implications of the implementation of the Schengen acquis result from the proposed amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act and the SIS Act. Participation will require Norway to carry out external border checks, i.e.: personal control and supervision of the external border on behalf of the other Schengen countries. The Norwegian maritime border, the border with Russia, as well as airports with air traffic and ports, with the exception of ferry services to and from other Schengen countries, will form part of the external border of the Schengen countries. The implementation of the legislation will entail substantial investment and operational costs. These costs fall within the responsibility of several departments. Work on the proposal has focused on providing the Storting with the broadest possible overview of the economic and administrative implications of the Schengen implementation. It must be stressed, however, that it is still necessary to reserve the final costs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e979	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e982	When I was in the relationship between the Center Party and this government for which they form a basis, I said that the abnormality had become so normal that the press barely noticed it. But it is not said that we who are in the political environment are not aware of it and believe that it should have been much more focused than it is today. I mentioned earlier the answers that include: The Minister of Justice has given the Foreign Affairs Committee a number of questions from the Schengen sceptics, and I assume that the answers stand for the views of the Council of State and the Ministry, although I know the background of all the government parties in the area of Schengen. Is it not a problem for the Council of State – even today with regard to the implementation of the Schengen Agreement in the law – that a party which forms the basis of the Government still expresses great scepticism as expressed by the Council of State? And I'm assuming, once again, that this is the Council of State's view. I can mention quickly some of what is now available: some cases relate to refugee and asylum policy. It concerns the privacy of the SIS. This concerns carrier liability, which is now quite naturally extended to land transporters in addition to sea and air transporters. And it's not least police cooperation, which the Council of State once again gave a good investigation about, and the strict conditions that apply to this. Is it not a problem for the Council of State as Minister of Justice to operate in relation to a party – which in this case is also a government partner – that acts in that way in the Stortinge on these key issues?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e991	It is an elementary fact that the parties that formed this government did not want the Schengen Agreement. This proposal fell duly in the Storting, this relationship was known when the Government was formed, the Government has dealt with the Storting's proceedings and decisions and has also found it right to make it aware, but on the basis of the decisions taken, we have had the task of making the best possible out of the situation. I dare say that the intergovernmental agreement negotiated is a very good intergovernmental agreement. I would also say that within the framework of such an intergovernmental agreement as this is a prerequisite, the terms of such an agreement have been used to ensure privacy and other matters that have been expressed in the case under consideration today. Once we have done that job, there is of course no problem for me – to say it that way – that I get credit for the job being done well, because the assumptions and background for it are well known. This also applies to the Central Party and the position of the representative of Nymos. So this government sits like it does, the debate is going on like it does, and the questions you have about it are going to get you now. But the practical situation is that the Government has submitted a proposal that the Government is behind, to which the Government has received solid support. That's the situation. So it is sometimes in political life that we are persecuted by cross-thinking. But that's going to be one of the challenges life gives us to take on. This applies both within and outside policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1003	There may be differences in viewpoints when it is time for wonder and for cross - thought. I may not think that relationships that so much affect our relationship with other countries are the area that is best suited to the type of intellectual practice – if that is the word for it. The Council of State said that the Government is dealing with the decision of the Storting. It's not just the government's attitude to the decision of the Storting. Well, the government identifies itself with the document it submits to the Storting. And then I also assume that there are not only individual members, not just the Minister of Justice, but the government as a collective college that stands for this identification. I want to follow up on what the representative Rasmussen has mentioned earlier today. One of the parties to the Stortinget who is at the same time in government says in their fractional remarks, with the quote from the Advocate General's Opinion: ‘Entrying such instruments is far from the democratic traditions that we in Norway like to profess.’ It further states: ‘This member is very concerned that persons who protest against the aspects of a Schengen policy can be punished with exclusion from the entire Schengen area, perhaps during their lifetime.’ I think it would have been useful for this matter that the Council of State had made it clear that these statements are foreign to the Government's views, and that they are alien to the views of a single College of Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1022	It's very important to get quoted correctly. I said that the government was concerned with the fact that before it was formed, the Stortinge had actually agreed to the Schengen Convention. It's clear that when we present a document, we identify with the document. That's our document. And it's like when I'm standing here, I'm talking to the voice of the Government. It was supposed to be missing! That's how the constitutional system that we're part of works. Now it is also part of political life that sometimes government councils want to answer questions that government councils do not answer. That's the way it is today. The answer is very simple. The government has presented its views. Of course, the government is assembled about them. They're for treatment in Stortinget. They will be adopted in Stortinget. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1029	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1034	The left belonged to the parties against the Schengen Agreement in 1997. At the same time, we have to recognise that there have been changes since what makes us today to vote in favour of a legislative decision that is a follow-up to the Schengen Agreement. It means to the extent that we adapt to a reality and a situation that is different than we would in principle wish it to be. It seems surprising to the representative hereafter that a political party is adapting to a situation that has become different from that of the party. This should of course not surprise the representative Hernæs, because there is no party in Norway that has more experience than the right in having opposed decisions and then has had to set itself up after the world has moved on. It's been the situation for the Right from the Right Formation in 1884. When you have an agreement, you will be in the situation that international cooperation is giving and taking. Let's acknowledge that there could be elements in what we are going in today to agree to adopt, which is not exactly what we would have liked. But there is one perspective that we need to take with us, and which perhaps for my part is a significant reason to be partly more positive about this cooperation today than in 1997: it is the fact that, on the basis of Norway's declaration in 1997 to join the Schengen cooperation, large parts of Nordic cooperation have really come into the situation that it will take place in the context of Schengen cooperation. If Norway had taken a different position in 1997, it is likely that the Schengen cooperation itself and the Schengen situation could have been different from today. So we get to accept that international cooperation is giving and taking, and then it's important to have a government that is prepared to take care of important interests. It is then also my opinion that we have got better data protection legislation within the framework of the first system, because we have had a government that has just taken these issues seriously. It is also important in international cooperation to take account of those areas which were part of the Left's grounds for opposing Schengen cooperation. In the end: Kristin Krohn Devold's attempt to start the big EU debate today, I must only be allowed to characterise it as follows: Never has any representative of the EU's supporters so clearly said that the purpose of the policy that has been pursued afterwards was to oversee the people's no in 1994.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1045	This is going to be a three-minute limit to 30 seconds or something like that. I need a little comment to the representative of Hoves's history on behalf of the Right. I don't accept it, and I don't think the Howe will be able to find a single example that the Right in Government has taken a position that the Right Representatives in this room, whether it's a magnification or a ostrich, has taken a distance from or distanced from, either in settings or in posts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1052	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 677]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1066	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Progress Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Socialist Left 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the People's Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. The President has reason to believe that the debate will not take as long as the wish is expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1075	The Proposition is a follow-up to the work of the Economic and Social Committee, of a subsequent monitoring of the administrative process and of the work of a working party responsible for investigating the introduction of procedural time limits in the administration. Various initiatives have also been taken in the United Kingdom. The Committee has noted that the monitoring of the processing time in central government showed considerable variation. The Committee, like the Hearing Officers, would point out that the objective is the swiftest and most effective procedure possible. The Committee also refers to the Civil Ombudsman’s opinion, inter alia: in the 1997 Annual Communication, which shows that management practices are not satisfactory in providing provisional responses, see: the second paragraph of Section 11a of the Administrative Act. The Committee would therefore stress the importance of incorporating administrative procedures in order to maximise compliance with the wording of the law providing a ‘temporary response’. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progressive Party, is, moreover, of the opinion that the Administrative Act initially has provisions that balance in a good way the conflicting considerations with regard to the duration of proceedings. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, is pleased with the introduction by the Government of service declarations as a central tool for improving the service of central government. The Committee has also noted that the Economic and Social Committee considers that, in a number of areas, procedural time limits should be laid down, on the basis of a statutory provision of the Administrative Act. We have also noticed that the hearing opinions on the proposal of the Economic and Social Committee do not point in any clear direction. The Committee will ask the Government to return to Stortinget with a review of the administrative procedure, including the use of the regulatory helmet, and the impact of the introduction of service declarations and time-limit rules in the specific legislation, in an appropriate form. The majority of the Committee points out that the majority of the working party warns against the introduction of time limits leading to unintended and undesirable effects which are not for the benefit of the public. The majority have taken note of the Ministry's assessment that specific legislation provides for time-limits to which different types of effects are linked and that good experience with these types of rules is generally available. The majority support the Ministry's assessment that time-limit rules should primarily be laid down in specific legislation. The majority also agree with the Ministry that the introduction of regulatory deadlines may be appropriate in some areas and support the Ministry's proposal to include a basis in the Administrative Act as proposed by the Working Party. The majority would also point to the need not only for business to act quickly but also for equal treatment and legal certainty for all citizens of the country. The majority emphasise the need to exploit the current regulatory helmet. The majority point out that it is up to the Government to draw up regulations with appropriate deadlines for different administrative decisions and that this work must be undertaken as soon as possible. The majority point to the fact that the proposal of the Party for a general period of three months is contrary to the recommendations of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs in the investigation set out in Annex 1 to the Proposition. On page 34 of the proposal, the Industry Law Committee says: ‘The Economic and Social Committee would point out that it would not be appropriate to introduce a general deadline for all matters dealt with by the administration. The diversity of administrative matters could be maintained by adapting the length of time-limits to each type of case.’ The majority have also stressed that industry itself — in the two hearings on these issues, as outlined in the Proposition — has not addressed such a general deadline. The majority have noted that the working group does not share the views of the Economic and Social Committee on the need for rules on specific legal effects related to deadlines and that the views of the working group on this point are supported by most hearing bodies. The majority share the Ministry’s view that the sanctions imposed by the Food Law Committee will have adverse side effects which are disproportionate to the effect of the duration of proceedings with which such rules could possibly be achieved. The majority will not rule out the possibility of returning to specific legal effects as explained in the proposal. Of these legal effects, there is in particular the legal effect of automatic recognition which should be assessed and investigated in greater detail and which, in the opinion of those members, is particularly relevant for the introduction by specific legislation. However, the majority want to see how practice develops after deadlines have been introduced. Finally, I allow myself to ask Odelstinget to vote for the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1118	Public administration time and routines are a noble topic, often based on the lateness of the procedure and the fact that it is all too inconsistency. There is a criticism that can be more or less justified, and there is no doubt that many can experience the meeting with the public treatment system as frustrating and not very satisfying. But the opposite can also be the case: many people can experience a public system, for example. in some municipalities, where the administration is both service-minded, quick and not least thorough and fair in its treatment. This last one, which goes on principle and on justice, may be a lot of people who don't think about it. In some cases, a minimum period of time is required to comply. I also want to mention the myth that everything is so much better, faster and more efficient in the private business. Compared to public opinion, I find from my own experience that this is not the case. What is at issue in this case is the way in which administrative matters are dealt with, and in particular the time taken to deal with them. I am not going to repeat the history of dealing with this issue here today, just mentioning that the Stortinge when dealing with Document No. 8:120 for 1997-98 decided to await the situation of this proportion. The starting point of the working party is that there is a potential to improve public procedures and, in particular, to improve the potential of the process. The objective must be the most efficient, fair and serviceable public administration. In view of the diversity of issues involved in the treatment, scope and content of the cases, it would be totally wrong to impose fixed general time limits for public proceedings. A much more differentiated approach must be adopted, allowing time-limits to be set in individual areas. The Labour Party therefore supports the Government's proposal that Section 11(b) of the Administrative Act states: «The King may set time limits for the management of individual decisions. The king may, by regulation, lay down detailed rules for the calculation of the time limits.» I don't want to spend a long time deepening our position any further, just saying that we agree with the Government's further proposal to deal with the case complex itself. In particular, we think that an introduction of the so-called service statements is exciting. We also support the assessments that have been made on specific legal effects related to deadlines. Of these, I would like to mention, in particular, the possibility of automatic recognition as an interesting topic that might become relevant, but we will only see that when the Government comes back with its assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1132	It turns out in this case that once again the party of progress remains alone in strengthening the condition of consumers. We have had similar issues earlier in Document No. 8 proposals, and that was the exact same thing there. I have the feeling that most of the parties don't quite take the ball. It is important to confirm in its speeches that consumers are to be strengthened, but when adequate action is to be taken, the load is dropped. That is why we disagree that no penalties should be attached to the time constraints of the administration beyond what legislation already operates. The government's proposal to introduce service declarations in the administration could easily become just one blow in the air. We would point out that service statements will not be a sufficient tool to streamline management without supplementing them with concrete and additional deadlines. Today, there are many examples from some municipalities that have already introduced so-called service declarations, but it has not improved the situation of consumers, on the contrary. I would like to refer to some articles that mention this with management: a life-threatening sick 77-year-old has been waiting in vain for a response from one of our social security offices for more than seven months. That's one example. However, at regular intervals the country’s newspapers can report similar treatment from public authorities. Even three and four years of waiting have become something that seems to have to be found on the part of departments and public agencies – a form of procedure that can only occur as long as it is hidden and protected by what health and social representatives in Oslo, Helge Hjort, have so aptly called the ‘nameless bureaucracy’. Even the ministry that was to deliver an opinion on time-limits in public proceedings submitted its suspension 18 months late, by indicating that there was no need or reason for new rules on time-limits. That is to say, no one should be responsible. No one shall have to take employment or other consequences because of their lack of ability or willingness to follow up a case in a way that society and the public should have a natural claim. When it takes more than four years for the State Health Authority to answer a simple and small case, carefully prepared in advance with professional and unambiguous opinions, something clearly has to be wrong – and the matter has not yet been properly dealt with. During these years, the same small case has walked between six, possibly several, case handlers, all of whom have had to re-enter it. Faced with such administrative chaos, it is not for believers when one of the department heads in a newspaper interview complains that one has had more to do for a period of time than the manning calls for. It also emphasises the majority of votes in favour. It's because you don't have enough resources in the administration -- it's municipal or in other areas. This is a discharge. In this area, too, priority is given to prioritizing resources and taking sufficient account of consumers' wishes. The Progress Party supports the Proposal of the Economic and Social Committee to introduce deadlines in the management. We'll make it more concrete. In the interests of both enterprises and industries, and not least of individual people, greater predictability and a generally shorter and more efficient public administration procedure are currently required. We believe it would be both useful and necessary to introduce concrete deadlines into the Administrative Act, especially when the administration, which I have already been involved in, trains matters and procedures. On the other hand, we support the Ministry's proposal for a regulatory body that allows time limits to be introduced, but we believe, as I said, that the proposal does not go far enough. Therefore, we propose that the general regulatory body provide a special rule for applications for authorisations, authorisations and authorisations, stating that the time limit for dealing with such cases should not exceed three months. We will also link the legal effect to the expiry of the three-month deadline. I'm dealing with our proposal, which concerns this very thing. I would also like to address a study actually carried out by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs as part of a major review of local democracy in 19 selected municipalities in six regions — a survey whose results have been obtained. And, among others, neither Health and Social Ombudsman Helge Hjort in Oslo nor Managing Director Peter Batta in the Landesförbund is surprised by the result, which shows that 48 p.m. of the asked parties, the lack of trust in the municipal proceedings reveals: ‘My experience is that the rules of procedure are often broken. People usually have a too positive view of how the public case is going on, says Hjort. He assists many of those who face problems in the municipal health and social services of the capital.’ In fact, there are bureaucrats who also respond to the fact that there are no satisfactory deadlines within the management. In addition, it says: ‘Some of the problem is due to a lack of sanctions if the laws and regulations are broken by civil servants. Case-handling errors only lead to reactions where the outcome of a case may be different. It seems to me that Norwegian administration does not have sufficient ambitions to comply with the laws and regulations that actually apply, says Hjort.’ He is clearly up-to-date on what the matter is really about. I would like to quote Peter Batta in the Federation of the Houseowners: ‘My criticism of the public services is not about rejection, but about the fact that deadlines are being ignored and that the answers that are coming do not say anything at all. The latter often happens, because no one assumes responsibility for a matter, but eats a customer with swada, says Batta." It is for this reason that the Progress Party will have a legislative framework which will ensure that the administrative body itself or the overall authorising authority and the relevant staff member will have an incentive to comply with the absolute time limits so as to have an impact on the administrative body, on the granting authority or on the substantive substance of the matter. We are referring to the fact that the Food Law Committee proposes that provision should be made for specific legal effects to be regulated if the time limits set for improving the effectiveness of the rules are exceeded. The Party of Progress does not share the Ministry’s reasons for not following up the proposal of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. The imposition of alternative penalties such as compensation, fines, fees, automatic acceptance of applications, legal measures and complaints to the Civil Ombudsman in relation to the expiry of time limits should not be a practical problem, if the will is there. We point out that there is consistently good experience with time-limits in specific legislation to which different types of legal effects are linked. We therefore propose that: «The King may set time limits for the management of individual decisions. The time limit for the examination of an application for authorizations, authorisations, authorisations, etc. may not exceed three months. If the case has not been settled within three months, the application shall be deemed to have been granted unless it would be contrary to the rights of others.The King may, by way of regulation, lay down detailed rules for the calculation of the time limits, including the effect on the expiry of a time limit relating to matters other than those referred to in the second subparagraph.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1174	Jørn L. Stang has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1177	There is hardly any disagreement that it is an objective to get prompt treatment in the public administration, but when the representative Jørn L. Stang talks about party speeches when we express this wish, the opposite of the term party speaks out that this must be done with legal certainty through all stages of the proceedings. Now no one is going to accuse us of being impatient in this matter. The desire for a faster procedure is at least back to the beginning of the 1990s. For me, it may be particularly natural to refer to a private bill such as Anders Talleraas, Svein Ludvigsen, Gunnar Fatland and Kjellaug Nakkim promoted in Document No. 8:14 for 1993-94, with Innst. S. No 8 from the following year. It is an attitude which was unanimously endorsed by the then great crowd, and in its comments, among other things. It was recalled that late treatment in many cases creates major problems for individuals, that there are a number of examples of the unfortunate nature of long treatment periods both for business and for individuals, and that it not only contributes to increased unemployment and reduced standard of living, but also to a reduction in the standard of living for many. This was followed up by the Department of Ot.prp. No 75 for 1993-94, which wanted to come back to this question after having first carried out a survey of cases where the duration of treatment is too long, and tried to find the reason for this. So we can say that this is a process that's been going on for a long time, and that's also my impression, although there are undoubtedly examples of isolated cases that should have been different, that we're going in the right direction. When we see the long time that has passed, we can at least not accuse the Minister of Justice of being late in promoting the cause of the Storting. There is no doubt that on the Right we want, both in the interests of businesses, industries and not least individuals, that there could be greater predictability and a generally shorter and more effective procedure time in public administration. But we agree with what the majority says, that a general rule is not as simple as it seems to be. In many cases, a general deadline will be too long in many case types, while it will be too short in others. There may be some general philosophism, but there is good reason to believe that where the deadline is too short, an absolute deadline will often lead to an even longer procedure, and vice versa – where more time is needed, there is a risk that the procedure will not be good enough, or alternatively that the administrative bodies concerned will have to be allocated considerable resources in the form of more employees, larger premises, etc. When it often does not come, it will in turn affect the quality of the procedure. In this round we therefore join in what is the broad majority – we get to look at the rules that are now prescribed by the department, and come back to the matter once again if it turns out that this does not work. I also want, in relation to what I said about sometimes too long a deadline and sometimes too short a deadline, to refer to the big difference between municipalities. Small municipalities will be able to deal with this most often, at least very easily, while in large municipalities with similar larger extension cases it may be significantly worse. It is tempting to mention that if there were to be an opera decision later this week, it would not be very difficult to imagine that it would have a case complexity where it would not be very easy to set the case handling time for weeks or months in advance. What I'm trying to say within this framework is that we have to see the administrative law in relation to the other law that we have. With these short and rather general remarks, I will nevertheless be allowed to express an impatience that has been in place for almost ten years now, and at the same time it is a cross of thought – it is tempting to use the word cross of thought, since it has been used earlier in the debate – that it should be possible to get more momentum than we have seen so far. I suppose I can go another step further on such a fine day and say that it is an expression of some cautious optimism and confidence in the Minister of Justice that that will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1194	I would like to begin by agreeing with the praise given by the representative Hernæs to the Government for having come quickly with this matter, and to other matters as well. There has at least been no particularly long-term treatment in the Ministry of Justice in a number of cases. The question of this proposition and its setting, namely the issue of procedural time in the administration, is something to be taken seriously. There is no doubt that it is a little too easy to find many good examples in the direction taken by the representative, Mr Stang, in matters where there is no doubt that the processing time has been too long. It is probably in many ways a repetition at the Civil Ombudsman that the Civil Ombudsman has to argue that the actual procedure has been too liberal. Moreover, it has also proved to be a relatively effective tool – despite everything fortunately – to complain to the Civil Ombudsman that a matter takes time. And once in a while, it's actually proven to be the only way to get an answer. However, it is also important to stress that when the Civil Ombudsman is able to intervene in proceedings and point it out, it is actually because there are also rules today on processing time, and it is not necessarily that several rules always lead to the most effective result. Some of the background to the fact that the Left has been concerned about this with service statements and has seen service statements as important has just been the fact that through it it would have made the administration focus on its own procedure, not least during the procedure period. It has certainly been the philosophy that has applied to us, that if an administrative body first sets the level of its service itself, sets the level of its processing time, it is perhaps more likely that you really follow up what you commit to than if this were pushed on from the outside. Therefore, on behalf of the Left, I would like to stress that the work on service statements, perhaps also to take seriously the fact that it is the individual administrative body that is to do this itself, and not to a large extent overall or external authorities. It's important. At the same time, it may be important to provide a regulatory body with access to time limits for the proceedings. This with time-to-time and time-limits in relation to proceedings is an important consumer issue and not least an important issue in relation to business, which in many contexts suffers losses due to length of proceedings. However, aspects other than the length of proceedings may be important in isolation. It is important to create a simpler Norway, i.e. to ensure that fewer issues need to be addressed in a number of contexts. Also measures such as: in order to ensure parallel treatment of cases in which a case is to be dealt with by several administrative bodies, may be a means of reducing the overall duration of proceedings. But it is important not to pursue a good cause too far. So even if it is a good thing to bring down the procedure time, it would be my opinion that it is too far to follow it if the proposals of the Progress Party were to be adopted. Firstly, as the representative, Mrs Hernæs, has said, the fact that there is a risk that the procedure will not be sufficiently sound and that a decision will be taken without a proper procedure. There may be one aspect that is important to take into account. I also think you'll see in your eyes that you could get in the situation that if you didn't give a discount within, for example. three months meant that an authorisation had been granted, it could in fact also open up the risk of a refusal for reasons of safety because of the lack of sufficient time in the proceedings and a sufficient basis for a positive response. Then it is not stated that it is always as easy to convince an administrative body that they were wrong the previous time, when they gave the rejection.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1213	The draft law that Odelstinget is dealing with today, to introduce a provision in the Administrative Act that allows for the provision of time-limits for administrative proceedings in specific matters, is part of the government's important work of better administrative service. The proposal is also a follow-up to the proposals of the Economic and Social Committee in the 1991 study and the Storting decision of 31 October 1994 to ask the Government to submit such a proposal. I am therefore very pleased to be able to present the proposal to the Stortinget, and I am pleased to note that a majority of the Judicial Committee supports the proposal. I am also pleased that the majority of the Judicial Committee supports the Government's view that such deadlines should primarily be provided for in specific legislation, not by regulations based on the Administrative Act, and that the Government also agrees that there should only be deadlines in cases where there is a real and justified need for it. The proposal must be seen in the context of the work of the Government on the introduction of service declarations. I am very pleased that the majority of the committee is pleased with this work. I agree with the Committee's comments that such service statements will be advocating to the administration, but I would also like to mention that what is perhaps most important in this work is the quality assurance work in the departments which is supposed to underpin the service statements and which ensures that the promises made in the declarations can be respected. The same is true of the time limits granted for the proceedings by regulation. The introduction of a time limit could not only change the structural and resource conditions under which the time taken to deal with a particular matter is too long. Therefore, in order for such a deadline to lead to shorter procedural periods, it would normally be necessary to combine the introduction of a deadline with efficiency measures and/or increased resources in the management area concerned. A minority in the Committee, the representatives of the Progress Party, propose that a general period of three months be introduced into the administrative law. I agree with the majority of the Judicial Committee that such a general deadline is not appropriate, because it will be too long in some types of cases, while it will be too short in other types of cases. As the majority point out, such a general deadline would also be contrary to the recommendations of the Economic and Social Committee. With regard to the issue of whether specific legal effects of non-compliance should also be allowed, I note that the majority of the Committee agrees with the Government that this should initially continue to be governed by the general administrative and compensation rules. When a minority in the Committee, the members of the Advance Party, oppose the Government's proposal on this point, I would like to point out that the Government believes that it is in the special legislation that, in the event, rules should be introduced on the specific legal effects of deadlines. Such rules must be seen in the strict context of the area of life and the considerations regulated by the Special Law, and it is in the Special Law that people can expect to be informed, for example. on the importance of time limits in social and construction matters. I have also noticed that the majority will not rule out coming back to the question of special legal effects, but I understand that this is not a matter of asking the Government to investigate this in more detail, but that one might come back to this later on. I would like to stress, as several representatives have been involved, that this is a matter I am engaged in and will follow up. I have also noticed that the Judicial Committee will ask the Government to come back to the Grand Duchy with a review of the administrative procedure, including the use of the regulatory home and the effect of the introduction of service declarations and time-limit rules in the specific legislation, in an appropriate form, and that the Committee also points out that the Government's work on drawing up regulations with appropriate deadlines must be started as soon as possible. This is a question that the Government will come back to. Since only time-limits are to be provided where there is a real and justified need for this, it will be necessary to assess the impact of the introduction of the service declarations before an assessment of the need to provide rules on time-limits can be made. This work must be given some time and this review should take place after work on the introduction of service declarations has been ongoing for some time. However, the Ministry of Justice of the forthcoming Guidebook on the preparation of legislation and lawmaking will now propose that the need to provide rules on procedural time limits in specific legislation be assessed when new laws are passed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1239	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1242	I have particularly noticed in the post of the Right Representative, but also that of the Left Representative. The left is always saying that they're going to be in favour of administrative simplification, that's a principle that they have. That is also the view of the Progress Party. That is why we are proposing a new legislative wording in connection with a new law in this area. I have the feeling that the left in this context is not the best friend of small businesses – which they also like to try to appear like. It is precisely small companies that are hit hard by messy, crunchy and long-term proceedings. For users and small businesses, the legislation must be predictable and simple – it is our starting point. That is why I am disappointed that the Left does not agree with such a general position. Stronger poaching is necessary to get both politicians and the administration to take these problems seriously. And this is far more serious than how the representative Hove is trying to present it as, that it's just individual cases. There are too many negative cases in that way. We have to acknowledge that we have a responsibility to bring about a regulation that is simple and predictable. That is why our proposal also states: ‘If the case has not been settled within three months, the application shall be deemed to have been granted’ — that is the starting point, but an important addition in this way is — ‘unless it would be contrary to the rights of others’. Prescription helmets may be introduced and used.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1259	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 683]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1273	The proposal presented has a background in the different convergence of interest payments in the calculation of social security benefits. According to the law today, interest payments may be required on benefits received that are greater than those claimed, but one does not have the right to interest on arrears in the event of underpayment of social security. This question has been raised on several occasions, and in the context of the recommendation of the Social Security Committee in 1990, the sample considered that it should be considered that interest should also be paid to us in the event of arrears in social security benefits, as is done in some other countries. This was also the subject of an overall committee on the treatment of new public protection laws in 1997. The Committee then asked the Government to come back to Stortinget on its own matter. Later, in spite of the wording of today's provisions, the Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has raised questions of public interest, which may nevertheless be subject to a certain amount of interest. This is now for investigation in the Ministry of Justice. It shall also be pointed out that, in the light of the views of the Social Committee, the Government has set up a working group to assess these issues and, once this work has been completed, will return to Stortinget with any new legislative proposal. On this basis, a unanimous committee proposes that the motion by Mr T. Nesvik and Mr I. Alvheim be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1288	The reason why this Document No. The 8-proposal was made, is that there are regular cases where the Swedish National Social Security Agency has paid incorrect social security payments or has not paid anything at all. There is something wrong when you can charge interest of 0.5 pst on the public side. per 1 % the month in which benefits received in violation of fairness and good faith are recovered, see: Section 22-15, first sentence of the National Social Security Act, while, according to Sections 22-17 of the same Act, social security does not provide interest upon the payment of benefits. There is something that is completely wrong here, when, among other things, a widow, as we heard for some time ago, for 11 years did not receive her legal survivor's pension of approx. 1 000 kroner per year. months. When she finally got paid the amount she was entitled to, this had been accumulated to NOK 143 000. Of this, the public taxed NOK 60000, but she did not receive any interest on the same amount. It is a discrimination and it must be brought to an end. Interest should be introduced in the event of a post-payment of benefits from the public sector, and accordingly Sections 22 to 17 of the Swedish Social Security Act must be amended. However, when the Progress Party does not promote concrete proposals in this matter, it is because, according to the letter of the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa of 12 May this year, it refers to the fact that the Ombudsman of the Stortinge for the administration raised questions that, despite the wording of Sections 22-17, people's rights may nevertheless be considered to have a certain obligation to pay interest, and that this question is now to be clarified in the Ministry of Justice. I hope that this clarification will soon be available, and that this discrimination will now be lifted, and that it will be done in such a way that interest will be given on the afterpayment of benefits from popular security.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1305	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 684]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1319	I would like to make a brief statement to the Right's view on this matter. The right has, in all respects, been opposed to the AFP scheme. Some of our scepticism has been due to the fact that the scheme is becoming expensive for society, and it now turns out that the scheme has become much more expensive than the parties originally expected. We want to refer to the comments from the Right in Innst. O. No 54 for 1993-94 and Innst. S. No 188 for 1992-93, where the Right was opposed to reducing the retirement age of the AFP scheme. In addition, we will show that demographic developments in Norway indicate that as much as possible should be stimulated to remain economically active for as long as possible. The present proposal is moving in the opposite direction. On that basis, the Right will vote against the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1328	The President assumes that the Advance Party will also oppose this law, as stated in the vote. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 684]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1344	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administration, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1351	This case is a follow-up to Storting’s consent to include EU Directive 95/47 on technical standards for TV in Norwegian law. The proposal provides for a transition to the so-called widescreen format for TV, i.e. 16:9 format, or more understandable: a transition to television that looks more like a film canvas in format. In addition, the law imposes requirements on future television receivers to enable them to receive digital broadcasts. The law also requires cable TV companies to install the necessary equipment to pass these signals on to viewers. The Committee shall adopt a unanimous opinion, which shall be in line with the Government’s proposals. However, the Committee points out that several hearing bodies have pointed out that the law has not been up-to-date in relation to technological developments. The EU Directive was adopted in 1995, and four years is a long time in this sector. The Committee therefore calls on the Government to come back with the necessary adaptations and any legislative changes in line with technological developments. The soon-to-present convergence selection will be an important highlight in this respect. The Committee also stresses that the new technology referred to in the law should be made available to as many TV viewers as possible. The issue that has caused the Committee the greatest concern is that cable TV networks with less than 10 000 active connections, or subscribers, should be exempted from the law. This means that very many viewers are not guaranteed to benefit from the changes proposed by the law if the cable TV companies do not follow up and install new technology. The Committee bases the Government's promises to follow developments closely and, at the same time, to set a lower limit through regulations when the Government considers it necessary. The Committee has noted that the Ministry does not consider it necessary to impose penalties. The justification is that legislation will affect a limited number of actors in a transparent market. The Committee endorses this, but would stress the need to follow developments closely and, where appropriate, review this in the context of the review of the law by the Ministry in the follow-up to the Convergence Committee. I would also like to add that if the Government chooses to set a lower limit of connectivity, from 10,000 to 1,000 subscribers, the number of actors will increase considerably, and therefore it would be more natural to have to consider penalties. That is to the extent that an important law we are adopting today. However, it is a law that has been out of date in some areas before its adoption. Of course, it is a cross-thinking that the process of implementing the EU Directive has taken so long that some of the technical standards explicitly mentioned in the law are already technology in the past. This also says something about the rate of change that is in this area, and the development that we are awaiting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1372	I am pleased that the Committee unanimously endorses the proposal to adopt a separate law on technical standards for the transmission of television signals. I would just like to comment briefly on a couple of points that were also raised by the rapporteur. The Committee notes that several hearing bodies have pointed out that the law is not fully up-to-date in relation to technological developments. This is right. It is related to developments since the adoption of the Directive. Of course, we will come back with amendments when the directive is amended. But we are dealing with the directive that has now been adopted in the EU. We'll look into this when the Convergence Committee's investigation is being processed. Then we will also consider whether the law is going to enter the telecommunications law or the broadcasting law. As I pointed out in my media policy statement, we are in a field of rippling development. We must therefore be prepared to make rapid changes as progress is made. The Committee points out that the requirement of 10000 active connections can appear to be high and asks us to consider whether networks with fewer subscribers can be covered by the law. Of course, we will follow developments closely, and if necessary, we will set a lower limit in the regulation of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1383	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. The president assumes that there is a need for a short break. [[Fotation, see page 684]] Things are moving too fast!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1399	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President, with strong doubts, as the debaters do not appear to be present in the Chamber, will propose that there be a change of lines of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. The President has assumed that the rapporteur is present. However, she is not. In order to proceed with the proceedings, the President will give the floor to Mr Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1412	The Progress Party wonders what the background to this bill may be. Why does a majority in the UK want to restrict the marketing of opinions? Are not opinions on current societal issues one of the most important things we have in society, and should we not, as politicians, help to get them to our citizens in the simplest possible way? The point of view of the Progress Party in this area is quite clear. We want to help make it possible to advertise the democratic processes that are so important to society. The Progress Party sees this as a serious intervention in freedom of expression, and we cannot accept that a restriction such as this is placed on the most important process we have in society, namely the democratic process. It must be a paradox for the majority in this Chamber to be able to advertise for example. washing machines, but not for current societal issues and life views. If you want a ban on this kind of advertising, why don't you have a total ban, so that you can see some logic in the ban, and not as it is now, just have a ban in a type of media? The majority justify the prohibition, inter alia: that the strong groups in society without such a ban will have a better chance of profiling than others will. This is not a valid argument. The resource strengths, regardless of political decisions, will always have greater potential for profiling than others. That's what it is today, and that's how it will always be. The TV media today is not only reserved for the resources. It applies to all forms of advertising. If a nationwide advertising campaign is to be carried out, it will be no more expensive to do so via TV than through other forms of advertising. In addition, the advantage of the TV media comes as a very environmentally friendly way of advertising. New forms of dissemination of political messages can create a new and vital commitment to political work, which is fundamental and important in a democratic country such as Norway. The fact that some other countries have similar prohibitions is by no means a basis for Norway to have such laws. In some areas, Norway must be able to be a leading country. This case also raises some legal issues of a legal nature in relation to the Constitution § 100, the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights. These are difficult and partly unresolved questions, which it is not easy for the Storting to know what a correct interpretation of is. On the other hand, for the Progress Party, it would not be surprising if this prohibition were contrary to both the Constitution § 100 and the international conventions mentioned above. When it is signaled from all sides that there is no clear answer to the questions that can be asked about this, it is a pity, in the opinion of the Progress Party, that it has not been possible to spend any longer time on the matter. For example: To carry out a consultation on these issues, Stortinget could have brought valuable ballast from an independent and highly competent expertise, e.g. the university environments, before the case was finally dealt with. Another question is why it should be allowed to advertise political messages on radio but not on television. The Progress Party cannot see that the Government or the political majority can truthfully justify this. However, the Progress Party is pleased that political advertising on radio is now being opened up and believes that this will help to open up such advertising on television as well. Radio is a very important communication channel in many communities. Local radio will therefore play an important role in the dissemination of political messages and the promotion of life views. Local television is growing in many communities and may be the most important communication channel in the future. Local television is a medium that will be well suited to political advertising, which could increase the involvement of local political processes. This must be a moment for all political parties to agree on. In local television, local political parties and organisations can get to the population with their views and create an engagement around them. Local television channels will be able to receive additional revenues with this option, which will be very important for their continued existence. The party of progress believes, although we now seem to have a ban, that it will not take long before this kind of advertising will be opened up on television as well. In this way, the ban that we are adopting here today will be only of a temporary nature. It's not like those who buy advertising on television can go ahead as they want. All advertisers must stay within reasonable limits and adhere to rules on good marketing ethics and to the laws of the injury. The legal provisions that we already have in these areas will help to keep this kind of advertising within acceptable limits, like other forms of advertising. Finally, I would like to promote the joint motion by the Progressive Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1431	Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the suggestion to which he referred. The next speaker is Grethe G. Fossum, who should have really started the debate. Grethe G. Fossum is the rapporteur on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1436	President! I am sorry that I was not present when the matter began. Political advertising has never been permitted in ether mediums. Before embellishment of the broadcasting monopoly, there was a general ban on advertising on radio and TV. As media developments speeded up, the issue of advertising on radio and TV was investigated by the Coolings Committee, which gave its position in 1984. I would like to stress that political and religious advertising is not the only form of advertising that is forbidden. It is not allowed to advertise weapons and toys, and advertising aimed at subconsciousness is also illegal. There are many Norwegian editors who are librarians of freedom of expression. They believe that any prohibition regulation, whether in the case of advertising or other publication, is a threat to freedom of expression. The general freedom of expression is provided for in Section 100 of the Constitution, while there are exceptions that affect freedom of expression in many other laws. It has therefore been important to appoint a broad-based freedom of expression Commission under the direction of Francis Sejerstedt. The work of this Commission is likely to be completed in 1999. I don't think it'll be a happy day for the social debate when you open the way for the ether media to show life-view advertising and political advertising. Until now, despite all the political discussions and agendas have been shaped by politicians and the media in a sort of eternal struggle. And no matter how populist – and daunting – we are on each side, it at least guarantees that the standard of the debate is rooted in a social exposure, and not in a fee. We all know that the distinction between advertising and rhetoric, between politicians and PR agents, has become more and more unclear in recent years, and many make money on just this immortality, among other things. the new media agencies. As politicians, we should always be aware that the advertising language must never take over in the public debate. The proposal that Odelstinget is dealing with today has a long history, and there are many parties in this room that have followed history carefully. Both the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party have always been united to ban political advertising and life-vision advertising in the ether media. What has led the Christian People's Party and the Center Party to make a different choice, they themselves have to explain, but that they have no fundamental justification, I'm pretty sure. I therefore find it difficult that such an important issue, which concerns our whole political life, should almost be a choice that goes on the peace of the government parties with each other. What the Government proposes in the proposition is to allow advertising for life's views and political messages on radio, but to ban it on television. A number of other European countries prohibit or restrict the right to broadcast advertising of life views or political messages on radio and television. Countries with which it is easy to compare, e.g. France, Ireland, Spain and the United Kingdom have such limitations. The reason given by many of these countries is that no special group should be able to use the media to undisputedly express its opinion and, for example, to use it. by means of financial means for the purchase of advertising, preventing the objectors from coming up with a reply. It should be possible for all parties to respond to criticism, whether they have money or not. The Proposition takes on its own Section 100 of the Basic Law, on the protection of freedom of expression, and the majority of the Committee supports the Government's view, namely that a ban on advertising of life's views and political messages can be regarded as an acceptable restriction on freedom of expression, and thus does not conflict with the Basic Law § 100. As regards Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights, Article 19, this majority agrees with the Government's conclusion that a ban does not conflict with our international obligations. The Workers' Party considers it important to prohibit advertising of life views or political messages on television. The background to the ban on advertising for life's views is that religious questions and life's views deeply affect personal feelings, and that advertising in this area can be offensive to many people, whether on TV or on radio. This will affect a number of religious communities and life-vision organisations aimed at promoting uprisings or at preaching a religious message. The term ‘political message’ covers all communications, whatever their form, which are intended to promote accession or influence. The majority of the Committee also supports the fact that State media management, which is currently overseeing the advertising rules of the Broadcasting Act and regulations that are not within the consumer area, takes over the supervision of advertising rules for life views and political messages.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1468	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1471	Political advertising and advertising of life views should therefore not be permitted in ether mediums, but this is permitted in all other media and advertising channels. Does the Workers' Party see no problem at all that this kind of advertising is allowed in newspapers, on the Internet, on large posters and in brochures that we get in the mailbox, while it should not be allowed in the ether media? How will Grethe G. Fossum characterise the Workers' Party's numerous and expensive advertising campaigns in the election campaigns – are they stupid or informative? I see that the Workers' Party, after we are now probably opening up access to at least radio advertising today, will consider buying advertising time in connection with the election campaign. How will Grethe G. Fossum deal with it – will she respond by saying that we must avoid this because it will seem daunting to the public debate, or will the Workers' Party now accept that this possibility will be opened and present high-quality, good advertising that will be informative to the Norwegian electorate? Does not Grethe G. Fossum see that it is doubtful in relation to freedom of expression to differentiate between the different types of media mentioned here? The Labour Party sees some problems with humanitarian organisations, nature protection organisations and trade unions, such as LO, shall not have access to the dissemination of their message by means of radio and television advertising? And see Grethe G. Fossum that there may be some danger to democracy and seem daunting if, for example, LO could inform about any of its views on current policy issues through the ether media?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1482	It's actually so that the Workers' Party sees more than what the Right does. We see and see and take the consequence that the ether medium is a very effective medium, which actually has more weight and goes further into people's consciousness than the printed media. So to the question that I expected would come, what will happen when radio advertising is allowed. In fact, the Workers' Party opposes the cash support, but we do not prohibit our members from receiving cash support when the law comes into force. And it's actually also so that even though the Right has passed some laws, something a lot of right-wing people are doing, there's nothing corrupt about it. But the social development that Right wants, with the permission of advertising for life's views and political messages on radio and TV, we believe that we are involved in undermining the democracy we have. It will make the political debate much flatter and much less exciting than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1489	In the newspaper Our Country of 5 June 1999, University Fellow Kirre Eggen says that it is contrary to the Constitution to keep political advertising and life-vision advertising away from the television screens. He goes on to say: ‘There are no real grounds for distinguishing between radio and television. And political statements are at the heart of freedom of expression.’ How does the representative Fossum want to deal with this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1499	I have also read what the Kyrre Egg says about political advertising. It's clear that here you have different opinions about how this relates to the Constitution. What the Labour Party is doing is dealing with the assessment of this by the Ministry of Justice and the Government. If the representative of the Progress Party does not think the assessments that have been made are good enough, then he must have a different expertise. It is likely that this expertise will lie in a legal case in which one evaluates the different things, because it is not, in fact, the magnificence representatives who have to judge whether the laws are consistent or not. This is a matter where I think you have to choose which expertise you want to support, and here the Labour Party has chosen to support the Ministry of Justice and the Government in their assessment of whether this is contrary to the Constitution or not. What we've chosen to ignore is the social consequences of removing the ban that we've had so far, and the social consequences that the Progress Party really wants. And the Progress Party is probably the party that has the most money to spend just on political advertising. They may also have the political messages that are best suited to advertising, because they are short and concise and low in content. So it's maybe the Progress Party that's going to make the most out of advertising.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1506	I am happy to hear that the Workers' Party does not prohibit its members from receiving cash support, even if they were against the law. That was a useful piece of information. In the debate on cash support, the representative Fossum was very concerned that we had to have an empirical basis for what we said. The representative Fossum was constantly asking for research when we had the debate on cash support. The representative Fossum says very clearly that TV and radio are so powerful media, they have so much impact, that this would be scary. It would undermine democracy, said the representative Fossum, if we opened up political advertising and advertising of lies in these media. Then I would like to ask the following questions: What kind of research is the representative of Fossum based on? Can she refer to a research report, or maybe two, that underpins this? The Ministry also claims that this is a strong medium, and it also claims the Consumer Ombudsman, but when one goes further into the seams, no one has a report that can justify this. Is it not a cross of thought that large advertisers choose media other than television to advertise their products? Not all advertising for a product is on television. If it had been as the representative Fossum claims, that this is an overwhelming medium, of course, all advertisers would choose the television as their advertising medium. But they don't. Could the representative Fossum explain that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1516	I called for a lot of research when it came to cash support. It was an area where you had some numbers that could show us what the world would be like when it was introduced, so it might have been easier to get research results in that area. It's true, as Greece says, that we haven't been able to find out for research that shows that the ether media have a strong impact. But what we know is that the advertising industry actually spends $1 billion on TV 2 in a year advertising. I've never seen the advertising industry to be stupid, actually it's pretty smart. And it doesn't throw a billion kroner out of the window, or out of the TV route, if it doesn't believe that advertising has any influence at all. The industry must feel that it is selling something. The strong thing about TV – strong may not be the right word to use – is that it reaches a lot of people in a short time, and it helps to create a common awareness of that particular product when you can afford to broadcast it on TV. So it's maybe only the Right who doesn't believe that the ether media have the impact that the advertising world pays for. And maybe the representative of Greece should listen to the advertisers when they choose to advertise on TV and on radio, which is also very strong.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1523	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1526	The debate on political advertising shows that this is a complicated subject and that it is easy to get hurt to simplify the problem. In this context, it may be important to consider that until now we have had a ban on advertising for political parties and life-vision organisations in the ether media. The current regulation, which was laid down in 1997, reads as follows: ‘It may not be advertised for life's views or political messages.’ The background for this was that a majority in the Stortinget had repeatedly stated that this type of advertising should be prohibited. The Ombudsman has then pointed out that a ban should have a clear legal basis. With this in mind, today we are discussing a proposal to allow advertising for life's views and political messages on radio, but to ban it on television. In stating that the Government has chosen to distinguish such advertising on television and its equivalent on radio, it has stressed that television has greater impact and impact than radio. In this context, it has been shown that the European Court of Human Rights has stressed that television is a particularly powerful medium. So of this, the government has stopped that radio is a medium with less influence than television. In addition, the Government has stated that radio advertising is more reasonable to produce and will therefore not favour capital groups or organisations equally. The representatives of the Party and of the Right have commented that the proposal represents a restriction on freedom of expression. Yes, the Progress Party even claims that it is contrary to the Basic Law § 100. To this is to say that the government has carefully assessed this, and the conclusion is that it represents a restriction on freedom of expression, well to note a legitimate restriction, which is not, therefore, contrary to the Basic Law, but is, on the contrary, acceptable, yes even desirable. Now it is not given that full release of all kinds of advertising in all media is the solution to protect freedom of expression. Here I agree with our Minister of Culture, who recently asked a similar question in a newspaper article in the Newspaper on 20 February 1999, pointing out that a limited ban can help to promote freedom of expression, among others. by not giving any advantage to resource-intensive groups in terms of the possibilities to promote broadcasting views’. The Council of State also points out that the experience of now also does not indicate that the current form of advertising ‘has an information value that makes it a source of enrichment for the debate on society. Rather on the contrary. I share the Minister of Culture's views on this matter. It must also be clear that the media are free to promote the interests of weak groups in the media and in the social debate. We still need to protect freedom of expression, but it's important to be clear that it's actually the freedom of expression we're fighting for, and not increasing the impact of commercial interests. A ban on advertising of political parties and life-vision organisations in the ether media does not in any way prevent the public debate on political or religious issues. The prohibition shall be limited both in terms of medium, i.e. television, and in terms of the manner in which the opinions on politics or outlook on life are prohibited, i.e. in the form of advertising. I would also refer to the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 10, which guarantees every right to have their own opinions and to receive and communicate information and ideas without interference by public authorities and irrespective of national borders. However, this right may be restricted if other important considerations warrant it. If one shares the assessment that the ban on advertising of life views or political messages does not conflict with the protection of freedom of expression, then the question of whether or not the ban should be maintained becomes a political issue. And that's what we're going to take a stand for today. The Christian People's Party shares the view of those hearing bodies who consider it to be in breach of the ban on advertising of life's views or political messages. It is important to stress that, through broadcasting, the public should as far as possible be entitled to factual and comprehensive information on the political and life-seeking reality. All groups should also have as much equal opportunities as possible to promote their views. For the Christian People's Party, the consequence of this is that we do not want this information to be transmitted via television advertising. Today, we are experiencing an increasing tabloidisation of the political debate. We do not want any further slippage by allowing television advertising to be broadcast. At the same time, we do not conceal that some of the considerations that advocate a ban on broadcasting advertising for life's views and political messages are less burdensome for advertising on radio than for television advertising. It is with this as a background that we will recommend the Government's proposal. I take up proposal No. 2 from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1550	Ola T. Loans have taken up the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1555	The Christian People's Party has always supported the ban on political advertising that we have at least believed we had and that we have believed has been effective. When we try to take the initiative to make it more effective, the Christian People's Party comes back with a slightly different attitude. In this regard, I have some questions: why not allow political advertising on local TV when allowed in P4? Where does the principal distinction between P4 and local TV go? After the representative has shown how problematic it will be to defend it, I can follow up with the following questions: How long does the Christian People's Party believe that their attitude towards political advertising on TV will prevail before taking the consequences of today's first liberalisation and taking the step fully and allowing political advertising also on TV?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1562	The representative Alstad has asked me two questions. He points out that the Christian People's Party has previously taken a stand against the advertising of life's views and political messages in the ether media, and that is true. We still have a restrictive position on this, which I have tried to support in my speech. We don't want a slide in this field. The first question from Alstad was why we won't accept political advertising on local TV when we can allow it in P4. Now we haven't argued in principle at all for the position that we're going in favour of, and that the government has recommended in the proposition. However, we are seeing developments today moving towards an ever-expanding of borders between different media. When you've focused on putting a distinction here, it's because you see it as the most realistic position, the most realistic limit to draw. And when the boundary is drawn between radio and television, the answer to the question from the representative Alstad is natural, because one is about TV, and the other is about radio. So to the question of how long do we think our attitude will be prevailing before we take the consequences and go to a full slide. It's not that it necessarily has to go that way, it can, of course, be possible that we can create a majority for another attitude, that can point the other way. But to be realistic, I think this is a matter of holding a dam, trying to curb as much as possible for a development that we'll probably see shooting speed in time to come. I can't answer what's going to happen tomorrow. Now we're trying to hold this dam and take the consequence that we don't want the political debate to slip out. We do not want an advertising war on television between political parties and organizations. First of all, we want a fair and honest debate that can provide the most information to people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1571	I find in many ways that Lånken let the cat out of his bag in his last reply when he says that they have not argued at all in principle for their vision. That is quite correct, and I feel that in this case we are in the same situation as we have been in with regard to the cut in the press support, where the government parties have put forward a proposal that is, in our opinion, at least useful, but so they have no will or ability to follow up this with arguments for, but say that one should stand, and that the dam is about to break, etc. Does Lånke see that there may be a problem with regard to the Constitution § 100, with regard to the protection of freedom of expression, that advertising should now be opened on radio, but not on TV? Would it make it even easier for those who are going to sue about this, if necessary, to reach a court order? If it is the case that the Lännk and the Christian People's Party do not have any fundamental arguments in relation to this, why could not the Christian People's Party wait for the position of the Freedom of Speech Commission, which is just around the corner? It would have been interesting to see what the Freedom of Speech Commission actually says about this. The right has not established that this is contrary to the Constitution. We have doubts about it, but we don't get it. I see that the majority is relying on the Justice Department's assessment. There are a number of lawyers who oppose this, and there are a number of press organisations who say that this ban is difficult to defend in relation to freedom of expression. The question, on which Mr Alstad was also concerned, is: why not allow advertising on local television, when we know that the price of local television advertising is much lower than the corresponding one, for example. local viewer, and absolutely much lower than in P4? The loan was concerned that it was not just the resources that were to be released. Could it not be nice if some small parties could get away with local television advertising in connection with the local election campaign we are now going into?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1581	The representative of Greece and the Right says in the recommendation that their position has not been justified in any particular desire to receive such advertising, but they are whole-hearted that this will not happen. It is very much in line with the basic liberal view of the Right, where – in line with the Advance Party – they are fighting to get full transparency in such advertising. The Christian People's Party sees that political and life-seeking messages create feelings in people, and they stir up many emotions. We want this communication to be done in a sober and factual way, not tabloidized or in a poster language, which only speaks in capital letters without being told what you want to say – you say something else. That's the background for us being restrictive and wanting to hold on to this, not least in terms of the strongest and most pervasive of all media, namely TV. As regards Section 100 of the Basic Law, the Ministry of Justice’s Legal Affairs has assessed this, and the Government has come to the conclusion that this is a sound legal platform. We'll have to wait and see what court decisions might come to later, but so far we've found that we're on a safe footing with the background of the assessments made by the Government. With regard to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, we have also underlined in its position that we have seen no point in waiting for it, all the time when the mandate of the Commission on Freedom of Speech does not contain anything about this. There is therefore no reason to expect the freedom of expression Commission to comment on this particular issue. It would probably be nice if local parties were allowed to advertise political messages on local TV, but now we have set this limit. We'll look at the framework conditions of local TV, and whether we can find other ways to strengthen their economic base. This probably does not represent any great potential either, so I think we need to go other ways to strengthen just local programming.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1594	I think it is very interesting what the representative Lånke here corresponds to the lines. The Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party have always been united on the prohibition of political advertising and the advertising of life's views. Today, the representative Lånker answers that this is not a fundamental question, and then there must be a practical question or a value question for the representative Lånker and the Christian People's Party. He also says that he does not want a slip, but there is no way to control it in relation to the radio. He also says that he would like to assess whether it will be possible to create a majority in the future in favour of banning this type of advertising on radio and TV. But he could have had a majority today! The government, together with the Labour Party, has a majority, and that majority could have been held today. That's why I think it's a bit pathetic when the government parties have probably discussed this between themselves, and the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have lost this case in the Government. I think it is sad that a fundamental question has been made into a practical arrangement to make the government survive. It must be a cross of thought for the representative Lånke that the Right Party and the Advance Party are very happy that they have taken the first step into the misery of political advertising and life - vision advertising on radio. Does not the representative Loan from the Christian People's Party think this is difficult?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1603	The representative Grethe G. Fossum comes with a line that is essentially a variation over a theme that several people have been in. I see no reason to repeat everything I have said in my post and in the previous two answers. It is true that we have had a restrictive view of advertising for political messages and life-seeing messages, and we are continuing to do so. We like to cooperate with the Workers' Party to keep this limit on which we have now chosen to fall. I've pointed out the evolution that is going on today, eradicating the boundaries between the different media. This raises a number of questions which are kind of new, and to which one did not have to decide a few years ago, when one took a position on this matter. We see that evolution is going very fast. I think it's important all the time to consider where we can find the most realistic position to do the least possible damage to the political debate and the life-seeing influence. I think it's hard to see where evolution will move forward. This is about strong developments due to technological developments, commercial influence, etc. I believe that, together with the Labour Party, we should continue to fight against a slippage, against a start of political debate and for a more factual flow of information, for a better form of debate. And we're going to do that together, and we're still going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-08-lower.ana.ud224e1610	The cord shift is over. The scheduled time for the morning meeting is now at hand. The President will propose that this meeting be suspended and that a new meeting be set at 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
