ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e56	The representatives of Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, Grethe Fossli, Finn Kristian Marthinsen, Laila Kaland, Odd Eriksen, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Ingvald Godal, Gunn Karin Gjul and Jørgen Kosmo, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The President will propose that this morning's sitting, if necessary, continue beyond the scheduled time at noon. 15.00 until the current map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e98	: With a few minor changes, the budgetary position of the Committee is in line with the decisions previously taken by the Presidency with regard to the budget of the Grand Duchy, the budget of the National Audit Office, the budget of the EOS Committee and the budget of the Civil Ombudsman. The Committee, in cooperation with the Stortinget, has made some rather minor changes. It is primarily related to the way in which the party groups in Stortinget are supposed to operate for a relatively challenging time for the large-scale representatives. The budget for the party groups has been added, and it has been decided to abandon the previous arrangement where special appropriations were allocated to the budget and to the work of the EOS. The previous appropriations and the increase in special items are now assumed to be within the ordinary representation and group grants. However, the Committee has pointed out that the Storting is facing quite major challenges in the future, seeking to adapt the activities of the Storting to the challenges that exist. These are the challenges posed by both environmental development, the development of the relationship between the key players and the voters, and the overall social development, which means that the pressure on the individual key players is gradually increasing compared to being available and representative of the very different groups represented by the key players. It is no longer sufficient to deal solely with the traditional batch lines, as it has been in the past. To that, society is too big a change. In addition to this, we have experienced a rather significant globalisation not only of the economy but also of the policy, which means that the Storting and the representatives of big business have to deal in many ways with a number of international organisations and institutions and with a number of international developments. The Committee therefore believes that if it is to be possible for each representative of the aggregates to operate in close contact with his constituents while addressing the major challenges facing us in the future, there is a need for a wide-ranging committee, at the premises of the representatives of the aggregates, I would have said, to examine the major work challenges ahead of us, and to look at whether the administration of the Stortinge, the structure of the Stortinge and the structure of the party groups are adapted to the needs of each representative of the aggregates. The institution of the Storting as such, and the party groups, have in part received large financial increases in their appropriations over the last few years. The additions have been necessary, but of course there's reason from time to time to sit down and see if the additions and changes that have been made have been correct, and whether that is the changes we're going to be living with in the future. Are we meeting the challenges of the Grandfather’s representative by further building up Stortingen’s administration, or are there other instruments that we should implement? We haven't concluded, far from it, but we've asked the Presidency of the Great Britain to set up a wide-ranging selection that's being commissioned to assess these challenges. What is perhaps remarkable, however, in the committee position, is that the Progress Party believes in principle that the public should not provide support for parties or party groups on the Stortinget. I think this is very special. I believe that the only way to secure the position of political parties in the future development of democracy is through public provision for the various parties to have an economy that enables them to operate properly. Making the political parties in Norway entirely dependent on support and appropriations from different institutions and businesses will, as I see it, be a very unfortunate development. On the other hand, a rationally structured public support for the parties, I think, is the only way to maintain the independence of the parties, while at the same time facilitating the parties – which have their natural place, their natural place and their necessary place in the development of democracy – to be able to take in and deal with the new challenges. I must therefore say that I am very surprised that, on a principle basis, the Progress Party believes that public support for political parties should be phased out, without any indication of how, if any, the parties should be able to function in our democracy. Another amazing thing is that the Progress Party also does not share the general desire to set up a sample to address the challenges that individual representatives will face in the future. There may be completely different things than larger appropriations that are the solution to those challenges, and it's amazing that the Progress Party doesn't want to be involved. I hope that the Advance Party, with the size it has in Stortinget, chooses to participate in this work when the sample is established. With these words, I recommend the adoption of the Storting budget proposal as it stands. I would also like briefly to say a few words about the Ombudsman of Stortinge for the administration and about the Riksrevision. It is quite obvious that as society becomes more complicated, as individual people have to deal with different institutions in a variety of ways, the need for and the need for us to have an Ombudsman for the administration that works according to our intentions is strengthened. The growth in the number of cases and the complexity of the cases dealt with by the Ombudsman underlines this. It is therefore important that the Stortinget not only distributes money, but also demands how the funds allocated to the Civil Ombudsman are used. But, of course, it is important that, through the annual appropriations, we ensure that we have both local, equipment and staff to meet the future challenges. I think the Ombudsman is becoming more important in the years to come than in the previous years. It has to do with social development. Similarly, the Riksrevision. We all want the Storting to be able to draw up guidelines on what should be the priorities of public administration in the use of funds, and that the various decisions, whether legislative or other, taken by the Storing should be followed up by the administration. In order to have a reasonable control over the follow-up of Storting's intentions, the Riksrevision is a very important institution. The fact that you are now going more to the administrative audit is, as I see it, a positive development, because it makes us not only control how the money is spent, but also whether the Storting's intentions are being followed up, and whether the money is being used correctly in relation to what has been the Storting's intentions. I see this as a very important part of the future work of the National Audit Office. In this area, too, it is necessary for the Storting to ensure that the National Audit Office has the resources it needs to do in order to do this important work. However, I allow myself to say that this does not have to be done in such a way that the Storting helps the control system to take over the Norwegian community altogether. We must not, on the part of Storting, make such demands, nor be so specific in our guidelines, that most of the resources agree to verify that the resources are being used properly. Of course, we are interested that the resources deployed in this society are used as much as possible for the production of services and public service to the citizens we represent. Therefore, of course, control and audit activities need to be aligned with the overall actions. I don't want to get too much messed up in detail. Retail management can be relatively easy to deal with, but I don't think that's the way we're going to meet the challenges of the future. In the case of the EOS Committee, it has been necessary to provide them with new premises and to provide them with new data equipment, including: to meet the need for safety. And we feel confident that with the additional investments now proposed, the EOS Committee will be able to operate within the framework that the Storting has drawn up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e132	As the chairman of the committee explained, it is not the big disagreements about the budgetary position that we have here, and where we disagree, that is the Progress Party that has been foresaw and that has tabled a number of amendments. The reason is that with the social development we now have, it is important that both the National Audit Office and not least the Civil Ombudsman receive the necessary resources and resources and human capacity that enable them to be equipped to meet the challenges of society. But that's not what the committee leader said in his main post, that the Progress Party is not of the opinion that the demands of the single representative and the demands of the individual political party have changed and have become bigger now, as society has changed. However, we in the Progress Party are of the opinion that, in terms of budgetary priorities, we must give priority to the whole. We must first take what is most important, on the basis of the financial framework we have. It is significant that the Committee has spent the most time dealing with our special budget, and that the group leaders and the individual secretaries who organise the Group work on the Stortinget have also spent time on providing more financial resources for each of the party groups. I have to say that in the Progress Party we have doubts that it is the individual representatives of the big business and the individual groups here in this Chamber who have the worst working conditions in the area that we are dealing with in our budget. In fact, in the Progress Party, we believe that large-scale representatives and parties represented in this room have both good help from the employees here at Stortinget, with the service they can provide us, and good technology. There are also opportunities for some parties to hire people on the basis of the support given to the individual batches. So that's not where the pressure is greater. Then I would like to explain a little bit about why the Progress Party has amendments. We have an amendment that says that we don't think it's right that the parties should give priority to themselves, for example. The Civil Ombudsman. We know that the case number of the Civil Ombudsman has increased since 1998. We also know that the stock of the case has increased, and as the stock of the case has increased, the time of the proceedings has also increased. There is a general problem in general government and public services. It is worth noting that the complaints that come now also come from people who have not used the scheme in the past, and relate to matters in which the Civil Ombudsman has not been so much away in the past. It is therefore important that the systematic surveys, the visits to be carried out by the Civil Ombudsman on his own initiative, provide the framework for their follow-up. In addition, we know that the Ombudsman is also responsible for making representations. a separate Secretary of the EOS Committee. It is clear that with this complexity and with the tasks that the office has to deal with in addition to the conversion that you also have, it is important that we are leading were in this area, and that we give the Civil Ombudsman the hand bill he deserves. We have done so on the part of the Progress Party, and that is why we have proposed an increase of over 2 million. kr to it. Otherwise, it is worth noting, as the chairman of the committee also stressed, that it is important that the Riksrevision has a framework that enables it to carry out the important work for us in the committee. After all, the National Audit Office is the body that contributes to most of the cases dealt with by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, and on the part of the Progress Party, we are very pleased with the work carried out by the National Audit Office in this area. It is important to continue the dialogue with the Riksrevision, and it is good to see the Riksrevision coming through, that the levels – both internally and externally – take the Riksrevision seriously. We see that all the important issues raised by the Riksrevision have resulted in the administration and others included in the investigations carried out by the Riksrevision complying with them. Otherwise, it has also been a discussion of the Nobel Committee in connection with our budget. We know that it is the Stortinget who appoints the Nobel Committee, but the Stortinget has no connection with this committee. The majority cannot impose anything on the Nobel Committee in terms of appointment or other matters; it is an independent foundation, which we must take care of. But in the wake of the financial resources that have been provided in our budget, the Nobel Committee has received appropriations such as: goes to library operations. On the part of the Progress Party, we have a comitology comment that we do not think it is right that the Nobel Institute's library should receive financial resources directly from our responsibility and under our budget chapters. It's not because the library's work isn't important, we think it is, but it's because it's beyond the borders of the country, and by others, should never be questioned by the independence of the Nobel Institute. That is why we have said in a note that we think it is natural that future appropriations for the Nobel Institute's library should be given through regular budget lines, including other libraries. So it's not bad will on our part when it comes to giving money, but I want to remind you that the foundation is quite rich, that they have a lot of money. In the light of the comments we have, I would like to raise the amendment of the Advance Party, which is on page 7 of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e149	Vidar Kleppe has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e152	Expenditure on investments and operations in Stortinget has increased significantly over the 1990s. Purchase and rehabilitation of Lower Vollgate 18, refurbishment of offices, renewal of ventilation systems and improvement of internal communications are some of the things that have been done and that have also helped to improve working conditions for us who work here. The government's draft budget for the Stortinget, the Civil Ombudsman, the EOS Committee and the National Audit Office are in line with the institutional proposals. However, the size has decided to increase the framework area 14 in addition to the proposal by NOK 2647 000. NOK 370000 of which is proposed to the EOS Committee for the transfer to new premises and NOK 2277000 for the subsidy to the batch groups. The principle of granting public financial support to the operation of the party groups in Stortinget, I believe that is all reason to insist. In order to maximise the practical and political situation under which representatives work, and to ensure that no outside interests can be influenced by financial contributions. The great changes we see in society also characterize the daily work of the Storting. The paper flood is huge. The amount of issues and their complexity seems to be increasing. Information and communication technologies have provided new opportunities, but also lead to many requests to deal with them. The store wants openness and contact with the audience and voters. At the same time, it is important to ensure that the individual wholesaler has working conditions that enable it to be available, to keep in touch with its own country, its own party and to address new issues. Conversion's in for the time being. It is also time to focus on how Stortinget's place in future Norwegian democracy is to be developed and secured. Therefore, the Christian People’s Party supports the proposal to set up a wide-ranging selection mandated to assess these challenges and to propose future actions related to working arrangements for the large-scale representatives. In this respect, it is also interesting to examine how other comparable parliaments meet this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e167	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 861]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e181	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 862]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e195	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 863]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e209	The 6-year reform was adopted in the United Kingdom in the spring of 1994, with effect from the 1997-98 school year. Together with the second major education reform in the 1990s, Reform 94, the 6-year reform, Reform 97, has in practice provided the basis for a 13-year training course for the vast majority of children and young people in our country. In other words, the reform has promised our education system in the future, well anchored in the principle of unit school, which in particular has been a pillar of Norwegian school policy in the years following the war. But reforms cost money, as does Reform 97. When the Church, Education and Research Committee presented its position on changes to the primary school law, clear guidance was given as to the importance of clarifying the economic impact of the implementation of the reform, so that the municipalities could make the necessary preparations and transitional arrangements in time. As indicated in the Committee setting and Document No. 3:10, which deals with the National Audit Office’s study of the school facilities grants and the school leisure scheme in Reform 97, there are differing views between the Ministry and some municipalities on what can be defined as reasonable and reasonable prerequisites to provide the municipalities with full compensation for the costs they have incurred in implementing the reform. This issue has been dealt with in the Storting several times. The decision in the context of the 1997 state budget was important. At that time it was decided that an independent sample, the Cost Calculation Committee, should also be recalculated according to the local authorities’ investment costs associated with the reform. This sample, which was independent and broadly composed, also with representatives from the municipalities, presented its position on this in NOU 1998: 5 Reform 97 — Investment in school facilities. This setting means the ministry has followed up. As stated above, substantial emphasis was placed on the full coverage of the additional costs that the reform would entail. The coverage would include investments, operations, lightning and the school leisure system. The economic additional costs that the reform would entail for the municipalities were offset by a earmarked investment grant by the Stortinget. The investment compensation represents a not insignificant amount, a total of approx. SEK 5.2 billion. Those who have contributed to the scheme can provide assurance that this amount is approx. One billion dollars above what was originally foreseen. The investment compensation related to Reform 97 is based on an investment framework calculated on the basis of objective criteria and so-called calculation technical assumptions. As the Ministry points out, it has never been intended that the investment compensation should be a reimbursement scheme. According to the Ministry, the compensation scheme has provided the municipalities with a predictable financial framework and a good basis for planning the implementation of the measures to be covered by the compensation. Furthermore, it is important to stress, as the Ministry notes, that the concept of ‘full compensation’ for investments related to reform only includes the costs of providing additional pupils in primary school, and that compensation does not include expenditure relating to the introduction of a new curriculum for the other classes. This has also joined the Storting. There is also reason to stress, as stated in the Riksrevision report, that close to three quarters of the 336 municipalities that have responded to the Riksrevision study have indicated that the investment aid in the context of Reform 97 has been satisfactory, even very good. However, there is much evidence that, through the different treatments of Reform 97 in the Grand Duchy, expectations have been generated in the municipal sector that do not appear to be met by a significant number of municipalities in the country. Among other things, there is a project report prepared by Agderforschung on the funding of Reform 97 in Oslo, Drammen, Kristiansand, Stavanger and Tromsø, where the main message is that no full compensation has been granted on the basis of the assumptions given. The current rapporteurs in Kristiansand, Oslo, Tromsø and Trondheim have also raised these issues with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education, Education and Research. It is not satisfactory that we should live with such different opinions between municipalities and the ministry in the definition of what financial compensation should be granted for. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has no basis for giving either the ministry or the municipalities justice with a wide range of funds. In my opinion, it is also quite wrong to issue almost a blank authorisation, as the Progress Party does in the position, to a municipality which can demonstrate that the grants to school facilities and the implementation of the school leisure system have resulted in extra expenses in addition to the funds given, so that the state has only one thing to do: to squeeze out. We cannot consider ourselves finished with this matter. We must therefore be aware that the Norwegian Research Council on a mission from the Ministry is now to evaluate the work on Reform 97. The aim of this evaluation is to gain reliable knowledge about the development of primary school provision after reform 97. A number of key questions will naturally be the focus. But I would like to express on behalf of the Committee that we would like to see special attention given to the issues raised in the Riksrevision report on different opinions between the Ministry and the municipalities. The municipalities that have expressed strong objections are entitled to a clarification. I therefore assume that the department will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e240	Here we have probably a good contribution from the National Audit Office, which shows the work they have done, and the review they have had. At least it shows the benefits of having an up-to-date and active national audit. So over to the matter. It is not right, as case-rapporteur Gunnar Schaug of the Workers' Party says, that most municipalities are satisfied. In its press release, the National Audit Office states that the survey shows that 200 municipalities in the country indicate that the additional costs in addition to the State investment aid are, in their opinion, attributable to the implementation of the reform. So there are many municipalities that have implemented Reform 97, which feel that they have not been taken seriously. And when the municipalities can demonstrate that they have used more in investment to implement the reform than they have received from the state, it is a problem, not only for the municipality, but also for the ministry, because when the reform was adopted, it was said clearly that the real costs of implementing the reform were to be covered. We know that on the way, when this has been treated, several municipalities have made contributions, and several municipalities simply feel that they have not been taken seriously. So this is a bad thing. And I am very disappointed that the parties Right and Left do not follow up and support the Progress Party's remark that these municipalities, according to the decision taken when the reform was implemented, will receive financial compensation. So this is a kneecap, not for the municipalities, the rapporteurs and those who have made the investments, but a kneecap for the ministry's handling of this matter, because we know that there have been different views between the department and the relevant municipalities about where the compensation will go. It is true that the Storting has dealt with this matter several times, and the reason for this is that there is doubt about the decision that was taken in its time, and the follow-up to it. So here the central government is failing, the people talking about local self-government, and when the municipalities are implementing reforms, they're going to get paid for it. This shows that once they're in government, the premise doesn't matter any more. So over to what's the most serious thing in this case. It is claimed that the Norwegian Research Council will look into the matter. What assignment have they been given? I would like to ask the relevant State Council who is responsible for this matter in the Chamber here today: What mandate does the Norwegian Research Council have in this matter, which they will follow up on? The statement shows that the majority in this room will not give five flat ears to those municipalities that have incurred additional costs. The National Audit Office's report, which we are dealing with today, provides no compensation for municipalities, and when we know that more than 200 municipalities have complained about this – we know that, for example, the municipality of Kristiansand believes that they can safely demonstrate, according to the decisions taken on the implementation of the reform, that they, among other things, can. missing 58.6 million. kr – it is clear that the treatment given by the majority in this Chamber is not good enough to local government and local politicians in terms of financial compensation. This means that it is not useful to hide behind the Research Council, for the mandate of the Norwegian Research Council – and I would like it to be confirmed by the Council of State – that the Norwegian Research Council is not going to evaluate the economy in the implementation of the reform, but on the professional level. I have received the mandate of the Norwegian Research Council and it is clear that: ‘The Ministry wants a comprehensive evaluation of the reform. It is natural that both legal, economic, administrative, professional and pedagogical aspects of the reform should be researched." The majority thus say in this case, does not give the Norwegian Research Council – based on the mandate given to the Norwegian Research Council – the opportunity to grant crowns and ears, if the Norwegian Research Council agrees with the many municipalities that have complained, and with the Progress Party, on this matter. It's serious, and that's why I think it's time to ask the Council of State to clarify this. I want to be very happy if that's what the case rapporteur, Gunnar Schaug, says in this case, that the Stortinget must somehow have the opportunity to come back to it so that the municipalities that have not received the financial compensation they need to implement the reform under the decisions taken will receive the financial compensation. If that is how I can interpret the case rapporteur in this matter, I am satisfied. But we need clarification in the debate today, both on the part of the Council of State and on the part of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e258	The rapporteur has given a thorough account of the substance and assumptions of Reform 97. We are now in the process of getting an overview of the impact of Reform 97, and in this context, it is related to the economy itself. In the report of the Riksrevision, among other things: the economic conditions affected. The investments of approx. SEK 5.2 billion was earmarked for the reform, a reform that Stortinget has had and has clear assumptions to complete. What this matter concerns is whether the Ministry of Church, Education and Research has initiated and followed up grants to the municipalities, so that Reform 97 is implemented in accordance with the Stortingen's assumptions, but all the time on the assumption that the appropriations should be reform-related costs, i.e. costs directly linked to the reform’s need to increase the number of school places. Everyone has been aware that providing all 6-year-olds' places within the school system would cost considerable resources. What emerges from the National Audit Office’s survey is that there are different views in the local government sector about what can be taken as a direct cost of the reform and what is more or less cost related to upgrading and perhaps to the aftermath of more general school maintenance. The municipalities experience that the assumption of ‘full compensation’ has not been met. Perhaps the expression has created expectations that Stortinget has not meant. This possibility is also pointed out from the Riksrevision. To date, three-quarters of municipalities have given feedback that they are satisfied with the scheme – yes, they are actually very satisfied. With regard to the Ministry's premise for Reform 97, it is called inter alia: of 2 July d.o.b.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Ministry will draw attention to the fact that the concept of full compensation for reform-related investment costs covers only the costs incurred by municipalities in providing room for an additional student coal in primary school.’ This understanding of the economic assumptions of the reform has been discussed several times and endorsed by the Storting. It appears that several municipalities believe that the structural costs of the reform are not fully covered, as the majority of the committee has not yet taken a decision. In other words, the majority have not drawn any conclusions in the case, as the Ministry has commissioned the Norwegian Research Council to evaluate the work of Reform 97, not least the economic issues related to the reform. So this is not the way the Progress Party states in its comment that municipalities should cover all their costs to the school sector. What the Storting has decided is costs directly related to Reform 97.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e278	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e281	The last thing Odd Holten from one of the government parties said is quite important and quite crucial. But I have to make a clarification, and therefore I have to ask Odd Holten: How has he thought that the municipalities that have incurred extra costs in addition to the money they have received – at least they believe it themselves – in the implementation of the reform, can now have the financial compensation they claim after the decision taken by the Stortinget? I would also like the representative to say something about how long the municipalities will wait. What about a time clarification here? And how is Stortinget going to get back to this case so that one can do justice to the municipalities that have spent more money on the implementation of the reform of their own fund, because the state has not settled itself?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e288	I assume that the work now to be carried out by the Research Council will form the basis for an objective assessment of the actual costs directly related to this reform. There are two parties here: the municipal sector on the one hand and the ministry on the other. Once the Council has carried out its work, I assume that the report comes naturally to the Department and then of course also here to the Stortinget, if it is of such a nature that there are divergent views that make it necessary to deal with the matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e293	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e296	I refer you to the rapporteur's thorough examination of the matter and join him in his presentation on behalf of the majority. The Progress Party, in its particular comment in the position, has almost promised full coverage for any expenses the municipalities must have had in connection with Reform 97, without proposing a single crown to pay it with. That's what we call on my dialect at home in Troms to throw blues in the eyes of the municipal politicians. For those rapporteurs who now rightly demand compensation for the additional expenditure, nothing comes from the comment made by the Progress Party. For example, rapporteur Bjørg Wallevik in Kristiansand, who requires 48 million. kr, get something. She will be equally moneyless after she has read the eight lines that the Progress Party has sacrificed on this matter. The progress party does not have one penny to distribute, and they have seen this through the adjustment that we are dealing with today. I think it's okay to argue for your own excellence, but in the absence of that kind, you should stay too good to disinform about others, as Kleppe has done in this matter in the media. Now Kleppe says in his post that he is satisfied if the majority believes that the compensation question should be addressed later in Stortinget. One might wonder how much it takes to make some colleagues happy. The representative, Kleppe, should know that all parties are committed to their promises of compensation. If not, I find that he has not been included in the committee treatment of this setting. I register, as I said instead, that the representative Kleppe has tried to boil a thin soup on this matter, and carry it on here, too, by presenting it as if the majority would not be willing to compensate. It is with respect to report a thin soup that is cooked. It is not even possible to use a nail of what municipalities have used to invest and to build up premises in connection with this reform. Much less can be said that this soup hangs on a nail. In any case, I note that the municipalities concerned and the rapporteurs must continue to rely on the majority to implement the compensation and to implement the final settlement on this matter. There may be grounds for stressing the existence of a unanimous vote by the Control Committee. Although the Progress Party has a special comment, it does not change the fact that the only proposal available for voting today is a proposal for the Riksrevision report to be annexed to the Minutes. In other words, and I stress again: the Advance Party does not have a single crown to pay for its promises, nor does it provide a timeframe for the execution of compensation and payment. I think that the representative, Mr Kleppe, is quite free – if it is a parliamentary expression – when he demands a statement from the representative, Mr Holten, on the implementation of this compensation. Therefore, it seems more than strange that the representative Kleppe is trying to make this particular comment the very test piece on whether or not to follow the Stortingen assumption that municipalities should have full compensation for additional costs when implementing school start-ups for the 6 year olds. I have, as I said, seen in the media that the representative Kleppe for a while has had some luck selling that version on the local plane that only the Advance Party will compensate. There may therefore be reason to comment on the matter in a few words, despite the unanimous agreement of the Committee on the Riksrevisions. There is no doubt whatsoever that the Stortinget has repeatedly stressed that municipalities should have full compensation for the additional costs of implementing the 6-year reform, whether in the case of investments, operations, showers or the school leisure system, as far as this is reform-related expenditure. To the extent that there is disagreement between the municipalities and the Government, the report from, among other things, The Norwegian Research Council and the evaluation to be carried out in the Ministry, and the contact between the municipalities and the Government, provide a good starting point for the matter which will have to come to Stortinget sooner or later. I assume the Council of State will say something about it later today. Since the representative Kleppe also gave a visit directly to the Right, I just have to remind you that the Right has been one of the drivers for compensation, and I would also like to remind you that it was the Right who, through a compromise with the Workers' Party in May 1996, made a proposal that followed the assumption of full compensation for municipal investment expenditure. The right was also involved in requiring the after-calculation of the municipal reform-related investment costs resulting from the Hervik Committee’s investigation, and the case was again brought before the Stortingen in the municipal economic proposition in 1999 on the basis of the cost committee’s after-calculation. The Storting joined the Government's proposal without any special comments. I am not going to go into the Riksrevision's assessment here in addition to what is in the vote, but I would like to stress that the decision here today does not mean that there is a finish line for this matter, as the speakers from the majority have also underlined today, not least the case rapporteur. Nor is it the case that the Ministry can now look back and completely ignore the fact that there are still municipalities that believe that the assumption of full compensation has not been met. Like the rapporteur, I am thinking in particular of the joint enquiry from Oslo, Trondheim, Kristiansand and Tromsø, all of which believe that there are very well-founded demands for more money from the state. Of course, it has never been intended that the control committee should decide on this type of requirement in this case. But on behalf of the Right, I would like to stress that the assumption of full compensation is firm. Today's debate and decision make neither from nor to this clear principle, and it is the responsibility of the Ministry to ensure that municipalities which can show that they have had real non-compensated expenditure will receive it, in line with the promises made by the Stortinget. I assume that the Council of State will explain this in a moment. The municipalities should be able to rely on clear assumptions given by the Stortinget, and we in the Right are at least willing to contribute to it. I see that all the parties are, and I expect you to do it in a more obligating way than to write a note on eight lines without proposing a single penny to pay the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e324	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e328	The ‘soup’ that Ludvigsen from the Right speaks of had at least become a little more powerful had the Advance Party come along and cook it. Then there would have been some meatballs in it at least, unlike what the Right has in it. But then to the gravity of the matter. The seriousness of the matter is that it is not during the treatment we have of the Riksrevision report that we grant. It is not our responsibility either to have the financial follow-up of this, and I thought it with respect to notifying that Mr. Ludvigsen was aware of this. He has experience as a former committee leader, he's also in the presidency. But I want to show that the Advance Party has spent funds and resources annually on the Ministry of Church, Education and Research budget. When we know that there is disagreement between the municipalities, the department and the state, it's clear that we can't go into the processing of this report and give exact figures in dollars and ears on how much it should be. No, we do believe that the ministry in a dialogue with the municipalities, after reviewing the real costs to which each municipality can refer, will find the key and solution to pay out and compensate the municipalities that have paid too much of their own money for the implementation of the reform. Then it becomes a little bit hollow and a little strange when the representative Ludvigsen tries to explain the comment on eight lines from the Progress Party. But if that's how to understand – and then I'm going to give the representative Ludvigsen the right – that the majority will now promise from this pulpit, and it has done several things, that one should come back to this matter with regard to the economy of the municipalities that feel that they have not received what they are entitled to, yes, then the Progress Party is with and focuses this on and contributes to what we are concerned about, namely that not only the Progress Party is the best friend of the municipalities, but that our view can constitute a majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e335	I am fully aware of what should be, and what should not be, in such a setting. But when the representative Kleppe on behalf of the Progress Party tries to present it so that the majority would be negative to compensate for reform-related expenditure, and that the Progress Party should be more positive, it is that I react. So the Progress Party writes a note that is almost a blank mandate, criticises other parties for not having advertised more clearly than what we have done, and requires other parties to give us a time frame for it – and then the Advance Party does none of the parts itself. Then it's what I'm thinking, and then what I'm saying is that you can't really take the Progress Party seriously, the more when the representative Kleppe says in his post: "Well, now he's happy – as if the majority were supposed to have a news story here." No, we stand on what we have been doing all along, and as we have repeated in committee positions, statements and decisions in Stortinget, to compensate for the reform-related investments. It stands firmly to the right, and I have seen that the whole committee stands firm on it. We've raised no doubt about it. Anyone who has tried to question it is the Advancement Party. But a whole committee, I find now, is behind it. So the little turmoil and uncertainty that Kleppe's representative must have managed to create is at least cleared up, but it's not because we've changed our position. We have been told – and we stand by – that reform-related investments need to be compensated for. We expect that, and we expect that to come to Stortinget when the matter is well prepared, and then we have to have a different basis than what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e340	It is not the whole world to please the representative Kleppe when it goes in the right direction, and when we in the Progress Party can help the municipalities not to be deflected from this report, but that we are now working on getting the dialogue that the municipalities need in this matter. But I have a specific question for the representative Ludvigsen, and that is the mandate given to the Norwegian Research Council. My direct question is: Does the representative Ludvigsen perceive the objectives and content of the Right Research Mission in such a way that the Norwegian Research Council, which is to evaluate the pedagogical and economic aspects of this reform in a research light, can also, in the light of its evaluation, address the possible shortcomings of the economy from which the municipalities have suffered, by failing to grant what is necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e347	First I want to reserve myself against the representative Kleppes manufacturing – that from now on the matter should go in the right direction. We – and then I include the whole majority in the committee – have been moving in the same direction all along, and we are going at the same pace as we have been doing all along in getting this matter up. The municipalities deserve a thorough job. Then the Research Council report is a useful tool, NOW 1998:5, which addresses the reform 97 investment, is a useful tool, as is the contact between the Government and the municipalities on this matter. The sum of this I feel quite certain will be a position in the Storting where the majority follows up in line with what we have said, namely that expenditure related to this reform should be compensated. For me, it is important to show that municipalities can be sure that the majority of the population, through the majority of the comments that are being addressed today, will receive compensation. I have, as I said instead, expectations that the Council of State confirms that this is the Government's position as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e357	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e360	Although the Center Party is not represented in the Control and Constitutional Committee, we want to make our views known. This case has aroused a lot of anger around many municipalities, and I don't know how many meetings I've been on where this topic has been central, but there are several. The centre party was a strong driver for the state to cover the real costs of introducing Reform 97, despite the fact that we disagreed at school for 6 year olds. I recall that the Stortinget increased the allocation of investments in the process, in addition to the then government proposed. I'm not going into the real numbers here and now -- they're in Storting's protocols -- but it was actually talking about numbers in the billions class. The assumption from Stortinget was that the government would cover the real costs of the investments triggered by the 6-year reform, but when it operates on average, it is clear that it is difficult to make the right decisions for each municipality. This is also stated in the comments of the National Audit Office. Furthermore, it is worth noting the Riksrevision’s comment on the Ministry’s statement on ‘retention in the guidance work to the municipalities so that it would not have a non-intentional regulatory effect’, as expressed in the suspension. The Riksrevision states that ‘this consideration may appear to be too focused on guidance information to the municipalities’. I mean, among other things: that it should have been clarified clearly that compensation should be granted, but when nine out of 10 municipalities say that the additional costs are reform-related, there is something about reality. I believe it should have been clear that the municipalities could not perceive it so that old sins, in that sense neglect in the repair of premises, etc., could be taken into account. It is possible that it has not come out clearly enough, and that it has thus become some misconceptions. The National Audit Office considers it important to take into account the experience gained in connection with Reform 97 in future reforms involving several levels of government. This is an important reminder to the Stortinget and the departments that we have to worry about. As you know, there is also today a debate on the possibility of health reforms and the ability of municipalities to implement and meet the requirements of municipalities and county councils. Although these are not directly equal comparisons, they are essentially of the same character. The National Audit Office's finding that departments and municipalities have different opinions about what is reasonable compensation is an important reminder for all of us. And I've noticed what the Control and Constitution Committee says on page 4 of the first column at the bottom: ‘However, the Committee would point out that the need for full coverage by municipalities of the additional costs incurred by the reform has been highlighted several times in the Stortinget. In this context, the Committee shall refer to the Budgetary Section. S. No 12 and Innst. [[1995-1996]] [[1994-1995]] S. No 216 The Committee also states that it understands that municipalities have called for clearer clarification and clarification of the assumptions for the compensation model, and refers to the Cost Calculation Committee, which has published NOU 1998:5. There's the committee. Then I have noticed the special comment of the Progress Party, which in clear order says that the municipalities who can prove that they have been given too little money will get it. Yes, initially this may seem both reasonable and sympathetic, but if we were to do this in every context, by the fact that one party's proof would be sufficient to obtain compensation, then it would go beyond the widths, I'm afraid. When you also know the attitude of the Progress Party regarding transfers to the municipalities, I have to say that this remark does not have the credibility of me that it may seem in the first place. The Norwegian Research Council has been entrusted with the task of evaluating the work on Reform 97. I myself was at the introduction conference for this a month ago. Here, too, the economic issues need to be addressed. We'll have this case dealt with here in the Grand Duchy later, as regards both the content of the reform and the economic aspect, because there are actually two sides to the same issue. All those who know the school world know that economics and physical conditions are crucial for the overall learning environment. That is why it is good that the Research Council has been given such a broad mandate, and if the result that emerges there shows that Storing and the Department have not done their job in relation to the municipalities, it will be a round we have to take when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e384	I only have a few brief comments on the tame of this debate. It is primarily a challenge for the representative, Mr Kleppe, to withdraw as soon as possible the characteristics he gives the majority of the committee. There is extremely poor drag for those municipalities that are now in conflict with the state about what kind of understanding underlies what is to be directly covered as additional expenditure related to the reform, and not. If the representative Kleppe believes that through this post and through the characterisation of the majority in this case, he is of any help for the Kristiansand municipality or any other municipality, the representative Kleppe is completely wrong. On the contrary, the challenge should be to withdraw, for example: the type of language used by the majority of committees to make ‘kneefall’ for the department, etc. It is simply such that those who are working and struggling with this in the municipality of Kristiansand or elsewhere should cry for Kleppes articles. The issue is – it has a story – that this has been a battle cause in Stortinget in many crossroads. The majority of the population have been concerned that local government expenditure on Reform 97 should be compensated, and one in many different contexts has the power to obtain a majority for this precisely because it is linked to additional expenditure on Reform 97. Many municipalities have neglected their investments and spending on school for many years, and of course it is not necessarily that they sneak in Reform 97 expenditure under that hat, but it has triggered a greater interest in schooling in many municipalities. If there was to be any possibility for the Storting to have a majority in order for the State to compensate, it was necessary to stick to the additional expenditure related to Reform 97. The majority of the committee is committed to this. The magnificent representative who wants to help a single municipality in this matter must therefore read this sentence aloud in the morning, noon and evening: ‘However, the Committee would point out that the need for the municipalities to have full coverage of the additional expenditure resulting from the reform has been highlighted several times in the Stortinget.’ It's the essential sentence of the municipalities that run and labor with this. This case is not finished in this round. Several speakers have come up with that. On the other hand, SV has been concerned with these budgetary issues, such as: Last year's budget of the municipal committee, and in the context of the municipal economic proposal, and we have had views on it in relation to how it should be cleaned up afterwards. From our point of view, we are going to follow this matter closely, but I would point out that the Committee is unanimous both in terms of the proposal that is to be voted on here today, namely that the document is annexed to the protocol, and in terms of what is to be done in relation to the further evaluation of the reform. With regard to the comment of the Progress Party, I strongly disagree with the representative from the Right. It's not a note that cancels out with the municipalities. This is a note that does not help anything, because it does not clarify what is the issue of conflict between the municipalities and the ministry, which is what there is of additional expenditure related to Reform 97. Here the Progress Party has contributed nothing but trouble for the municipalities that are struggling with this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e405	Both the rapporteur and the last speaker have focused on what is at the heart of the matter, namely that the compensation is about the additional costs of Reform 97, i.e. the inclusion of an additional coal class in terms of investment. It is also clear from the case that an aggregate increase, as far as I can see, and the ministry has had a complete overall view of how to proceed in order to exercise target management within a management system that is otherwise based on a financial framework. That is clearly described. It is also clearly described that people have tried to understand and identify costs, including: in a NOW that came in 1998. The Committee then refers to something that I can elaborate on, namely the mission of the Norwegian Research Council, where the Research Council will primarily look at the impact of the reform on pedagogics. However, if you look at the impact of such a reform on education, you will also gain insight into the elements of economics. You can't go into a pedagogical evaluation without, to put it literally, going into the individual classrooms. You have to have that kind of insight. I will quote from the letter of assignment received by the Research Council: ‘In the context of Reform 97, the central level, the size and the government, have adopted a number of governance instruments aimed at primary school. In this context, particularly interesting instruments are: economic instruments; The research evaluation should include the importance and impact of the instruments on the implementation and implementation of the reform. The role and importance of the different levels of government and of each school for the implementation of the reform should also be highlighted.’ It goes on to say: ‘Examples of current longer-term issues may be: How has the provision of funding affected the preparation and implementation of the reform by municipalities?To what extent has the use of the instrument contributed to efficient resource use and adaptation in municipalities?’ So that means that the Research Council's mission will be to provide further facts to identify the sizes that are at the heart of the debate, namely how good it has been to identify the pages related to Reform 97, and to try to distinguish them from the pages that the last representative of the Halvorsen talked about, and that is about other issues, what the school should be doing for various reasons, what it has been debated about in the Stortinget, etc. I can assure you that the Department will of course assess the knowledge resulting from this evaluation and make sure that the Storting is familiar with the outcome of the assessment in an appropriate manner and as soon as possible. That is what has been the procedure in this case, and that is what must continue to be the procedure in the case. No one has earned anything but to get the best possible insight and then act on the basis of that insight. I see no contrast, for my part, between what is expressed by the majority of committees and what has been the position of the ministry on this point. That is what I intend to say in this debate on behalf of the Lilletun Council.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e437	I think the Council of State's articles are quite comprehensive of what a committee initially meant, and I think it is very clear that the Council of State of the European Union is also clarifying what is in the mandate for the evaluation that the Norwegian Research Council is now carrying out. I can assure you, on behalf of the majority, that we are responding to the outcome of this evaluation, and that of course it must also be clarifying. I fully agree with what the Council of State says, that of course there must be a clear starting point, also for the Storting, to get a full understanding of what the evaluation will be. I would also like to stress, on behalf of the majority of the committee, that the Stortinget has also explained on a number of occasions, as the Council of State also pointed out, what is actually reform-related costs, to which the Riksrevision also agrees. That, I think, is a very important point in this debate. Thus, as the Progress Party really wants, one cannot now leave the individual municipality itself to define what is reform-related costs. As I said, the evaluation that is now taking place, also on the basis of what has previously been agreed several times, we expect – at least on the part of the majority – to be properly presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e446	I note that the Progress Party has established its role as the largest and best defender of the school and the best friend of the municipalities. It shows this discussion and the debate. Because when the Progress Party has addressed the Department to ask for the job that the Norwegian Research Council should do in the light of the decisions taken, we have received the message back, based on the mandate given, that it was not natural for the evaluation of the Norwegian Research Council to result in financial compensation for each municipality, but that the educational aspects of the reform should be researched. It's something else. That's why I'm happy. The fact that we have focused on this matter gives hope to the many municipalities that have spent money and invested in Reform 97, which have taken up loans, spins and savings, cut out other legal measures to cover that reform and its implementation in confidence that the state would grant funds. In view of the discussion, the debate we have had today and the clarification by the majority, one can now, at least in the long term, count on the last words not being said in terms of financial compensation. Otherwise, I just have to say that with regard to funds allocated in individual budgets through to this reform, the Progress Party has the best conscience in that regard. We have granted financial compensation in the individual budgets where it belongs, much more than both the Right Party and the School Party SV have done. We have followed up with the municipalities, as we always do when the Storting adopts new reforms, whether in the health and social sector, in the school sector or in other sectors. So it's a big victory today for the Progress Party because the municipalities can now receive financial compensation when they demonstrate the real costs of implementing the reform. Without this being put into focus, I am afraid that the department, which has also had a view on this matter that has not been entirely in line with the large number of people who have adopted it, would be able to protect itself by saying that what was to be done in this case was research-oriented to illustrate it. It had not given five flat ears to the municipalities. But today's debate shows that in the future the municipalities can get money, and we are pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e455	I believe that the municipalities that now have a particular interest in following in this debate should note the following – in so far as a quite thousand turnaround operation by the representative Vidar Kleppe at the end: from a broad order to believe that the committee majority has made a ‘kneefall’ for the department, to sum up that the Progress Party is well pleased to have put this matter in focus. The only thing the municipalities have served in this case is what the majority say is that ‘the municipalities should have full coverage of the additional expenditure incurred by the reform’. It is the only thing that can help the municipalities in the long term in this case. Although not the representative Kleppe says it right out, it is really what he is doing in his last post, says that the kind of language used as a kneecap and all sorts of things, in which the municipalities have no help, he has withdrawn. He is well pleased not to promote any other proposal in the matter. It's important for the municipalities to notice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e463	I just felt the need to link some brief remarks to what I perceived as two obvious misunderstandings from the representative Kleppe. First, he says that the Progress Party is the best friend of the schools and municipalities. Then I remember that friendship requires two parties. The second is that he says that it is a great victory for the Progress Party what we have been discussing here today. If someone has won, it must be the public information, since the Progress Party has now understood what we've meant all along, and what we've written in the notes. So the people's information is the winner, no one else.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e470	Vidar Kleppe has had the word twice, and gets the word for a short remark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e473	I understand that both Mrs. Halvorsen and Mr. Ludvigsen has a bad conscience in this matter. It's a fact based on the given assumptions. I do not believe either Mrs Halvorsen or Mr. Halvorsen. The Ludvigsen has seen the objectives and content of the research mission. That's what we've had as a basis. When we turn to the Department and get the answer that there is a research lighting to be done when the Norwegian Research Council is reviewing the reform, it is clear that we have to carry this to the square. Then we have to take on that job. From the beginning, which was so bad as it was, that this could be put in a drawer, and that the municipalities had not got five more ears, we are satisfied that it has now at least been clarified by the majority that it has never been meant to be. Of course, it has been intended that municipalities should cover every penny they have spent on implementing this state reform.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e481	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 863]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e495	I will just briefly mention two issues related to this document. Firstly, the Committee has chosen to focus on the regulations laid down by the Council of State in its review of the State Council's protocols. It goes without saying that it's impossible for the committee to go through all the regulations and check if they're allowed to get the design they've been given. But of course we have the opportunity to carry out random checks, and therefore the work of the control committee will be carried out at a level which is necessary to check certain regulations and, if there are no errors in individual cases, in particular, to make sure that the rest is okay. This must be the case when the Storting is to carry out its control activities in this field. However, there is reason to stress that we feel quite confident that the administration does not abuse the Institute in being able to make regulations in accordance with the laws adopted by the Stortinge. Another thing that we want to make aware of in connection with the setting, and which I am asking the Council of State to bear in mind, is that we have noticed that there are several issues regarding refusal of transparency in various public documents. I see that the Council of State has no particular desire to follow, but we hope that the written record will provide him with the information he needs to pass it on to the colleagues of the Council of State were in an earnest conversation with one of the representatives. However, the Committee has underlined the need for more transparency in administration, and it does not appear that the various members of the government take this seriously. There is little point in talking widely in the public sphere about wanting to publish the documents dealt with in public agencies if you are not willing to do anything about it. According to a political desire, the Public Relations Act has a principle of more openness, and I believe that the best way to meet the public ambitions is for individual governments to instruct their bureaucracy to use the principle of more publicity. With this I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e511	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 863]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e525	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Centre Party 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 10 minutes and the representative Steinar Bastesen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines of response following the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and following contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e536	The main figures have already been established in the financial debate the week before the justice debate. This means that the budget procedure in Stortinget will have a slightly new form, and it also gives us the opportunity in the justice debate to concentrate on the main lines of justice policy for the next year. Perhaps the most important job of the Justice Committee will be to try to get a majority for some important policy areas, where we provide leadership for the executive, the ministry of the Minister of Justice. This year, the Justice Committee has concentrated on how to get a faster response to criminal behaviour. The general prevention effect of penalties depends on the risk of detection as much as on the rapid response and the level of penalties. We have said from the Justice Committee that the level of punishment in Norway is generally low and that it is important to adjust it somewhat. However, it is equally important to ensure a higher percentage of clearance in case of increased risk of detection, and to initiate a much faster response than is the case today. We say in the setting: ‘It is an objective that no case shall wait more than 3 months before the courts, whether it be the waiting time at the court or the court of law.’ This requires judicial management, it requires effective redress procedures, it requires close follow-up of defence lawyers, and it will be the most important instrument to bring down custody days in Norway. We also say that the time between the notification and the prosecution authority sends the case to the courts must be shortened. Today, this takes 200 days for resolved matters. That norm should come down to the same 90 days that we set as the norm in the courts. We are aware that some police districts have a very long trial period. We've got detailed statistics, and we're going to use the statistics in the years to come. Some of these police districts need to change their way of following criminal acts, but there are also a good number of police districts that need more funding. They clearly have too low a manning factor relative to the number of cases, and it has to do with people moving on, but the structure of Police Norway hasn't moved on as fast. We also know that it may take an undue amount of time from the judgment to the judgment being served on the defendant. It gives you a delay in how fast you can get a zone. We must ensure that a execution order is given as soon as the judgment is enforceable. We clearly see that the time from conviction to criminal custody of the case has to go down, and we will measure the time spent. And the time that the convicted one waits in criminal custody before he gets into atonement must go down, and the time must be measured. If there was something that the committee was reminded of and taught in New York, then it was that quick reaction is as important as a sufficiently strict response, and that it must characterize the means we put into the justice sector. We also see that in the case of youth, it is particularly important to respond quickly, and it is important to react before they hit the criminal lavalier. That is why I am very excited about the outcome of the investigation carried out by the Justice Committee on the Ministry, to come back with a case on, among other things. criminal sanctions for people under the criminal lavalry. It is essential to be able to react early. Another theme on which the Judicial Committee is unanimous is the need to look at the practice of professional secrecy. We must not experience that different public agencies do not talk together because they cover themselves under the confidentiality rules. If we are to do something for the individual, different disciplines need to talk to each other dryly in order to arrive at a concrete action plan for the individual child concerned. There are different number suggestions from the different parties. I thoroughly reviewed the Right's Alternative Justice Budget last week during the second day of the financial debate. We transfer money from other departments and distribute more of the funds to the criminal justice chain. Because if we are to be able to do something for effective follow-up at all stages, there must also be sufficient resources and sufficient means of operation, not least, for the police.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e565	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e568	I am pleased that the chairman of the Committee took note of all the areas agreed in the Committee on the fight against crime, whether it be violent or recurrent. I also noticed that she put on a completely different tone today than she did last week during the financial debate, which she herself mentioned in conclusion. I want to grasp what was said last week. As far as the police are concerned, the proposal now being made by the Labour Party and the Centre Parties means a strengthening and a real increase in relation to what we adopted last autumn, and what happened during the revised national budget last year. The Labour Party wants a strong police force. We have also made this clear with the majority comment in the position, which is that we will also ensure the large student school that comes out next year from the Police College, work in the establishment. Right seemed to be well pleased last year. But during the financial debate, Kristin Krohn Devold expressed great concern at the weakening of the police budget. Does the strengthening that actually happens this year mean that one wasn't so satisfied last year? Another point concerns the primary approach to the budget of the Right, where there is also a tendency to weaken some welfare services in society elsewhere. I'm worried about the whole thing. Therefore, the next question to Kristin Krohn Devold is whether she does not see the link between welfare systems and Community services and a safe society in providing a basis for preventing crime. Doesn't Kristin Krohn Devold see this context?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e579	Thank you for the questions. First to the police budget. Yes, it is right that the Right Party and the Advance Party got a reinforcement of the police budget last year. We thought it would be enough to increase the variable operation of the police, the one they can use when they go out and act on concrete criminal acts. It turned out, when you got the rain over and over, among other things. Adjusted for expenditure under the Schengen Agreement, the police lacked 50 million. kr in operational funds to maintain the variable operating budget from the previous year. That's what the police showed. This meant that both the Right Party and the Advance Party last year were willing to grant 50 new million, which we proposed in May, and on which we were voted down from the other parties. The budget presented this year goes on with what was in there last year. That is, there is no adjustment of the variable revenue in the police, as we would have liked, and there is a significant item on Schengen – an agreement has all been agreed that we should have, but that does not mean an excess of revenue, or that the police can use to carry out active police work. I cannot understand that there should be any major disagreement about the fact, as even the Minister of Justice has repeatedly stressed, that police operating budgets are under pressure. The Minister of Justice has admitted that. Just because the committee is so active in the efficiency of the entire criminal case, we will also provide 100 million. kr so that they can take effect from it by being able to have a variable operating budget that allows for activity. On the other issue of welfare services, I would just like to say that the most important prevention measures are in the family and in school. In both of these areas, the Right Alternative Budget has a very, very broad budget and, in general, an increase in relation to what is on the part of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e590	Would Kristin Krohn Devold, head of the committee, make suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e593	Thanks for the reminder. Of course, I take the opportunity to take up the suggestions from the Right and from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e598	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e601	I concluded last year with my introduction in a similar debate on the Justice Budget by stressing the attitudes and solutions that bring together broad political ups and downs. I think that in itself helps to create security for people most and credibility among politicians. Policies often consist of pure-breding contradictions. Of course, there are differences of opinion, but it is expected – and I believe we politicians here have a responsibility – that one will find the unifying solutions that deliver results in the work against crime and for a safer society. As last year, it is my opinion that the Committee on Legal Affairs' position places this emphasis on this. Yes, that's the main impression – if one then ignores the little cape fight between the Right and the Advance Party to show the biggest increases in their alternative. In the fight against crime, causes and instruments are complex and require politicians to move under headings and symbolism policies. There are no simple solutions. I am pleased that the Committee sets out two main strategies: prevention and response. The search light must be focused on both the individual's responsibilities for his/her own actions and those of society that have an impact on the development of crime. It goes without saying that this cannot be solved in the justice sector alone. The strategy of the Labour Party is therefore a comprehensive policy, with work for all, social protection and justice at the heart of it. It prevents and dampens social and ethnic contradictions, crime and violence. A good breeding environment for children and young people is also a good criminal policy — in fact, central — to prevent a criminal career. We need a reinforced effort for children and young people in the risk zone, in interactions between home, school, volunteers, child protection, police and other public agencies. Limits shall be set and responded to unacceptable behaviour. The Labour Party believes that closer and more committed cooperation between the relevant agencies is necessary in early efforts towards vulnerable children and young people. We have to break the boundaries. In the committee setting, we have pointed out that professional secrecy should not be an obstacle to providing children with the necessary help. Forced action and responses to serious behavioural problems should be introduced earlier than current legislation provides for. I look forward with interest to the Government's proposal for an action plan to combat crime among children and young people. There is a close link between the practice of criminal acts and the use of drugs. Therefore, the fight against crime cannot be distinguished from the work against drug abuse and, not less important, the supply of drugs to drug users. On the other hand, bad living conditions never have to be an excuse to hurt others. We have as our starting point that crime and violence are unacceptable and must be responded to quickly. There's a lot of work done here. The Labour Party believes that a comprehensive policy must be taken into account in the justice sector as well. We need improvements in every aspect, from police and investigation through the courts to the criminal justice system. Here it is not just about more resources, but also about organisation and routines. In this context, the Committee has underlined in detail the need for performance measurement in the various departments, on the basis of an objective of faster case-by-case resolution. Bottlenecks must be identified and responsibilities placed. More rapid criminal proceedings are also important in order to reduce the need for detention. One has been criticising the practice of letter and visitation control or ban and the length of the maintenance period for some cases over a longer period – and I think it is right to do so. I believe it is now time to discuss in Stortinget the use of care in its entirety, in the light of, among other things. Report of the Council of Europe torture monitoring committee. Combating and responding to violent crime still has to be one of the highest priority areas in the criminal justice chain. I want to bring forth here violence against women and sexualized violence, forms of assault that, unfortunately, have for too long received little attention. An action plan is good and will, hopefully, also contribute to changing attitudes and focus. Police figures show that violence in private homes is the largest group of reported violence cases. We know that there are great numbers of darkness. This can also be linked to cases of assault against women with different ethnic backgrounds. Crisis centres are experiencing alarming increases in the number of immigrant women seeking shelter and help. In a preventive perspective, we're going to include numbers that show that 90 pst. by young people who have been registered as perpetrators of violence, have themselves witnessed or have been subjected to domestic violence. Both sexual assault and other domestic violence can be difficult to document, investigate and lead to justice. As rape reports increase, the number of cases resulting in prosecution and correction decreases. In view of the nature of the rape cases and the consideration given to the victim, the Workers' Party considers that it should be particularly relevant to consider time limits in this field as regards the time between the notification and until the case is brought before the courts, corresponding to the procedure of appeal in Sweden. This reminds me of the serious development of organized crime in neo-Nazist environments and in MC environments in our neighbouring country, environments that use threats and criminal acts to paralyze the judicial system. This should be kept in mind, even if such environments have not gained an equivalent level in Norway. But we see trends. It underlines the need to have a functioning monitoring police force, the need to ensure methods and international cooperation, and the need to meet this challenge in terms of the protection of witnesses and persons in the criminal chain. The fact that I have not mentioned the budget so far is not because I want to avoid liability. On the contrary, I believe that the draft budget by the Government and the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government's parties represent a further commitment to the justice sector. Those who characterise the framework as irresponsiblely low contribute, at the same time, a strong self-criticism regarding the current year's budget and the compromise from last autumn. In the distribution within the justice sector, we have said in the past that we could initially wish for more in the field of criminal justice, especially because an overall increase after the treatment of last autumn's criminal health report had ambitions. However, through adjustments, we have ensured, inter alia, that: the operation of criminal services has been somewhat strengthened. When the new criminal law comes into place next year, we have to fill it with activity and content. It requires staff and money. Criminal care is important primarily for people’s needs for security, law and order, but also for the lawbreaker. Prisoners shall at any time return to society. Today, new crime is the likely result for most people. The position of police and officers has a very important role to play in combating crime and has, therefore, received — and receives — significant increases in appropriations in recent years. Particular attention has been paid to the opportunities for newly educated students from the Police College. With today's unanimous committee position, all newly educated police students in 2000 can look forward to a job on the floor. Oslo police districts have special challenges in combating crime. I am pleased that the Oslo Police have secured increased funds for their work. Once this police district is separated as its own budget line, we will again call for clarification of the cost needs of the special metropolitan tasks of the Oslo Police. In this context, however, I would also like to stress that several cities and urban areas record some of the same crime trends as the capital – a situation that needs to be addressed in the internal allocation of resources. At the same time, I would like to reiterate the fact that the police and lingerie seat should be visible and accessible in the vicinity. We need to ensure a decentralised police and operational services integrated into the community. The further development and efficiency of the police and officers’ seat must have as an important objective the release of resources to strengthen the outlying and direct crime-fighting activities. In the census, we expressed a desire for crime policy into a new century — the victim in the center. Fortunately, most people are not exposed to criminal acts, but to those who become, it is a tragedy, and it creates uncertainty for many more. We should take seriously the fear that many people have – justified or not – of becoming victims of crime. All work and action directed against violence and crime must be done in depth to protect and support the victims, or to avoid anyone becoming a victim of abuse against his own person or property. I'm looking for a common political objective here. The victim in the centre means strengthening the assistance, support and compensation system for the victims. The victim in the centre means more attention in the judicial system and that faster procedures are important. The victim in the center means to make a greater effort where the problem is greatest, for example, as I have mentioned, by violence related to the private sphere. The victim in the center means that we focus more on relationships that contribute to the development of crime in order to increase security and avoid anyone becoming a victim. In short, the victim in the centre underlines that we need to focus on the whole of crime policy. Then I am back at the starting point: the position of the Justice Committee, which expresses common objectives and broad political agreement. That is the best starting point for us to succeed in combating crime and ensuring the security of our welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e647	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e651	The Labour Party, as it is known, enters into budgetary settlements in order to provide security for most people. I hanged myself in the expression of Bjørnstad: 'Most people'. Now it's like the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Parties, is setting up schemes that aren't for the most people. They contribute to the establishment of specific bodies for the care of asylum seekers and non-residents seeking residence in the country on a so-called humanitarian basis. [[Stang]] The lots set up a complaint panel for non-residents with a preliminary cost framework of 30 million. kr in the year 2000. The government parties and the Labour Party will force Norwegian municipalities to receive 8 000 refugees next year, an increase of 1000 from this year. Can Bjørnstad tell the Norwegian people – and especially the Labour Party voters – how far you want to go in their priorities in these areas? And what's going to happen at the expense of? It is likely that the elderly, sick and nursing people in the country will have to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e660	This could have been the basis for an entire day's debate, and I will not be able to answer it in a reply. We know that there are great differences between the majority of the Grand Duchy and the Progress Party in taking responsibility for refugees, asylum seekers and those who are fleeing from persecution with a risk of their own lives. There is no disagreement between us and the Government and the authorities as to how to take responsibility for those who come to Norway as refugees and asylum seekers, and how to treat those who are actually real asylum seekers for possible stay because of persecution, or it may be cases of humanitarian stay because of children. In terms of the number, there's something we can never determine in advance, because we know that the situation is changing. In the spring we received, among other things. a good deal of Kosovar Albanians because of the war situation in their country. We think it was right, but it's clear that it puts our management apparatus on a strong test. And we have had critical remarks on how the Government manages and coordinates efforts to deal with asylum applications and ensure that a sheep for effective integration into the community. With regard to the issue of complaints, we believe that it is established primarily to strengthen legal certainty and avoid the political handling of individual applications.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e669	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e672	In the middle of the election campaign this summer, the Minister of Justice leaked the figures for the 2000 police budget. Under the heading war against Crime he could tell about 137 million. kr extra to 275 new police posts. I suppose the electors rejoiced, and Kristin Krohn Devold said at least pleased. However, the 275 new jobs prove not to be new jobs, but the means to pay for the police college students who got a job in 1999 – i.e. already existing jobs. They must, of course, be paid in the year 2000. It turns out that the Minister of Justice had led the voters behind the light through a partially managed and inaccurate budgetary leakage in the hope of securing some extra voters to his party. Instead of 275 new posts, the draft budget contained only 100 new posts, all earmarked for follow-up to the Schengen Agreement. In addition, 47 posts were transferred from the surveillance police to regular police work. Of course, a weakening of the surveillance police force is not a strengthening of the police. For the second year in a row, the Bondevik government put forward a police budget without understanding that a country that experiences foreign gangs press people for money, that shops, kiosks, private individuals and banks are running almost daily, that one third of the population in Oslo says they have experienced burglary or theft, that the police do not stand up to protect people who are exposed to threats, and that some statesmen's offices have a standing order not to move out after 1 p.m. 16 without risk to life and health, simply need more police posts. It takes an average of 200 days for a case to be filed, until the prosecution authority decides whether an action is to be brought. It is several months before the case is brought before a court, and it is almost three months after a judgment has been given, until the judge can begin the settlement. Meanwhile, deadly people go out on the streets and are a threat to their surroundings; rapists rape again while waiting for atonement. Today, people are without protection. Honorable businessmen are threatened with life without the police being able to set up, as this story, which I'm going to use the rest of the post to go through, illustrates. Tuesday, the phone at the office called one of my coworkers. A businessman from his home country told us that he had built a cabin through a construction company in Oslo and paid NOK 170 000. Some time later, an additional invoice of 350,000 kroner came, which he refused to pay, and he sent the matter over to his lawyer. After a while, a torpedo called me and told me that he had to pay if he wanted to keep his life. It was told on the phone that his wife and two minor children too were in danger of death. The businessman decided to arrange a meeting at a hotel in Oslo – at 5 p.m. 16 Tuesday, three days ago. The local police asked the Oslo police to be present at the hotel. However, the first feedback from this request was so unclear that the businessman chose to stay at home. He notified the local police for protection – because the torpedoes wanted to discover that he was missing from the agreement, he was of course afraid. The local police said that they could not allocate resources to protect the businessman and his family, but instead tried to persuade the Oslo police to at least send Spaniards to the hotel to map the torpedoes. The Oslo police said no – an hour and a half in advance was too short for necessary planning. My colleague, Torbjørn Andersen, also contacted the Oslo police to ask for help. The top management was impossible to get hold of – they were at a seminar. However, he spoke to an official, who took note of the matter. But nothing happened, the Oslo police didn't meet up. However, this was done by the magnification representative. He observed that a Mercedes with the same registration number as the car that was seen outside the businessman's house earlier, and that belonged to a Yugoslav restaurant owner, stopped outside the hotel a few minutes before the agreed time. The three Yugoslavians in the car had contact with two Yugoslavians in a BMW that stopped in front of the Mercedes. The Yugoslavs went into the hotel and came right after, after obviously observing that the businessman was not in place. Then, exactly at 0:00 p.m. 16, called the businessman's phone at home. He was told that there would be five people after him, and that he was in danger again. In addition, he was told that these torpedoes until now had taken care of 125 cases, and that 95 pst. Of them was solved. So it's the Norwegian reality of the day. 100 businessmen have been forced to give away money because of threats to themselves and their families – without dare to warn the police – just to this one gang. The local police still could not give priority to watchkeeping; the Oslo police could not prioritize the screening or attack of the torpedoes. The businessman and his family had to be covered. On Wednesday the expected torpedoes appeared in the businessman's municipality in the same car as the day before was observed by my colleague outside the hotel in Oslo. All in all, this happened in the ordinary hours of the police. They were arrested after an effective action from the local police chamber. Three of the four arrested appear to be impossible to obtain custody. They have been released and have repeated threats to the businessman according to today's Agderpost number. The fourth was sentenced in September to six months for detention and gross violence. He should have been in prison at the moment, but the police have not got hold of him to announce the verdict. The result is that the businessman is still in contact with his family. Other employees of the company are ill-appointed. In order to help this family and the employees of the company return to a fairly normal life, the police should have watchkeeping outside the company and the dwelling continuously for a period of time to come. Of course, this is not possible within the budget framework of the police chamber. I therefore expect the Minister of Justice to contact this Chamber of Police later today and make it clear that the necessary funds will be made available so that these people can get the help they need and that, if necessary, officials from other police districts can be redispatched. So what does this story tell us? Firstly, it tells us that we are facing a far tougher crime today than a few years ago, with people from the former Yugoslavia as central actors, then that police districts have too little funds for overtime and therefore cannot offer the public the security they should be entitled to. Maybe it also tells a little bit about the Oslo police's ability and willingness to set up on short notice when something happens. In this situation, with such lawless conditions in our country, where the police cannot protect people adequately, the Bondevik government is unwilling to bet on the perhaps all the most important sector for which the public is responsible. At the same time, billions of dollars are sent out of Norway. Both last year and this year, the bulk of the population has had to intervene to prevent a disaster for the police, and thus for the public. Last year, the Right Party and the Advance Party forced the Government to allocate 100 million. more than originally proposed by the Government and to provide sufficient money for the revision of the budget to ensure the employment of all graduates of the Police College. This year, a unanimous Justice Department has clarified that we expect the same thing to happen. All leaving students must have a job. Of course, the money should have been allocated to everyone in the budget. This would make planning easier, the distribution of posts would be clear in the past and the new posts could start before. In any case, the police budget is too low. More jobs are needed to increase investigation capacity and prevent crime through a visible presence in the centre of major cities and in front of the homes of people at risk of life. In addition, operational means are needed to allow the police and the army seat to set up when something happens, even after 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox New cars are needed, and in some districts, such as Sunbathing, there is also a need for a police boat. The Progress Party proposes an increase of 270 million in the financial position. kr to the police in relation to the Government’s proposal, including 40 million. kr extra to Oslo Police District, which should enable the Oslo Police in the future to send some men on missions when people ask for it. Even within the irresponsiblely low frameworks already adopted by the majority of the population, the Progress Party has found room to propose an increase to the police, courts and criminal justice of a total of 183.3 million. kr, which is more than the addition, for example, the Right proposed in the financial position. It tells a lot about how the different parties prioritize. The fight against crime is the main cause of the war in the Progress Party. It is regrettable that the other parties still do not see the seriousness. Finally, I would like to put forward the proposal of the Progress Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e716	Jan Simonsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e721	In a known way, the representative Simonsen has once again stated that he believes that the justice budget is irresponsible, and that our police are inadequate. But what is this year's submitted budget for justice? Well, that's the last year's budget plus 7.7 pst.Oh, my God! And as you know, the Progress Party was behind last year's budget. They voted for it. They secured it by a majority in this Chamber. Then it must mean that the Progress Party was even more irresponsible last year than the Labour Party and the government parties are this year, because we are now spending even more money than the Progress Party voted for in this Chamber last year. But the Progress Party follows the usual auctioning principle – that's what they're doing in the justice sector. They take it at all times the government's proposal, add the Right proposal to the supplement, and then they add on their own. It repeats itself every year anyway. And the little thing they add to, where do they take it from? Well, this year they'll take it, for example. from youth action in the big cities, which was supposed to catch up with youth entering youth, they take it from language training to minorities, who need to be able to integrate Norwegian languages, they take it from the crime victims’ auxiliaries, they take it from the municipalities, who are to help the same, and they take it from labour market measures, which are to ensure that people come to work instead of slipping out on the slope. Did anyone say irresponsible? Has it ever occurred to Jan Simonsen and the Progress Party that it is possible to try to prevent crime instead of coming continuously after it, that it is possible to prevent it? It will be much cheaper for society, but in addition it will also save a lot of people for very great suffering.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e733	Of course, the progress party was not satisfied with last year's police budget. These included: This is why a proposal for additional appropriations was made later in the year. Last year, too, the Progress Party had significant increases in relation to the government’s original proposals of several hundred million dollars to the police and new police positions. Our proposal was voted down in the financial debate. Of course, we had to vote on the second best proposal, and that was the amended proposal by the three government parties, which, after all, was 100 million. better on the police budget than on the proposal of the Workers' Party. That's what happened last year. This year's budget is too poor. As a percentage, there appears to be a significant increase, but much of this is earmarked for the implementation of the Schengen Agreement, which was initially opposed by the government parties, and the remainder is for increased remuneration for existing police posts adopted in the revised budget last year. School-time arrangements may make sense for parents who want to place their children at one o’clock. 8 and pick them up when they go home from work at 8:00 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox It is well possible that youth clubs can be pleasant places of residence for young people. However, there is no doubt that the most targeted instruments to prevent crime are the criminal policy instruments. When we strengthen the police, it's not just for the police to take criminals in retrospect. It's also to make it difficult for young people to slip into a criminal racetrack.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e744	I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the representative, Jan Simonsen. I think he made a very good post. He pointed out something that is right, namely how the year's budget allocation to the police comes about, simply by including the additional posts negotiated by the Right and the Advance Party in the budget agreement last year. Then Simonsen pointed out something important that all parties should listen to, including the Workers' Party. He pointed to the increasing tendency to use threats against ordinary, law-abiding citizens. We already know that there is a growing trend towards the use of serious threats, including against policemen and their children. Then I would not recommend going into the throat of a representative because he happens to come from the Progress Party, but then we should listen to the description of the problem, and then we should focus on finding solutions. The Judicial Committee asked last year, also as a consequence of the budgetary agreement of the Government with the Right and the Advance Party, that a separate case of anonymous witnesses be submitted, for increased protection of witnesses and victims. We know it's coming. And my question to the representative Simonsen in that context is: can the representative Simonsen promise that the Progress Party will then have an equally sober line that Jan Simonsen had in his speech today, so that we can concentrate on bringing together good majority solutions to do something, instead of the alternative that the Progress Party has occasionally chosen, namely demonstration solutions that do not lead anywhere?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e753	I would like to thank you for the constructive line. Of course, the proposals of the Progress Party in Stortinget are not intended to be demonstration proposals in any area. We are making proposals that we are quite sure will reduce crime if they are adopted, and therefore we have the hope that other parties will join. But even though our proposals are not always adopted, it is true that the Committee is bringing together some sort of solution that is in the same direction and that is an improvement in relation to the current situation, and of course I will be very happy if that happens on later occasions too. With regard to the issue of these threats that I mentioned in my speech – I hope the Minister of Justice noticed my wish that he should contact the Grimstad Police Chamber and help us to provide sufficient vigilance for this family – it also illustrates a number of other things where the Committee has been gathered. For example, the Agderpost today writes that the one person who was held in custody was sentenced in September to serious bodily damage under particularly aggravating circumstances and attempted detention. But then the paper says that despite the fact that the sentence is three months old, the Oslo police have not been able to give it to the man. The Committee has a unanimous remark that the judgment shall begin to apply from the date of its decision, so that the police do not run around and search for people to give notice of a judgment. I think it will be a very important step in the right direction if you get the necessary legislative changes in this area. But personally – also because the Party of Advancement goes further, that is correct – I believe that a person who receives a judgment should be immediately put in custody, and then, when the judgment is enforceable, transferred to a general settlement, so that one does not have the opportunity to hide in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e764	I can very much agree with the committee's chairman's compliment to the representative Simonsen. It was quite a tidy and – to the Progress Party to be in this kind of debate – he made a sobering speech. To the exchange of lines between Jan Simonsen and Kristin Krohn Devold, I just want to say that I take it as a matter of course that the police will fight Mafia business. So more directly to what's the main theme of the line. In the committee setting on page 21, it says: ‘The majority’ — all except the members of the Progress Party — ‘will once again point to the challenge of recruiting officials with a multicultural background to the establishment, and will ask for concrete plans and actions already implemented to be presented in the 2001 State budget’.» In connection with the budget debate last year, I challenged the representative Simonsen just in relation to the same issue that the majority here gives a positive argument. I asked the representative Simonsen if that would not be right and would give a better qualified police force if you also got more people with a foreign cultural background into the police. As far as I understood the answer last year, the representative Simonsen gave a very positive response – and I would like to add: surprisingly joyful and positive – to the question I raised then, just enough with the clarification that you did not want a quota scheme. There is nothing in the majority comment here on quotas. I therefore challenge the representative Simonsen to tell me what it is that makes him have a less positive attitude this year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e779	Yes, I remember very well the question from the representative Hove last year. I think the wording used by the majority went a bit far in asking for special types of measures, and that's why I couldn't possibly accept it. But my vision is the same as I expressed last year. With so much crime committed by people with a foreign background, it is useful for the police to have some police officers with special knowledge of their way of thinking about and about the culture they come from. In my opinion, this can be achieved in the following way: the police have a special way of engaging students. At the end of the day, it will be decided through an interview. The personal qualifications and qualities and personal background of each applicant are then assessed and an overall assessment of the applicant is made. In such an overall assessment, it seems positive to me that the applicant has a background that makes him master a language that other applicants do not master, and that he has special insight into an environment in which other applicants do not have specific insights. In this way, more people with a remote cultural background can be recruited without introducing any quota arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e788	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e791	One of the prisoners in Norwegian prison I've talked to several times lately is a 19-year-old. He was now committed to the use of drugs – not of the strongest kind, but unwanted and illegal in our society. The boy had a somewhat problematic upbringing that culminated in his being placed at the children's home nine years old. The reason I got there, he said himself, was that I had such a strong temperament. As he himself experienced it, the time in the orphanage was marked by a lack of love and by the use of adult power to stagnate his temper. From the age of 16, he spent a third of his life in prison. Were you not frightened of committing illegalities when you lost your freedom and became subject to the prison regime? I asked. No, why should I? he answered. It was in prison that I first met someone who cared about me and showed me! When I sat like a startled boy in a corner of the yard the first time I sat in, an older prisoner came to me and asked if I wanted a smoke. When I start my post with this profile, it's because I want to leave my different comments on the budget with the 19-year-old's history and statements as a backtrace. As a politician in the Christian People's Party, I would like to stress the great importance of prevention. The investments made to stimulate public and voluntary efforts to build an inclusive, warm local environment where individuals are seen, respected and positively stimulated and developed have a decisive long-term impact. It's our job both in the family and in the community to help build society with good values. I fear a profound individualization where neighbourhood and community become the task of others, the responsibility of others and not mine – I am one of those who live there. The police should also be part of the community environment, as a safety factor and a stabilising and guiding adult contact in the child and youth communities. But we also need justice policies to regulate, expose and punish the forces that violate the laws of the community for a good and fruitful way of living together. The 9-year-old was sent to an orphanage because he had such a strong temperament. The meaning of home and child protection – and the PP service for everything I know – was enough that in the orphanage they would be able to take him and keep him in check, that is. to exercise power to discipline. The Christian People's Party does not believe in the exercise of power and power as the way to learn acceptable behavior and discipline. It's the characteristic of behaviour in dictatorship states that we distance ourselves from. Maybe I'm wrong about what the various agencies were assessing and thinking about when the boy ended up at the orphanage. Perhaps no one took responsibility for coordination and exchange of professional views across departments when the boy’s situation was surveyed, evaluated and decided. I have the impression that conditions have improved in recent years, but it is still necessary to stress that without undermining the obligation of professional secrecy, cooperation can work together for the benefit of a client. The obligation of professional secrecy shall safeguard the interests of the client and shall not prevent the effective and professional organisation of what can actually be achieved through cooperation. Let me also, for sure, add that the 19-year-old has given me full freedom to use him as an example where it might be appropriate. It was the police who attacked the teenager I'm talking about. They did that right in, because he broke Norwegian law. For Storting, it is important to provide the police with the tools and economic framework that enable them to prevent and combat crime. Appropriations and other decisions have provided the police with important resources in recent years. This shall be continued in the budget currently adopted. But the efforts of the police must also produce results that are measurable and that are shown to be present. It can be measured by the length of treatment for cases and by the percentage of clarification, while the presence is about visible police and time when everyday people experience burglaries or other minor crimes. For the police, it can be small Russian, while the victim feels dramatic. In particular, I consider it necessary to comment on the joint comment on police helicopters. This is shown in the St. pp. No 1 on page104 that the department departs from the idea of its own helicopter service in the police and would rather further develop the option of renting helicopters. As the trial project with police helicopters was launched on the initiative of the Stortinget, we naturally find that the Stortinget also assesses the experience and dietary benefit of renting and ownership. Without prejudging the Christian People's Party's choice in such a case, however, I would point to contingency, exercise needs and the time factor in concrete matters. In addition, it is likely that it will be possible to cooperate, for example: with the transport seat in preventive traffic monitoring, in the case of a uniform helicopter and a rapid presence in individual situations. From the police and prosecution, the client came to the court in my example. He never experienced school mediation, which is a possibility system before a minor becomes a criminal. The conflict management system also shows positive results, especially in relation to minor offenders. These are arrangements Christian People's Party looks very positive. We fully support the reference in the comments that matters should not be left to lie and wait, either because the defender's wish is known and occupied for months or six months to come, or because of other reasons, such as: lack of judges. This is what we have laid the basis for remedying by significantly improving pay conditions. We also see that factors related to other aspects of working conditions and the working environment need to be taken into account in order to facilitate the work of the judges. It will be important to continue to rehabilitate and reconstruct warehouses, where this is still hanging. Based on a few articles in Drammen's Official Journal-Buskerud's magazine in November, I also allow myself to point out the unfortunate situation some play with judges may come up in. Strong descriptions for which the co-judgment is poorly prepared may require subsequent processing by a professional. The costs are not borne by the public and the compensation for co-judgment is NOK 250 per year. day(s) It can't be right that you have to charge your own economy to serve as a co-judgment. From the date of the decision, there shall be a minimum period of time between the commencement of the settlement. The 19-year-old did not have too much positive to say about prison according to his own experience. Too little staffing meant that the officers did not have time to call or help, and in addition he was not sure if they wanted it either. The Christian People's Party has great faith in the Norwegian prison system and will help make it even better. We are committed to what we have said in connection with the notification of criminal justice. The aim of the prison system is to ensure that the sentence is executed, but also to contribute to the rehabilitation of the convicted person to a crime-free life after the settlement. What are the main tools for achieving this objective? First of all, it's the employees. Their function is important today and will become even more important in the future. I am thinking here of the task as a contact officer, of the prison services and of other groups. Let me also add: as prison performances through this budget have been transferred to the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, I hope that their status within the department will not be reduced, but that they will still be part of the system as they have been to now, to the best of the clients. Secondly, of course, it is the prisoner himself who is essential for the achievement of the goal. The motivation for changing the behaviour must be present. This is not least the willingness to implement what is needed to live without committing criminal acts. The framework conditions are also very important. Then I don't least think about the economy of the system and the programs that need to be adapted to the individual prisoners. The last point I want to draw attention to, as also the 19-year-old mentioned, is the network outside prison. This must be established, where appropriate reestablished, when the sentenced person is in custody. Except in one of the films about the Olsen Band, Egon used the time in prison to plot new crimes. Such exploitation of time in prison is a defeat for all parties. For the challenge of reducing the relapse among criminals, everything must be carefully ‘hours and hours’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e831	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e834	It is increasingly clear that the central government in this budget for the justice sector is showing its zeal for increased fees and charges in this area as well. My claim is that the central government doesn't own a stomach measure. From the New Year, the Government proposes to increase the legal fees by a total of 13.2 pst. – from 530 to 600 kroner. This means that you have to spend NOK 70 more when, for example, you have to renew the passport. When you buy a dwelling, object lighting and mortgage bonds will cost NOK 245 more only in fees. All actions before the courts or tribunals, such as: in the case of a dispute relating to the purchase and sale of a dwelling, 420 kroner are more expensive. If a resident ends up in the yard, the fee to the court will increase by NOK 1750. These increases in fees will cost the judiciary 145 million. kr in increased revenue next year. The real gravity of the proposal is that the increased fee revenue is mainly intended to cover the increase in the remuneration of judges and the increase in the remuneration of lawyers. The consequences will be that even more Nordics will hesitate to go to court when they feel unfairly treated. Increased fees to the judiciary are therefore one of the most immoral decisions the central government has made in this context, but I assume that the Christian People's Party does not agree with this, although it is immoral this is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e843	I find it interesting to get a lecture on morals and immorality from the representative Stang, and I would like to answer the question. Yes, there have been increased fees and charges in this budget, that is quite correct. To a large extent, it shall cover the costs associated with the coverage of those charges. However, there are also funds, as the representative, Mr Stang correctly pointed out, which go beyond the specific expenditure involved in the individual charging area. No one has tried to hide it. If you tried to hide it, you could talk about morals being questionable. There are others who hide things, and then it becomes more doubtful. We have to collect funds in order to be able to bear the increased costs we decide. These are some of them, albeit on a small scale, but I'm going to give the representative Stang the right to not all of these funds to cover specific expenditure in the respective charging areas. I would strongly reject the fact that this is about immorality. This is about policies and economic policies to make things better in different areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e852	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e855	The fight against crime and for a safer society is important for the Center Party. Security and legal certainty are fundamental prerequisites for the functioning of a welfare society. The need for basic security of everyday life, law and order must and must be taken seriously. Causes of crime and instruments to combat it are very complex and complicated, and require politicians to approach the issue of humility. There are no simple and easy-to-use solutions for combating crime. Good criminal policy means that the focus is on individual responsibility for their own actions as well as the conditions in society that affect the development of crime. We should not accept criminal acts, but we have a responsibility to counteract and prevent illegal acts. Combating crime is more extensive than just an issue of increased police and more severe penalties. Well, that's how important is the development of individual attitudes to right and wrong. There is no reason to hide that next year's budget appears to be a good budget. The budget reflects the ambition for high activity and significant commitment to action by the Ministry. It deserves commendation from the department. The next year's budget provides for a strengthening of the Police and Lena's seat. The government will deliver 7.4 pst. more to the police in 2000 compared to the current year. The Courts are also strengthened in the budget. There is every reason to be satisfied that the Government of the draft budget has made use of the funds to cover a significant increase in the salary of the judges of the first and second instance. The increase in pay will undoubtedly contribute to a reduction in the length of proceedings by better recruitment to the judiciary. The work on introducing a new organisational structure in criminal justice is in line with the reference in the criminal justice notification. I have no doubt that the proposed regionalisation will lead to a more appropriate and efficient organisational and etat structure. In line with this, criminal services must also be allocated resources to avoid a bottlenecks in the criminal justice chain. During the Committee's budgetary procedure, it has been possible to strengthen criminal justice by 11 million. kr. I am very pleased with that. I am also very pleased that it has been possible to get an initial grant to Tromsø Circuit Prison. It will put an end to the unworthy reconciliation of the prisoners and, not least, meet the requirements of the employees for proper employment. It is gratifying to note that there has been a decline in recorded crime of violence in 1999 compared to the same time last year. Winning crime, which accounts for the bulk of the offences, has also suffered a significant decline on a national basis. The causes are more numerous and may, for example: be the response of police and prosecution authorities to repeaters in the field of commercial crime. The prevention of the police may be another cause. The government has asked for concrete measures to reduce the time between crime and criminal response. The Committee is aware that the Government has started work on improving the effectiveness of criminal proceedings and that the work on designing measures is being carried out in full. It should be noted that this year the Committee has been more closely involved in the organisation and performance management of the various stages of the criminal proceedings. There is a turn away from the somewhat one-sided focus on whether the agencies have sufficient resources to live up to the expectations they are faced with, until a turn towards very clearly demanding results. The joy is that the floors and organisations themselves strongly want to contribute to such a turn. The fact that there will be a lot of excitement in the justice sector over the next year clearly supports the budget proposal. That's enough to mention: The Government's announced overall plan for the fight against crime among children and young peopleOt.prp. No 7 for 1999-2000 on the establishment of a Police DirectorateOt.prp. on the organisation of watch-keeping proposals for the use of anonymous witnesses’ reports on the follow-up to the suspension by the Court of Justice and the Structural Committee and the civil justice investigation on the basic plan These are some of the most important cases dealt with by the Judicial Committee. I allow myself to express that, together with the offensive attitude of the Council of State and the Ministry, the attitude and the signals and leadership in it are, in sum, a good basis for enforcing law and order, and providing citizens with security of life and property. Finally, I would say that I do not know the particular matter that the representative Simonsen raised here. But one thing is clear: neither the Minister of Justice nor the members of the Committee of Justice accept such criminal behaviour, and will strike down on such things.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e903	In its alternative state budget, SV has proposed changes and strengthening the justice sector, focusing primarily on post-closure and follow-up after settlement and prevention. When we know that over 80 pst. Of those who make a sentence in prison, who have been detained before, there is something serious that does not work in relation to the post-criminal protection. Now we know that criminal justice is changing purely administratively, and that there is a pooling of criminal services in freedom and criminal care in prison and a new organisational model. What we think it has taken too little account of is the need to increase efforts in criminal matters in freedom with the follow-up of prisoners who have completed the zone. There is a very strong need for further efforts in this area. SV also had proposals to strengthen the police and officers' seat and to strengthen the system of free legal assistance, because there is a system that has been constantly narrowed down, and where the threshold for those who have little to walk with is probably so high as to be able to claim their right, that legal certainty is at stake. Another area that should have had greater efforts is the conflict management system, as we know that both conflict management and school mediation are well-functioning schemes. I noticed that several other speakers have also been involved. I've seen it on my own, too, how to do it, for example. in the case of school mediation, relatively uncompromising counterparties, who make much stricter demands on what to follow up and how to sort things out than some adults would ever find out, but that there are solutions that are perceived to be fairer by the young people involved in a conflict. Just being trained in resolving conflicts in ways other than resorting to represals in the schoolyard is a very important part of prevention work. We are not going to make proposals outside or within the framework of today, but the SV's group is going to vote in favour of the agreement concluded by the Centre and the Workers' Party in this field. We want to focus the Storting's attention on another matter that I think can be more discussed in the future. Centres for ethnic discrimination have produced their first report on the extent of ethnic discrimination in Norway. I want to draw the attention of the Minister of Justice and the police to the conflict that may exist between different ethnic groups and the police in many contexts. It is very important that the police in-house have extremely good attention to these issues, because proper police work requires both trust and boundaries at the same time. With regard to the trust that the police need in all groups of the population, it is very important that no root can really be accused of discriminating or deporting some ethnic groups. SV has also noted that the majority of the Committee gives new signals as to the areas in which civil servants should be able to work. This is a field that SV has addressed in many contexts, because some organisations have lost the opportunity to get civil servants to their practices. We have noticed that the majority of the Committee expresses the fact that both cultural work and work in youth organisations can be part of preventive security policy work, and the majority of the Committee on Justice gives an important signal in this sector. Finally, I would like to say that in many respects the Justice Committee has underlined the need to have local police stations. In Oslo one has gone from having 20 local police stations, but is now in the process of building up five again. This means that a population base of 100,000 people does not have what is perceived as a local police station. I know that one thing, namely a new police station in Carl Berner's place, has been in the Committee's searchlight in dealing with this position. I also see from the department's answer that one is looking for a solution that is not too expensive, but I think there are many important reasons why this matter must be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e922	On behalf of the Left, I would first of all like to express that the Government's draft budget represents a joyful effort in the justice sector. The Government's proposal has a significant strengthening of most areas under this department. That is probably why both the committee position of the year and today's debate have been in many ways more sober than they have been in the previous two years. In both last two years' budget debates, the Left has stressed that the Ministry of Justice is responsible for the entire state of law, and that it is far more than police, criminal and criminal justice. The work done in the Ministry of Justice in the last year shows that the Ministry is most aware of this – in my opinion to a much greater extent than the Committee, and perhaps in particular the Committee has been in the past two years. The left has also been concerned with a good and effective fight against crime. At the same time, we have highlighted the need to focus on the action that works. Therefore, I would like to express my joy at the fact that the Committee, and perhaps especially the Right Party and the Advance Party, during the visit to New York, discovered that a rapid reaction in many ways is more important than the length of the punishment. In all imprudence, the Left has pointed out in both last two years' budget debates here in the Stortinget. I would also like to stress that it is gratifying that the appropriations for the police continue to be strengthened. It will enhance the clarification of matters, and it will improve the possibility of a visible police force. But it is also important to stress that it is important to use the funds effectively and effectively, and I am therefore pleased that, as far as I understand, the Department is also committed to ensuring good police efficiency. Initially, I pointed out that the Ministry of Justice is responsible for much more than police and criminal matters. The left considers it very gratifying that the work in the ministry in the last year, and the work in progress, shows the breadth of the ministry's field of work in terms of ensuring and strengthening the rule of law in a broad sense. I would like to mention here some examples of this – some issues that have major budgetary implications, and other issues that have very limited budgetary implications: Firstly, there has been an increase in the salaries of lawyers in the various free legal aid schemes. This is important in order to ensure access to qualified lawyers precisely to these matters. These include criminal cases and a number of other important legal aid cases, such as child protection cases, marriage cases, other childrelated cases, etc. Furthermore, there has been an increase in the salaries of judges, which will strengthen the recruitment of judges and thus strengthen the courts. Furthermore, proposals have been made to investigate a separate Commission for the resumption of criminal proceedings, which is likely to ensure that the issue is addressed in a better way than the present system does. Furthermore, an action plan has been adopted to combat violence against women and an action plan to combat forcible sex.In order to ensure greater representativeness in the selection of children, a follow-up to my interview has been undertaken to ensure the evaluation of legislation.The budget strengthens privacy through a new law on personal data registers and by strengthening data protection.Furthermore, legal certainty in asylum and foreign affairs is strengthened by the creation of a separate title, in addition to the decoration that has taken place on certain issues related to foreign affairs, and issues of labour immigration are being addressed in the extension of this. The list of examples could have been done longer. But there is one question there is particular reason to highlight, and on which further work needs to be done. That is the question of the use of custody. The government has done something about the use of detention and custody, but there is another field that also requires further vigilance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e965	This year's budget position by the Judicial Committee shows that there is quite a lot of agreement between the parties on criminal policy here in the Stortinget. We point out how important it is for each individual to take responsibility for his own actions and to work towards conditions that affect the development of crime. We stress that it is decisive and very important that whoever does something wrong is held accountable and has to answer for his actions. It's right and good and good, but in later times we've seen through the press and other media, that this doesn't always work out. I see here that all of them report cases of violence against women who are laid away and who bring many women to power. When we see that women are being brought to court with counterclaims for damages, and they are being sentenced to pay before the investigation of the electoral system is completed, I realize that the people's opinion is missing the threat that the state of law will take care of one. And when a person is punished by those who are to protect the individual's right to get the case tried, there's only a bad word from us politicians when we talk about how important it is to strengthen the perception of the rule of law in people the most. There is also a sense of justice when we see that a woman who reports a warrant is sentenced to pay the report for a "female year's wages" in size. It also becomes even more provocative when we see that the victims of violence do not receive the corresponding compensation from the court. It is therefore very important that women's rights are put on the agenda, and I would like to see the Justice Committee ask that a public selection be set up to give this problem the right public face that it is entitled to have. I was somewhat surprised when I saw that Minister of Justice Dørum in two different television programs dealing with coercion and violence against women of former men and Samaritans, had no idea of the extent of these problems. I would like to point out that the issue of cork is new or surprising. Whatever, it's a public responsibility to ensure the legal security of these women who experience something of the most demeaning in a man's life, simply an assault in the form of power and coercion. I noticed that only a few days after the last television programme in which the Minister of Justice was confronted with these problems, a cross-ministerial working group presented an action plan, ‘Wald against women’. I was not so impressed by the proposals for action in the action plan. It is important to identify who is responsible for coordination in the ministry, or to launch projects to develop models that can be used by municipalities, or for police to carry out preventive work, to hold seminars for county workers and to set up courses for those working in a crisis centre are good and good. However, there was not one measure to address the criminal chain, not one measure to ensure that the police can provide evidence, the systematic recording of individual information, and the fact that the victim more often reports serious home elections. Nor was it required that prosecution be prioritised in family elections or that one should use the media systematically to inform the general about condemned criminal reactions to family elections and the like, or for example. the requirement to set up a multi-disciplinary leadership forum for the police, health and social services of the cities and municipalities, measures which could both prevent and help the victims of violence. Prioritising follow-up where the restraining order was not kept was also not mentioned, nor was the creation of own contact telephones for election victims in the police chambers, including for the victims’ families or friends who want to inform about the election. In 1998, the crisis telephone in Sogn and Fjordane had a total of 521 telephones from named women and, in addition, 104 telephones from women who did not dare to give their name. Over 30 pst. of the reported acts of violence in Oslo in 1998 were, if so, carried out in the home, in other words: it is safer for the same women to walk in Oslo streets in the middle of the night. Here we see the amount of darkness we're talking about. From pig-grown settlements to the largest cities there is harassment and violence against women in today's well-frozen welfare societies. This cannot continue without an offensive hold from the authorities. If we don't take this seriously and show that we're willing to give this form of power a public face, we don't have a legal society that takes responsibility for women, nor for men. We don't have an equal society until we take this problem seriously at all stages of the criminal justice chain and in all prevention forums. So I'm calling again for a public selection to be set down. We can't go into a new millennium without putting this properly on the agenda, and so far so that our women get the legal certainty they're entitled to. Ensuring and improving living conditions for women is also an effort for safer worlds, for better social development, for increased value creation and for the development of democracy in our country into a new millennium.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e977	The main areas of government activity for the justice sector in 2000 are: reduced crime, security and legal certainty, transparency and democracy, and a human asylum and refugee policy, and it is well known that the draft budget represents an offensive initiative with a nominal expenditure growth of 7.7 p.m. within my area of responsibility. In a legal society, every citizen must have security against abuses of life, health, personal integrity and property. Security is a central welfare factor. Security is strengthened by effective measures to prevent crime, by rapid response from society to criminal acts, and by building up the support apparatus and assistance mechanisms for those who have fallen victim to crime. And then I have to ask directly whether the representative Nistad has not overlooked anything in the action plan that was presented, because there is considerable emphasis on the criminal case chain, police follow-up and a review of police behaviour at all levels. I've publicly expressed it. It is also not that I have stated that I have had no idea that there are dark numbers, but I stated in two TV programs that when I got a witness, it was unusually important. Because it's with witnesses we can act as effectively as the representative with his commitment expressed that she wanted, and I share her commitment. The government will provide more rapid criminal proceedings and better interaction between the different stages of the criminal proceedings chain. Provision is made for the rapid implementation of measures of both a legal and administrative nature to reduce the duration of proceedings. Two working groups have been set up that will draw up on an ongoing basis concrete advice reports, some of which have been commented on by previous speakers in this debate. The groups shall consider legislative and regulatory changes, administrative changes, routine improvements and proposals for concrete actions based on the pilot schemes and projects previously implemented. The draft State budget for 2000 has taken a number of steps to achieve a faster settlement of criminal cases. The Police and National Assembly will have further increased resources in 2000, and it is quite natural and, of course, that I agree with the formulations made by the Committee with regard to the police high school students in 2000. The prosecution authority is also proposed to be strengthened. And it is in the draft budget that funds are set aside to cover a significant increase in the salary of judges in first and second instance. This will improve the recruitment of the judiciary. This, in the context of continued efforts to develop a new procedural system at first and second instance, could reduce the length of proceedings. The public billing rate is increased to ensure the recruitment of well-qualified public appointed lawyers as defenders of criminal matters and as lawyers in matters falling within the free legal aid system. This is necessary to ensure that the weakest in our society have access to well-qualified counsel when needed. The Ministry’s broad field of action, many individual cases and extensive senior management role make it very difficult to maintain a strong focus on the main justice policy challenges. In order to have a stronger governance approach on the main challenges of justice policy and a more effective response, the Government has considered it necessary not only to assess changes in the justice sector but also to simplify, streamline and modernise the task management of the Ministry of Justice. Responsibility for questioning asylum seekers shall be transferred from the Police Office to the Directorate for Foreign Affairs during 2000. The budget also provides for the creation of the independent complaint panel for foreign affairs from 1 November 2000. As of 1 January 2001, criminal services will establish a three-level structure instead of today's two. It also deals with the legislative proposals for setting up a Police Directorate and its own State Lottery Authority as a Directorate. Lottery supervision shall aim at a sound distribution of revenue from games and lotteries and at a maximum share of turnover from lotteries for social and humanitarian purposes. In the 2000 budget, it is also announced that the Government will promote the next harvest of the magnificence of the future structure of the district and city courts, the future organisation of the central judicial administration, and a communication on police resources and local organisation. The Government also assesses whether tasks assigned to the Ministry of Justice today should be taken out of the ministry, for example by transferring them to other parts of the administration. I see it as a main task to modernise the justice sector. That is what I want to achieve by streamlining the criminal settlement and changing the organisation of the justice sector, which I have had in the past. Furthermore, it is necessary to achieve more efficient use of resources across the sector. With new research methods, with a modernised and more efficient police surveillance service, with considerable resource allocation in recent years and new and more flexible, e.g. with regard to the use of wage resources through the new working time system, we must expect individual police districts to be able to achieve the objectives of, among others. visible police and shorter processing time. I also refer to the announced announcement of police resources and local organisation. Furthermore, a focus on the internal organisational conditions in the courts, with a focus on efficiency, resource use and quality of decisions and services provided, as well as on the ability to achieve overall objectives, is important. The Ministry of Justice and the individual courts must therefore focus on the ongoing development of the internal organisation. Crime prevention will continue to focus a great deal of attention on improving the use of resources. The Ministry of Justice is planning the submission of a pre-2000 notification concerning the rescue helicopter service. I also want to give priority to the work on establishing the new system of search for the deceased. These are measures that have become important following the tragic ‘Sleipner’ accident. Finally, let me say briefly: I am pleased that decisions are being taken today for the justice sector, which is largely in line with the Government's draft budget for the year 2000. The decision means that we have a strong commitment to the justice sector with the prioritisation of a faster procedure throughout the criminal justice chain.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1009	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1012	I mentioned in my main post that organised crime had also got its foothold here in Norway, and that we have dealt with a number of instruments related to combating organised crime, increasing the possibility of economic integration, more effective methods for the police and increasing international cooperation. The situation in Sweden is clearly quite different. Serious, widespread crime among people related to the neo-Nazist environment and the MC environment is described. They come up with threats and commit criminal acts in an attempt to paralyze parts of the justice system, which directly threatens democracy, as was said directly in a programme on Swedish TV yesterday. So that's what happens in our neighboring country. I know we are waiting for a matter relating to the security of police officers and anonymous witnesses, but the Council of State could give some reflections on such activity as we are now described as very serious in Sweden, linked to Norwegian conditions. Do we have a good enough preparedness? Do we have a good overview of similar activities here, so we won't suddenly be in the situation that we see an increase in criminal acts like what we are now observing in Sweden, which is very serious?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1021	I can inform the Council that, at the latest yesterday, a meeting was held by the Ministry of Justice with representatives of the police, the National Attorney and others to discuss cross-border organised crime. One of the themes was the practical follow-up to what is stated in the budget proposal, to work together in Økokrim, KRIPOS, Oslo Police District and any other part of the police to combat such crime in a practical way, which I will return to Stortinget with later. I'm just stressing it, so there's a click on it. On 1 December, the consultation deadline expired for all cases of increased criminal penalties against those at risk, people in the judiciary and the police, as well as anonymous witnesses and source protection. I put great emphasis on it. I would also like to stress that we focus on combating all forms of organised crime. The Odelstingsproposition which was dealt with here on exploration methods partly enters into force on 1 January, i.e. important parts of it shall be readily accessible to the police. With regard to the various aspects of the crime scene described by the representative, Bjørnstad, which are linked to far-right groups — and we can add MC criminals, we can add criminals involved in organised drug activities — various operational missions have been given to the police that the various sections of the police should both systematise intelligence and look at all operational measures. I put a lot of pressure on this, and I'm very concerned about it, but I don't want to go into detail. I'll say it that way that we feel that we don't trivialize it ourselves, but that we take it with the greatest seriousness. And I see it basically so that any threat that is facing a person, for example. as the representative Simonsen described it is unacceptable. It's not the quantity that's critical here, it's qualitatively a limit that's crossed, and that limit that we don't accept is crossed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1032	The Judicial Committee shall devote a great deal of time each year to the examination of the budget submitted. We start at the beginning of October, and we have a budget debate at the beginning of December. We're going into every budget line, and we're doing a thorough job, so we're in for the whole thing. It is considered a significant change in policy if you are able to move in amounts of 150 million. kr – that was probably about what was shifted in the justice sector during the budgetary conciliation last year. This year the framework has been established by a different majority. But we get the frames two weeks before giving the setting, so we also put a lot of work into fighting about the crumbs that we get to distribute. In stark contrast to this, the practice of presenting a budget for the current year is at the brink of the collapse session. This is not a particular problem for the Justice Committee; it is a problem for all the Committees of the European Parliament. This year, it is said that for the different departments, there are now redisposals of a billion dollars for the current year. When we look at it in the light of the budgetary changes that the budgetary conciliation is capable of, it raises a fundamental question about democracy. We then make at the tame of each budget year the transfer of large amounts almost without debate, almost without time use. And my question to the Minister of Justice is, can we, for example, The next year, try to make the balancing proposition for the current year in the justice sector come two weeks earlier, so that we have the 200 million. This year’s increased expenditures, which are in the context of the new era, can carry out a slightly more thorough treatment – because this is of such a size that it can be referred to as a policy change if we want to look at it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1043	I have to bring with me the representative Krohn Devold's reflections and questions. But it's quite right that at the time of the thawing, we're doing what's necessary. We have to cover the costs that the police had on President Clinton's visit – I assume everyone understands that. We announced in the budget that we would come back to appropriations for GSM interception, and we do. We announced that we would cover extraordinary costs of the Kosovo operation, and we do. We announced in the budget that we would do something about the extraordinarily large asylum queues, and we do. I fully agree that in sum this is a significant amount, but it is announced in the budget. The general question asked by the representative will be taken with me. I see that in many ways it leaves behind reflections that I, as a member of the government, should not only hear here, but also pass on in other contexts. And I can promise that I will.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1050	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1053	There is no doubt that the opportunities for a fairer distribution policy lie at the intersection of the centre parties and the Workers' Party/SV. In this way, the annual budgetary settlement between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties is a step in the right direction. The distribution policy and the public offer to the population, especially to children and young people, have made a very important contribution to the development of crime in our society. Preventive work must be given priority, which is also emphasised by a competent police team. This year's budget provides for a further strengthening of the police force. For the Workers’ Party, a whole in the criminal proceedings chain is very important, and therefore the increase in the salaries of judges and the recruitment and training of new judges are important elements of the budget of the year, which facilitates the proper functioning of the courts. Functional and good legal facilities are also of great importance for an effective court. In this connection, it is gratifying that we are now getting a start-up grant for a new thinghouse in Tromsø. The third paragraph of the criminal justice chain — the criminal justice system — has now become the ‘missing link’ in the chain. The government has not arranged for a proper follow-up to the Criminal Service Notice. In the internal budgetary cooperation within the Committee, we have managed to rectify something, but in a very close enough way. In this area, the state budget will face major challenges in the coming years. In this area, too, we have found room for an initial grant to Tromsø, which is for the most urgent rehabilitation of the Tromsø circuit prison. The representative, Jørn Stag, raised the issue of legal fees earlier today. I also want to get into this field. In the budget statement last year, we asked the Ministry of Justice to assess whether the amount of the legal fee works exclusively on the ability of some people to avail themselves of the legal system. The Ministry of Justice's answer is that this is not to a large extent the case. Based on the input we have received from the Workers' Party fraction, I don't feel quite sure about this. It must be a fundamental democratic right for people to have a real opportunity to exercise their rights, even if the economy is not the best. In view of this, I would like to ask the Council of State and the Ministry to follow closely how the level of legal fees we now receive will affect the individual's ability to avail himself of our legal system. The budgetary agreement made it possible to establish the scheme of a fund for the search for dead people at sea. The government itself had not been able to follow up the schedule of the Great Britain's justice ministry had provided for the formation of any such fund. In the meantime, unfortunately, we have had a new major tragic accident on our hard coast, which affects many people. Although the formation and use of the fund have no connection to this loss, it reminds us very strongly of the justification of such a fund. Many are those along the coast who have engaged in this work. The fishing team and the Fish Archipelago team in particular can now be satisfied that the work to get this done is crowned with luck. However, the establishment of the Fund must not take into account what is most important, namely an effective rescue service that should be able to operate as best as possible to save people in distress, at sea or on land. In this respect, I miss the status of the Ministry of Justice regarding the tightening up of reimbursement requirements for rescue operations carried out after negligent or risky actions. The implementation of the Schengen cooperation is within the next year's budget. For Norway, this cooperation is very important both in terms of freedom of movement across internal borders and effective external border control. It is important to note that Norway is still free to define Norwegian asylum and refugee policies. Police cooperation in Schengen, together with other international police cooperation such as Europol and Interpol, will become important tools in the fight against the increasingly cross-border serious international organised crime. In relation to this much cynical crime, it is important that we have an effective and robust police force, where we must also be able to provide the police and the individual police officer with the necessary protection when needed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1088	At the Norwegian Narcotics Association Conference in Trondheim on 2 and 3 October, I got a thorough introduction to how the MC environment works, and I'm glad that the Council of State took it up – it's one of the most dangerous pillars of international crime. They also make active efforts to humanise their own activities, and the tactics they use are to paste and get attention from familiar people — in politics, in the artist community and in other artists. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State will initiate adult education in the Government about the activity of the MC environments in these areas. And I'm not hiding that I see this in relation to today's post in the evening – the prime minister obviously needs to understand that this is not to use all the good forces in society, on the contrary, it's the destructive forces you legitimize in this way. I allow myself to ask a question in the inquiry about the same matter. Traditionally, one of the main lines of conflict in Norwegian policy relates to justice policy in the broadest sense. It is therefore gratifying that the parties on the Stortinget, well on the way, have come to common positions on many difficult issues. There is no doubt that this is due to the fact that much of unrealistic genius has been abandoned by the vast majority of parties. It is justified to talk about a clear intensification of the attitude to criminal activity. Right will have a tight but fair and predictable criminal policy based on a humane view and the principles of the rule of law. I am pleased to see that the Right's vision has gained both in the opinion and in the Stortinget. Nevertheless, some areas of conflict remain of great importance. The most disappointing thing is perhaps the Labour Party's views on the police surveillance service and on the Transparency Act. The opinion expressed by the Government in relation to the POT is deeply concerned to the right, and finds only limited comfort in the fact that an overall committee underlines that the ministry cannot make significant changes to the surveillance service until the Storting has been dealt with by police law and police communication. Nevertheless, when the majority accepts to transfer a total of 47 posts from POT to other police operations, and at the same time claims that this will not weaken the monitoring service’s ability to perform mandated tasks, this testifies to a lack of attitude towards this important service. It is serious when such a loyal and cautious official as the head of surveillance in the evening post of 18 November asks questions about what kind of monitoring policy policy policy policy policy is seeking. The concerns do not diminish when the majority continues to maintain a rigorous enforcement of the law of transparency and grants substantial amounts of money, which could go to the fight against real crime, to the establishment and operation of a treatment body, of course with its own secretariat, and to a complaint subject, and, for security reasons, to blame the question of advances and to grant money for damages. The right is contrary to the Transparency Act and makes proposals accordingly. In my view, it is difficult, not to say impossible, to reconcile the consideration of the sources and working methods of the monitoring service with almost unlimited transparency. Right will have driving good secret services, and what should now be on the agenda, for a total magnificence, was the work of repatriating trust in the secret services, working to illustrate the need for these services in an unpredictable and dangerous world, and of course also ensuring that systematic violations do not occur in the future. The claims that might arise could easily have been resolved through the general rules on compensation in our country. The country's arms owners have been guilty of malice by the government. The sharp increase in passport fees, and not least of the arms fees, strongly disagrees with the right. The treatment to which the country's arms owners are exposed, first through an arms law that in some areas goes a long way in stigmatising some of the country's most law-abiding citizens, and where the vic is subsequently followed up with a fee increase of DKK 125 to DKK 600, makes the request full. The reactions from all of Skytter Norway are strong and, in my opinion, very justified. In the course of last year’s treatment of civil service, the majority of the dignitaries introduced the term ‘defendant’ on the country’s military negotiators. The truly vulnerable in this country, who are willing to defend the country with arms in hand and with life in hand, sees this as offensive. At the same time, the majority, as known, put in place a self-declaration system to prove their ‘conscience’. I allow myself to put the word in quotation marks. Of course, it went as predicted: we have had a sharp increase in the exemption at the top of the strong increase that was the year before.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1107	The budget proposal and the debate show that we are dealing with major challenges and serious things that are crucial to people's lives, health and quality of life. That's why I think it's good that we have an overall committee at almost all of the points in the setting. We agree on the main lines, we agree on what we cannot tolerate, whether we are talking about organized crime, threats, domestic violence or insecurity. We agree that efforts are needed in several areas, such as better organisation of the criminal chain, better flow of cases, faster responses, better cooperation between municipalities, better conditions for victims, better content of compensation. It is good that we agree on these important issues in the justice sector. However, in order to find the best solutions, it is not possible to deal with these challenges and to believe that they can only be solved in the justice sector. I think it is devastating when the Progress Party on the altar of populism characterizes others as irresponsible. There has recently been a lot of focus on victims of violence, especially women and children, and that is good. Because there's something fundamentally wrong when it's statistically most dangerous for a woman to stay in her own home. There's a lot of mess here. We need to put in place more measures, we need to have better facilities, we need to make further legislative changes, but we also need to talk about attitudes that need to be changed. It's been more than five years since we discussed the proposition on the position of crime victims in this house. There we put the victims in the centre and made a number of legislative changes and measures. But, as I have shown earlier, among other things. a. in an interpellation, it helps little if the changes from our side are not followed up properly. It helps little to demand a better follow-up of the police to victims and to have local information packages and violent officers if the police prefer to look away when victims seek them. It doesn't help much to want to make the trial easier for victims if there's very few judges who use access to the closing of the courtroom, to expel the rapist, etc. It does not help to adopt rules on a restraining order and to grant money for a violent alarm if it is used to a small extent. And it doesn't help much that we're constantly giving signals that the penalty framework is going to be used to a greater extent when we see that the court is following up late and with small steps. We're talking about attitudes to the crime that's going on behind the private doors, we're talking about attitudes to some women's demands on fundamental human rights. An important part of crime prevention is to get violent people back on their feet. It helps little to put them in prison for a certain number of months of the year if they come out again in the same environment, with the same setting, maybe even more aggressive and corrupt. Therefore, it is important that we systematise and extend the violence programmes that the Government has also announced. For other offenders, too, it has to be a goal to get out better after the acquittal than when they went in. There are great demands on employees, it is important that they are skilled and that they are enough. In the Workers' Party, we rely on the Government to ensure that it is correct that four new classes at KRUS will cover both the expected take-off and the necessary increase in the number of employees. A review of education and a possible higher education model has now been announced for three years, and it is necessary that it is soon to be on the table. As in so many other areas, several dollars could also be used in criminal matters. The agreement between the Labour Party and the Government pushed out a few extra million kroner to the Criminal Service, but I had hoped the Minister of Justice could confirm that this had to be followed up with even more to ensure that the criminal justice notice was properly followed up, and that money had to follow with the law that is now to come into place. The civil protection duty we had, as mentioned, a review of here in the Storting three years ago. Then it was decided that it should be part of the total defence. And in that context, it was shown that the content of the service must be relevant to being peace-making, conflict-solving and having a role in crisis preparedness. The majority pointed out at the time that it had to apply also in the field of culture and science. Many of us were therefore paffed when the guidelines came and what they said was that they should only be given service in the cultural sector when the activity is directed directly at children and young people. We have now clarified that in the setting, and I will take that into account. Finally, I would like to say that I support Krohn Devold's view of how the effusion works. It's undemocratic when so large sums are moved on without proper political treatment, and I therefore support her view as to whether we could get the proposition earlier or find other ways to solve it, so that we get proper treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1129	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1132	There's an increase of 7.7 pst. for the justice sector in relation to the current year, with a total framework of nearly DKK 10.8 billion for 2000. Although police, courts and justice are strengthened, some of the bureaucracy is also significantly strengthened by more people involved in the public justice sector. The Progress Party has with great scepticism addressed the individual chapters strengthening bureaucracy and re-prioritised funds to functional areas to strengthen the prosecution authority, the executing authority and the judicial authority. The Progress Party believes that the Kosovo crisis cannot be a partial argument to increase expenditure in the Ministry of Justice by 10 million. kr. Instead, we want funds to go to social organisations, such as the Norwegian Drugs Association, which have as their primary objective the fight against drug abuse, especially among the younger sections of the population. We also want to strengthen the budget for the rights of lawmakers, lords' and citizens' rights, more than the government's proposals. This will lead to shorter procedural periods and thus to better continuity in the judicial activities. We also want a faster rate of expansion for new prisons in the Prison Service. I would like to remind you that the Stortinget has decided to build a new prison in the Eastern region, in Eastfold. Unfortunately, this process is going very slowly. And we regret the Ministry's reasons for following normal construction procedures. In the opinion of the Progress Party, a rapid start to the construction project is urgently needed to complete this prison. There is a significant difference between the priorities of the government parties and their new budgetary friends from the Labour Party versus the Progress Party. The Norwegian people should note that from the year 2000, they will set up a foreign student at a preliminary cost of 30 million. kr annually. The following is intended to be a Board of Appeal for asylum seekers and other non-residents, thus providing them with special legal protection in the Kingdom of Norway, which Norwegian citizens do not have. This term becomes highly resource-intensive when setting up a Director's Office, 16 members of the Board of Directors and a Secretariat. In addition, lawyers, interpreters and commentators are engaged with enormous costs in the long term. The foreign student will in fact consist of 101 annual works and a total of 600 members, who are to be appointed for four years at a time, i.e. a permanent arrangement. Such a system, together with other special schemes, leads to the creation of special rights for foreigners and foreign cultures.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1143	It is with pleasure that I record the committee's willingness to take a closer look at the need and usefulness of a separate helicopter service in the police. It decided on 5 November 1996 to launch a pilot project of helicopter service in the police department. In the response to the Stortinget following the completion of the trial project, preventive experience is not emphasised. Similarly, the value of standby is not included in the department's assessment. Several tragic events in the last year have updated the use of their own helicopter in the police, most recently the much-mentioned accident on the Ringway in Oslo, where a young mother was killed. Once again, a police hunt with a car has ended in an accident. He who was responsible for the accident by driving towards the direction of the road for several kilometers, owes to the police. The police are often exposed to the ‘indispensable’ tasks to be solved in seconds and under very strong pressure. It is easy to criticise the choice of solutions by the police when the tragedy occurs. I allow myself to remind myself that most of the tasks the police are facing are satisfactorily solved, without us reading about it in the newspapers. For 17 months until 1 May this year, the police had a very good tool in preventing traffic safety through their own police helicopter. It was hired private helicopter, manned by the police's own crews, well equipped and prepared for very many situations that might arise. The police helicopter contributed during the probationary period to save human lives. The number of serious road accidents that were prevented by being visible along the major roads of the Oslo area is difficult to establish, for the simple reason that they were never registered. Experience from Sweden, which has had its own helicopter service in the police since 1963, shows that the use of one helicopter in traffic monitoring is just as good as several dozen police cars to create the same preventive effect. Unfortunately, the position of the Ministry of Justice on the project was very negative from the beginning. No funds were found to continue the system of their own helicopter in the police department after 1 May this year. On the other hand, the police helicopter project mentioned, which the Ministry of Justice has not highlighted in its report to the Stortinget, is the value of preparedness. When such car chases as the one I mentioned at the outset start, all experience from abroad shows that the use of helicopters instead of the use of a police car in search of escapes significantly reduces the risk of accidents. From police sources, I have been told that this fatal accident could have been avoided if the police had had access to their own helicopter during that period. That is why I am pleased to read the budget position of the Justice Committee to the Stortinget. A unanimous committee asks the Department to review the dietary benefit of its own helicopter service in the police department. I expect a quick response to Stortinget. If we're going to get the zero vision if no one killed or seriously injured in traffic, we're going to have to use all the available tools. The size meets a new review of the test project where useful values are made visible. There seems to be a lot of arguments now to establish a separate helicopter service in the police department.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1156	There is a serious backlog for people's legal certainty in this country when several things now indicate that the Eastern European and Russian Mafia are in the process of becoming completely entrenched here in Norway. I also refer to what my party colleague, Jan Simonsen, mentioned in his main post about the Grimstad man who is now under threat of the life of torpedoes. I would like to point out that the problem of criminal torpedoing and regular money extortion seems to be becoming a very profitable business for ruthless and brutal foreign money collectors here in the country. So among the methods that members of these torpedo communities use to collect money is to pose threats of mutilation and liquidation of their victims. The worst thing is that these threats are also directed at the victim’s family, wife, and child. In the Agderpost for today, we can see on the front page a company manager in Grimstad who, together with his family, had to go to cover for torpedoes. These foreign torpedoes have presented the most serious threats, both to the family of this person and to himself. After the torpedoes were apprehended in a large-scale police action at the businessman's company in Grimstad on Wednesday, they were thus released the day after and continue to present their threats. Furthermore, we can see in the paper that «Torpedo threatens revenge» and «Torpedo sighted for killing threats». They also promise that when they go free, he will not sleep well at night, that he can expect more discomfort and that he will pay anyway. Finally, the torpedoes obviously threaten to come back. Nevertheless, these torpedoes, having presented their threats in all publicity, may, after release, move freely from Grimstad in their new, crude-fleet Mercedess and set the course towards Oslo to continue their business there. So this is Norway in 1999, and the Progress Party expects the Minister of Justice to do something to stop this and the ghastly developments that we are now witnessing. I believe that this businessman and others who had to be exposed to the same situation have a clear need for specific police protection. I hope the Minister of Justice will now take a special look at the situation I am describing here – and we have to expect that there may be more such situations in the future – and propose that something be done to protect those people extra. At the same time, he should look at the debt collection system, which these environments operate with. I know something is going on here, but something should happen quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1165	The Minister of Justice said in his speech that the most important thing for this government is to ensure security of life and health. So far, it is clear that the government has failed. When businessmen give in to blackmail because you're not sure that the police can provide the necessary protection against Yugoslav torpedoes, people don't feel safe. When a businessman in Grimstad has to go to cover because the local police room says it has no resources to guarantee 24-hour security, but has to limit the guard around the dwelling to driving rounds at night with the police car, people don't feel safe. And how can we feel safe when the Oslo police say it's impossible to move out on a mission to help someone who's in need, to do active research, because 1 1⁄2 hour is too little time to prepare? I only have this simple question to the Minister of Justice, and he can easily give me an answer that I am very pleased with: In this one big but at the same time small matter in the sense that it is a single matter, but it is great and serious for those concerned, can the Minister of Justice guarantee that the Grimstad police can now use all the financial resources necessary to ensure the life and health of this businessman, his family and his workmates, without getting any criticism of budget exceedances? I'm just waiting for a simple, little yes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1172	It's probably democracy at its strongest when we put the budgetary questions in the open hall based on a single thing, and I'm going to take it as it is. We make sure that criminals are taken where they are, and I'll look at this case and have it reviewed, so that these torpedoes can't be left alone. The aspects of protection for the human being concerned shall also be followed up. What a practical police operation it is, I think the representative will leave to me as responsible for the police to look at. So I would like to say that if the point was to get me to act, one could also achieve it by a phone to me, in the sense that I am very well known for dealing with organized crime, and because I also run a police force that has the ability to do so. So if that was the intention, you could do it another way. If the intention was to give one example of something we don't accept, it's brilliant. If this was an attempt to draw an example of that in general, and to generalize, I can't accept it. I cannot accept it as a description of my position, of the Government's position or of the Storting's position. But the good pedagogy I take in the name of democracy. You can expect me to review the case, because I hate organized crime, I hate its being, and I hate the threats behind it. I feel so free to say that our prime minister needs no adult education. The Prime Minister, like all other people, must assume that those who meet him are proper. If it turns out that someone is pretty enough to trick a human being, you'll learn from it afterwards. I myself have been exposed to episodes – I will not go into it in detail. Some of these environments have a frowning gift that is well-developed. One shall have good radar from time to time to capture them, in addition to good knowledge. I have some radar, and I can assure you that the Prime Minister also has it in rich monn. That's what I think he has marked on the first side of the Evening Post today, and I want to use words as a gift of fear when trying to enter a prime minister at an event against violent crime. So I would say, part of the effort to combat crime is also about the police surveillance service, which is important. It is very important, among other things: in matters of right-wing extremities, and the Storting must have no other basis than that of this Council of State and the Government. I believe that with a good conscience I could move to the 47 posts, but we have never thought anything but that the police surveillance service should be important. I have expressed this at the latest in the debate on the EOS Committee here in the Chamber, and it has been our obvious line that all the changes are coming to the Stortinget, and the two natural occasions are the police law and police communication. It has been expressed by the Committee – there is no contradiction between the Storting, the Committee and the undersigned. We like to think about it: we need an effective service. If it feels that it has been reinstated because of the settlement of the past, it should not feel it in any way with this Minister of Justice and with this government and with what the Storting has expressed. One can straighten his back and go out and take the criminals and the hard-boiled where necessary. Because that's what it takes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1183	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 863]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1191	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1198	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Mr Kleppe on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1489	There is an alternative proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1877	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Kristin Krohn Devold on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 3, by Jan Simonsen on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of The President will propose that a vote be taken first on the minority proposal which is independent of the budgetary framework, namely proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, to B, and then the proposals are voted on. 1 and 2 by the Party of Progress and the Right, then by proposal No. 3 from the Progress Party, to A, and finally, alternative votes are taken between the Committee's position and proposal No. Four, from the right. No objection has come to this, and that's how we go about it. Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, to B, is taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1920	It is then voted on the proposals of the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to dispose of 20 million. crowns on cap. 440 item 01 Operating costs from earmarked environmental measures to police free means of operation. ‘... Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for the repeal of the provisional law of 17 September 1999 on limited transparency of surveillance police archives and registers [[transparency law]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e1939	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, to A. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e6088	There is an aberrant proposal from the Right, proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-03.ana.ud2409e8208	There is no record.
