ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e26	The President will recall that the speakers who are given the floor under case No. One has a speaking time limited to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e29	I want to answer the representative Einar Olav Skogholt's question about the follow-up of the 13 proposals on the drug field. 12 of the proposals were submitted to the Government in June. Several of the proposals supported initiatives already taken by the Minister for Social Affairs. In Document No: 7A for 1999-2000, the Government's letter to the Stortinget of 30 September, led to announcements from the Government of all the proposals. I am also pleased with the broad support of this draft budget for increased efforts by drug addicts. In addition to the methadone, buprenorphine and the traditional drug-free supply, let me add the following additional supplements: On 1 March last year, we set out a strengthening plan for the social offices, ‘Knowledge and bridal construction’. On next year's budget, there's 28 million. kr. It is such that it is very well received and implies that the individual who is assigned to a social office has a professional forum in his or her own country in which he or she can participate. In this plan, the focus is on drug users and likeins to attract relatives. The action plan for the reduction of drug use allows for post-protection measures in municipalities. The roadmap for mental health will help more people to deal with their problem, and it is often the case that these are people who have both a drug problem and a mental problem. So it's going to mean a lot. In the next year’s budget, there is also the means to follow-up with close-up for particularly difficult-to-use people in some municipalities. In the spring, I took the initiative to allow funds for health services, low-threshold services, to the municipalities that had the most reported overdose deaths in 1998. These measures will be passed on and strengthened in 2000, and twelve municipalities have now either started or will do so before the end of the year. When efforts against drug users are more than double in a few years, it is quite clear that it is important to intensify prevention work. Then it is a pleasure for me to announce that in the seven positions that centre of competence was created in the budget this year, and that should just be a lever for prevention towards municipalities, educational staff and health professionals, enthusiastic and committed professionals have now been added, and this is well received.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e42	For the part of the protocol, I would like to stress that the Labour Party expects the Minister of Health to return to Stortinget early in 2000 and to explain the situation at our hospitals, and that he is also doing the right thing for the appropriations needed to achieve the objective of an activity growth of 2 p.m. at our hospitals from this year to next year, as he himself has warned. So to the representative Annelise Höegh, who was surprised that the Workers' Party did not immediately make even greater contributions to the local economy than the extra billion we put in at the budget conciliation. Firstly, I would like to reiterate that it is the government's duty to provide an adequate basis for decision-making for the Storting. From the Labour Party, we had considerable confidence in the Council of State, and so it must be. However, what is quite interesting in the light of the contributions of the representative, Höegh, is her own comments on the Evening Post on 7 December: ‘It is very difficult to get a good overview of hospitals’ finances. I agree with Ap. in that there is a big gap in how the hospital owners and the health minister describe the situation in the country’s hospital. "We can't have it like that," said Anne Lise Høegh." I assume that the representative, Høegh, does not expect the Labour Party to put serious numbers on the table during a hectic negotiation phase, a figure that we have heard today that the Minister of Health, with his enormous apparatus, actually thinks he needs several months to get ahead of the Stortinget. The representative of Høegh also had several critical comments on the agreement between the State and the South-Trondelag County of the RIT 2000. We can all agree that there may be a need for adjustments when the implementation phase is 15 years old, but at least long-term planning is better than what we have now witnessed with the Rikshospitale, with constant delays and high additional costs that the state pays on its own account. Is it perhaps that the Right likes to bet in the districts, that it is now going to be spent between 7 and 8 billion kroner on the South Trendelag, and that the cash flow is going in the wrong direction on the Right? We've noticed that the Right voted against increasing the capacity of medical training in Trondheim in connection with the dimensioning message, but the RIT 2000 project actually adds to an increase in the admission of medical students in Trondheim, to great joy for that district.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e58	Some brief comments on some attacks on the Progress Party at the end of the debate. First, I will be allowed to reply to the representative Gunhild Øyang: It was also agreed for the Workers' Party to obtain information about the hospitals' finances. I did it. In four days I had the numbers on the table from the respective county councils, and I have no reason to believe that the numbers are wrong. So to the representative Ola D. Gløtvold, who thought we were little concerned with municipal psychiatry, and that I should have claimed that there was not a shortage of staff who were the problem in municipal psychiatry, but a lack of resources. I'm stuck with it. I have been in contact with quite a number of municipalities, which say straight away that it is not difficult to get staff for municipal psychiatry, but that there are no resources to do anything. The Progress Party has invested 100 million in its alternative budget. Just to the community psychiatry, the so-called hidden reform, which came headlong in the municipalities. As far as child and youth psychiatry is concerned, it is a misunderstanding of Joy to believe that it is a municipal responsibility. It's a county responsibility, where we've also added 50 million. kr. So, to the representative Karin Andersen, who was inside and made a pre-arranged post. It showed how dangerous it could be to go into a debate without hearing the debate in advance. The Progress Party and I were accused of not taking responsibility for the health services in the counties. If the representative had been present when I kept my main post, she would have heard that I just pointed out that it is the majority of the Stortinge at any time that is responsible for the health care resources, and that must also be responsible for the long health cows. Then I have a question for the Social Minister. We are now familiar with the fact that the State Health Authority has initiated what I would call a ‘purse’ against general practitioners who print, for example, Subutex to drug addicts. They are now blacklisted and threatened to lose their licence if they do not stop prescribing such products. These are responsible doctors who take their medical practices seriously and who also have an auxiliaries and a support device for their patients. If it happens now that they have to stop printing these drugs, we get the problem that a significant proportion of these people just die. Do we dare take responsibility for this? I would recommend to the Minister of Social Affairs to go to the Health Service and draw attention to this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e73	Pensioners and others are concerned about the underregulation of the basic amount. An underregulation has happened several times since the introduction of popular security in 1967. It seems that one has forgotten or disregarded the assumption that pensioners should have a percentage of the same development in their pension as employed persons in their real wages. Indeed, the guidelines for the size adjustment of the basic amount are based on the principle of equal development of the basic amount in relation to the wages and salaries of the economically active. But according to figures from the Statistical Central Bureau, the real value of the basic amount has increased by only 24 pst. from 1967 to 1998. At the time of the population's return in 1967, it was assumed that people with middle income and full earning time would receive a pension of 66 pst. of their labour income. This negative development is, in fact, a threat to the system of popular protection. In dealing with social security in the spring of 1999, a majority expressed this fact. The majority required stricter guidelines to prevent future underregulation. The majority of the majority of the population also adopted an opinion asking the Government to propose new guidelines for the regulation of the basic amount. In order to avoid under-regulation of the basic amount, it must be made clear in the guidelines that pensioners with a retirement pension must have income developments in line with those of the active population, rather than ‘in line with’, to which several other representatives have also been present today. Prerequisites should be clear, framework conditions should be clear, and clear rules should be laid down in the guidelines for the regulation of the basic amount. This development must be brought to an end, which is in the process of destroying the principles of popular security.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e82	I asked for the word after having heard Synnove Konglevoll's contribution concerning the public dental service. Both I and SV fully agree that the developments seen in public dentistry are very worrying, and that there is a need to take a boost to get something done about it. I think it is necessary to use completely different instruments than they have now, and look at similar solutions that have been used in the community health service for operating grants in combination with public tasks. Synnøve Konglevoll also raised the question of setting up dental training in Tromsø, for which SV is and will support the establishment. However, what I think is a little alarming, is that when SV took up a proposal in connection with committee treatment, which reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate ways of recruiting and stabilising public dental services and to refer the matter to the Storting as its own case’; did not join the Working Party. Happily, both the Right Party and the Advance Party did so. But precisely on the basis of the kind of considerations that Konglevoll brought here earlier, it would be quite reasonable and it should have been quite unproblematic that the Workers' Party had also joined, so that the proposal had received a majority. Public dental services need to be lifted and measures taken. I've been involved in this before with the hospitals, and it's, as I said, joyous that you get an overall committee here and a total expansion to bet on the further development of these where you have these. In addition, SV has a proposal that says you should have looked at models for this in other municipalities. Based on the signals that I perceive here in the Chamber, it may be relevant in a longer-term perspective, and in that context, I do not think it reasonable for the proposal to be voted down. I therefore ask that the proposal be converted into a transmission proposal. Otherwise, I would like to point out a small matter that has not been mentioned. Several parties, of which the Progress Party – I think it is right to draw up – have been concerned with the condition of the war pensioners. In the committee, all the parties have agreed to pay full war pension for the entire group of those who currently have a partial war pension. It's also a pleasure. We've been busy with that group, and we hope it finds its final solution. Finally, I would like to highlight what has been said about increased excesses. The cost of ensuring that there had not been increased excesses was 150 million, and SV has put it into its alternative budget, which has exactly the same framework as the others. I find it regrettable that, year after year, from different parties, we are calling for an increase, but the same parties are still voting for it. I hope we don't get any repetition exercises at the same time when we come back to the consideration of the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e100	In an article earlier, I addressed the critical situation at the intensive care unit in the Rikshospitalet. As I mentioned, sectional supervisor Per Børdahl described at the maternity ward the situation as so serious that children's lives are in danger, and that they are afraid that there may be a disaster. The capacity of all hospitals with an intensive Newborn Unit in the East has been detonated, and the consequence is that the Rikshospital in the weekend chose to send a woman with a high risk of premature birth to Örebro in Sweden. Another birth has been sent to another hospital in this country for the safety of the child, and the situation is still precarious. It's per. No departments are currently able to take patients from the Rikshospital if intensive treatment of newborns is required. Therefore, it is reassuring that the Minister of Health in his reply to my statement indicates that he has now asked for an explanation of the situation and an assessment of what measures can be taken to improve the situation. As the Minister of Health was in it, it affects more hospitals than the Rikshospitalet, and I am also pleased that he has asked the State Health Authority and the county doctors to provide an overview of the serious situation of the intensive care units for newborns. I am also pleased that the Minister of Health reacted so quickly, and that the Department will now look at the necessary measures to re-establish a sound situation in our intensive departments. As section supervisor Ruud Hansen at the newborn section of the Rikshospitale also points out, the consequences are that this difficult situation is not only a threat to the life and health of the newborn but also to pregnant women with complications or threatening premature birth. When they are now at risk of being sent out of the country, far from the nearest family, it makes the situation even more difficult. I expect the Stortinget to be kept informed about the development. With regard to the move to New Rikshospital, it was reassuring to hear from the Minister of Health that the objective of moving in before the summer holiday is maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e115	I heard with some wonder the head of the Social Committee describe it as if the Right were conducting a kind of health policy eradication war against at least one of the Trondelags. It must be a considerable exaggeration. In any case, the justification given by the head of the Social Committee was based on a manifest error reading of the position of the Church, Education and Research Committee on the dimensioning of higher education. It is not right that the Right has gone against increasing the recording, either in Trondheim or at any other medical faculty. On the other hand, the Right has allowed itself to point out that there has been a rather dramatic change in Norwegian students abroad who have started the medical study in Poland and Hungary. There are between 700 and 800 such students per. today. With that in mind, we have asked the Ministry to come back to the Stortinget with an overview and an assessment of the need for access to new medical candidates for the next 10-15 years, and then to make the necessary concrete proposals for stepping up the recording capacity of the Norwegian educational institutions. Producing this as if the right has opposed an increase in the capacity of the Norwegian educational institutions is directly misleading.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e122	I told the Health Minister before we went to today's evening meeting that there was a lot more to provoke me to make another post. But I get to say like Gunhild Eyering, that for the sake of the protocol I would like to have mentioned a few things, and the lead is the post she just made. After all, Inge Wohnung took the most important part in relation to RIT 2000. It is a dry piece to claim that the Right would be against sending money northwards, from the Oslo area, as Gunhild Eyeyang almost hurt to say. Wages are in, what's the name of the committee he's in, the church, education and research committee, isn't that what it's called? I've been here for so long, and that committee has had so many names. As far as the position of the Social Committee is concerned, I must, in fact, remind the Vice-President of the Committee, Eyeågen, that the Committee's comments – which are, at least for a large part, written by the rapporteur, who is actually myself – just underline that we are joining and agree that it is necessary to build a new Regional Hospital for the Mid-Norway Health Region. So saying that the Right shouldn't be interested in this is directly to misinform. It's not in the pact with what's actually all the games behind in the setting. But what surprises me is that both the Gunhild Eye and the majority representatives do not see the dangers involved in the strategy they have chosen to build this regional hospital, precisely from the scandalous experience we have with the construction of the new Rikshospital, which was intended to be implemented and completed much faster. How can you believe that you can look into the future, 15 years ahead, and believe that we have some overview and some good way to build a hospital, know how to dimension it, what professionals, what offers, what equipment you need 15 years into time, even if some projects are to be completed along the way? There's enough of this to exceedances in the billions class, which will put the Rikshospital in the shadow of the exceedances. As for the situation at the hospitals, I insist on what I said to the evening post, and have also said since then, that the situation that has arisen is serious, the growing mistrust and the crisis of confidence that has existed between the health minister and both the county councils and, in part, the Stortinget. Fortunately, however, some of this has been added today, with contributions from all parties, I would say. But I understand that the Workers' Party is becoming annoyed that their attack on the Minister of Health is being revealed as a partially due attack on their own dealers, because it was obvious to all of us that health was not a priority in the negotiations of the Workers' Party. In that case they must have been able to come further and e.g. have supported the proposals made by the Right in addition to those supported by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e133	The representative of Violent Violence has spoken twice before, and gets the word for a short remark limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e137	I must say that I am a little shaken by the representative, Höegh, when she says that the RIT 2000 is going to be a deficit affair that puts the Rikshospital's numbers in the shadow. That, I think, is a bad prognosis to go along with by a staging representative. At least one should then have clear comments and objections on how this should be done in relation to what has now been proposed. I think that then there will have to be much more concrete and concise remarks. And I'm assuming that what was said about that very relationship right now, maybe has to be the biggest challenge for those responsible for RIT 2000 to do a better job than what's been done with the Rikshospitale. So to Alvheim and psych professionals. I have not referred to Alvheim, but quoted from the comments of the Progress Party in the setting, where it says: ‘... these members believe that, in particular, the psychiatry in the municipalities has sufficient professionals.’ That's what I've been getting at. As far as child and youth psychiatry is concerned, I am aware that it belongs to the 2nd line service, but in terms of prevention and after-care, we also need specialists for that part of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e151	The representative Eyeågen has also spoken twice, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e154	I have received the so-called dimensionalization message and the attitude of the Education Committee, and there is a very crystal clear proposal from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, where neither the Right nor the Progress Party are as proponents, which reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose measures to increase the capacity of medical training and to place the new places of study in Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø.’ I guess it can't be much clearer. And my acquaintance has not voted in favour of this proposal, but against it. If the Right against Presumption has voted in favour of this proposal, I would like to have it confirmed here. But so far it's unknown to me.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e164	The representative Annelise Höegh is also given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e167	My short line now goes to Ola D. Incense. Pay will take care of the eye. Lukewarm called for comments and suggestions that would fit the words I had, and critical comments on the strategy chosen for the development of the RIT 2000. He must have read the position poorly if he has not noticed that we have both comments and proposals that are just grasping what we consider to be the most critical, and it is not that the county council – as long as we have county municipalities – should have building block responsibility, it must have. But we don't want the county council or local forces to have the project responsibility. That is why we are promoting the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the project responsibility for the development of the RIT 2000 is entrusted to Norwegian or international actors experienced in similar construction projects.’ That's what we think would be wise of the whole Storting. Then you might want to avoid something that looks like the Rikshospital, we've seen what the result looks like to be there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e179	I was injured in my intervention to promote the committee's Vice-Chairman as leader. It wasn't intended, it was of pure insanity. It's not going to repeat itself. To the representative of the eye: what she read is correct, but she has obviously read nothing but the Labour Party's proposal in this setting. She has therefore been injured to draw the short conclusion that those who do not support the Workers' Party's proposal are against increasing the recording capacity. If she had taken the time to read the alternative proposal made by the Progress Party and the Right, she would have seen that the difference between the two proposals is that we are asking for the premise before the conclusion, while the Workers' Party wants to go straight to the conclusion without premise. It is quite pointless to interpret this to the point that the Progress Party and the Right are against an escalation of capacity, be it in Trondheim, in Bergen or in Tromsø. I repeat: it is a directly misleading presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e186	Self-esteem in healthcare is not popular. That's understandable. In particular, chronically ill people with an ever-need for health care are under stress. In the case of these, it will be the ceiling for principal proportions, and it is known to be no more than the equivalent of the price rise this year, and hardly so. It is the height of the roof that is crucial, and the rule of which services go under the roof. That's why it's important to investigate a roof 2, which is now in the process. The representative, Nesvik, suggests in his statement that the government parties and the Workers' Party, because a person maintains excesses, want sick people to pay extra taxes because they are ill. I respect the fact that the Progress Party is against propensity. We should all want to avoid that. As far as I can see from a reading of the budget, the Progress Party is reducing the balance by a total of 85 million. kr. They want Aricept on blue prescription, it costs 50 million. kr, they will abolish the reference price system, it costs 110 million. NOK – a total of 245 million. kr for the benefit of some of the sick. At the same time, the Advance Party will reduce the sick pay by approximately. a quarter, i.e. in the order of 4 385 million. kr. Now this applies initially to healthy people who are then ill-appointed. But many have been sickly reported for a long time, and some often, so also the budget solutions of the Progress Party will have a financial impact on the sick – if the Progress Party does not believe that those who receive sick pay are not ill. Then I would like to ask for an answer to the representative Ballo's question. The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right claim that international studies indicate that Norway is among the countries where there is least knowledge of biotechnology and the greatest scepticism. I would like to see the international studies that show this connection between little knowledge and great scepticism. My experience in different areas is on the contrary that there needs to be some knowledge to have a healthy scepticism, and that little knowledge is perhaps more often associated with credulity and naivety.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e197	Olav Gunnar Ballo has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e200	We're in the protocol phase, and that's exactly the point that Are Næss made here. I asked the question initially in the debate, and so there are none of the three parties that have at all been able to substantiate the claim there. In addition, I just want to add: I think the comparison that Annelise Höegh draws between the Regional Hospital in Trondheim, RIT 2000, and the Rikshospitalet falls on its own unreasonableness. It is difficult to characterize the construction of the Rikshospitale as something other than a scandal – it must be opaque. But the fact that in a design phase, in an investigation phase, to go over a long period of time, you realize that it's actually going to be more expensive than initially assumed is an honest approach. That's exactly what's been wrong with the Rikshospitalet, that you haven't seen at a much earlier point in time that you get costs that you wouldn't have taken in. It's an unreasonable comparison, and I don't fully understand the logic of it either.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e207	The leader of the committee had a question for me. Let me inform you that the Health Minister and I have jointly looked at the searchlight on today's prescription practice of drugs for rehabilitation to drug users. A draft amendment to the regulation on the requisition and supply of medicinal products by pharmacies is out of the question. The objective is twofold: to ensure the follow-up necessary in addition to a drug for each drug user, and to prevent the diversion of addictive medicinal products on the illicit market. Messages from e.g. Vestfold, the fact that 12-year-old girls are offered addictive medicines, means that there is a need to take a closer look at the prescription practice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e212	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1360]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e226	As the case-rapporteur in such a controversial case as this, the question of giving a blue prescription to the Alzheimer’s drug Aricept, it is gratifying to be able to refer to unanimous committee comments and unanimous agreement to the Ministry’s proposal to make contributions to the expenses of Alzheimer’s medicines under the People’s Rights Act §5-22. When most European countries gradually grant different forms of reimbursement to patients suffering from Alzheimer’s disease, it would also be lacking if Norway were not among them. We owe it to the patients. I also think that we should be honest enough to admit that without the proposal of Nesvik, Alvheim and Vaksdal – Document No. 8:4 – I guess we wouldn’t have come to where we came today. There are not drugs that can slow down, stop or cure the development of Alzheimer's, but Aricept, and perhaps also other drugs that have come and will probably also come on the market, can alleviate the symptoms of patients with mild to moderate disease. The problem is that the effect is relatively short-lived, at least as the study shows for the time being, and that it may be difficult to identify which patients might benefit from the drug. However, the Committee considers that it is important that patients who can benefit from such treatment be reimbursed the most significant of the costs, as the ministry now suggests. The Committee also stresses that if new studies demonstrate a better effect of the medicinal product than the studies previously and previously controlled have done, we ask the Ministry to come back and re-evaluate the question of the blue prescription for this and similar medicinal products. Finally, I would just like to stress that since Aricept and similar medicines are very expensive, the committee joins that department now also suggests in the Appendix to the budget proposal, namely that patients should only have to pay the excess, while the pharmacies clean up – I would say – in relation to the Riksstrøgdeverket. With these few, but hopefully well-chosen words, I recommend the Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e243	On 20 October 1998, Mr Alvheim, Mr Voksdal and myself, the representatives of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, promoted the document No. The 8th proposal under consideration today. The starting point of the proposal was to ensure that the medicinal product Aricept and its related medicinal products for Alzheimer’s disease come under the blue prescription system. Today, there are more than 50,000 demented patients in Norway. One estimates that approx. 7 000 receive this diagnosis annually. Alzheimer’s disease accounts for approx. 55-60 pst. of this group. The medicinal product Aricept has been primarily used in mild and moderate cases of the disease, since it has been shown to be the most effective in this group. The reason why this proposal was put forward is that it seems unreasonable that a patient affected by Alzheimer’s not only be confronted with problems related to the disease itself but also be subjected to additional stress when it appears that the cost of making use of this product becomes so great that he simply has to choose between food and medicine. The fact that Aricept or similar preparations are not included in the blue prescription list gives us a situation where it is the economic situation of the individual that is crucial for whether or not to make use of the drug. What the drug has been shown to do is to expose this terrible disease over a certain number of weeks. I'm sorry it's a per. at present there is no way to cure this disease. In this respect, it is all the more important for both the patient and his/her family to make use of a drug that can at least delay the problems, so that one can get the best possible weeks and years in his/her life, regardless of the individual’s financial situation. In this case, several letters from the Ministry have shown that on the basis of the evidence available, the health effect is not good enough. That the product Aricept has a health effect for some patients, there is no reason to question this because this product has been authorised for marketing in Norway and is therefore authorised by existing agencies. What's sad is that in all the analyses of economic effects on society, you might forget what's most important, at least to me, the individual being affected by this terrible disease, and its relatives. It has not even been possible to apply for reimbursement in accordance with § 5-22 of the People's Security Act, but as a result of this proposal made by the representatives of the Progress Party, the Ministry of St.prp has. No 1 Appendix No 4 for 1999-2000 re-assessed whether to give a blue prescription for Aricept. It is gratifying to note that it is now concluded that contributions can be made under § 5-22. This means that the patient can cover two thirds of the costs of treatment. It would have been desirable, as the Progress Party sees it, that Aricept entered the ordinary bladder recipe list. But this is a step in the right direction. It is also important to note that a unanimous committee agrees that it is the pharmacy that takes over the patient’s claim to the Rikstrygdeverket, so that the patient only pays the proportion. Finally, I will be allowed to thank the Minister of Health and the Government for having now gone to the step of recommending coverage according to section 5-22.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e262	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1395]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e276	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Benn Mikalsen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e287	As the rapporteur, I have to say on behalf of the Committee that there have been few comments on the amendments under the individual chapters of the proposal. The issues which characterise the position are the briefing given by the Ministry on the specific authorization for the preparation of beer for self-production and the additional proposals under Chapter. 730, to which it has been allocated, so that the total additional allocation of 254 million. kr comes under this chapter. I come back to these matters, but I think it is first necessary to refer to the Committee's few comments on the amendments in the proposal. An overall committee notes that the number of clients at the State Drug Clinic has been lower than foreseen. The Committee would stress the importance of maximising the capacity for the treatment of drug addicts and would ask the Ministry to consider measures to improve the use of resources. The Committee has also noted that the increase in contractual pension – the AFP scheme – is slightly lower than the budget for which it was budgeted. However, there is reason to note that during the period January–August 1999, there has been an increase of 16.3 pst. in relation to the same period last year. The Committee agrees that grants to care services will be made transferable from 1999 onwards, so that grants under the elderly care action plan can be paid once the capacity increase has been achieved, even if this is not achieved until 2000. The Committee also agrees with the provision of additional appropriations under the heading. 710 in order to build up an emergency stock of vaccines in the context of the pediatric vaccination programme. There are some minority comments on a few of these issues, and I expect those who are behind them, possibly even explaining their point of view. As rapporteur of the case, I think it is very gratifying to be able to establish that there is a majority in favour of an extra allocation under the heading. 730 County health services of 254 million. kr. On the part of the government fraction, the partners in both the current and next year’s budgetary settlements were taken into account if an additional allocation as proposed in this setting could be found here. Both the Right and the Labour Party support the proposal, while the Progress Party and the SV have their own proposals for funding. The majority, made up of the Workers' Party, the Right and the Government Parties, state in the vote that, in addition to the leadership of the respective budgetary observations of these parties, see: Budget-in-one. S. No 11, they consider it appropriate to carry out an ‘additional strengthening of the hospital economy already in the current year’ pending the announced broad review that the Government has signaled will come in the new year. The majority, in consultation with the Government, consider making a price adjustment to the regional hospital allowance, so that an adjustment for the years 1998 and 1999 together increases the regional hospital allowance by 97 million. kr for the current year. Furthermore, in consultation with the Government, the majority would like to make an additional allocation to the hospitals of the county municipalities as hospital owners, so that the increase in activity that has taken place in 1999 is compensated. An activity increase from 0.75 pst. to 3 pst. is 157 million. kr, which will be allocated to county councils according to the criteria of the income system. I think it's a nice decision to grant us today by the fact that the hospital sector now has an increase of 254 million. kr before the end of the year. With regard to the issue of specific authorisation for the preparation of beer for self-discipline, a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Party of Progress and the Right is in favour of this becoming a regime to enter into force ‘as soon as possible’. It seems this is a serious, important matter that is urgent. It would have been desirable for other business-orientated and consumer-related issues to have had the same strong involvement. I notice this, and I think there's a reason to comment on it. The wording of the decision that the ‘must be a little bureaucratic’ system makes me think that the majority here might think a little too light on this matter. The minority of the Committee, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Centre, agree with the Ministry that such special funding should be considered in the context of the forthcoming evaluation of the system of government wholesale and manufacturing appropriations, and that one then is working on a system of appropriations for this purpose. We have also said that such a scheme should be linked to both serving and gift granting and limited to outsourcing on the spot where construction, serving and donation are to take place. We also believe that such a separate authorisation scheme, in accordance with what the Government says, should include local traditional drinks of the type of beer, wine and sides. We are looking forward to the matter being referred to us when the other authorization issues are addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e329	The government is proposing a net increase of 478 million in expenditure. kr, the revenue is proposed to increase by a total of 26,5 million. kr. Within the drug field, there are millions of savings. I am surprised at the savings in this area, as there is a screaming need for the treatment of drug addicts. This is particularly true of the State Narcotic Clinic. The Committee then also asks the Ministry to consider measures to improve the use of resources. The Workers' Party and the Government's Parties also propose to increase the grants to regional hospitals and county health services by 85.5 million respectively. NOK 157 million. kr. The main responsibility of the 1999 budget lies with the Right, the Advance Party and the Government Parties. It is very unusual for the Storting to contribute money to the county municipalities before the budget year is over and the accounts are known. It is also very unusual that an amount is proposed without justification from government documents. This time the committee was presented with a number directly above the table during the committee's proceedings. This is, of course, an unsatisfactory procedure. However, since the needs of hospitals appear to be obvious, the Labour Party will participate in such a process and support the amount of government through its committee members. Int. O. No 59 for 1996-97, the minority in the Social Committee, the representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party, wished to extend the exemption from the requirement to grant the production of beer and wine for their own use to cover the rendition of their own holdings. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left, did not agree to this, but asked the Government to investigate the matter more thoroughly in order to describe and design an authorisation scheme. The majority of the Committee was concerned with the relaxation of the production authorisation requirement for those who want to produce beer for distribution in their own activities. Two or three years after the Committee's submission of its observations and proposals, the matter is referred back to the Stortinget. However, the Government does not at this stage wish to propose a simplified authorisation system for the production of beer for sowing in its own holding. The Committee majority, consisting of the representatives of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right, do not want any further postponement of the matter, as the representatives of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left want. The majority believe that such a separate authorisation scheme should be linked to both the provision of food and the provision of services. Furthermore, it shall be limited to serving in places where the production, serving and donation are to be done, and shall include local traditional drinks of beer, wine and sides. The majority emphasise that the scheme should be low in red tape and be at an acceptable cost level. The reason why the majority do so is that today there are also opportunities to obtain such a grant, but it is very expensive and time consuming to get for the applicant. I note that the representatives of the Central Party and the Socialist Left want a further postponement before possibly proposing such a separate authorisation scheme. I understand that the representative of the Central Party finds it difficult to go against the proposal of its own Council of State, but I am surprised that the representative of the Socialist Left does not want the matter to be dealt with today. Finally, let me point out a typographical error in III of the proposal for a decision. The word ‘used’ in the first line is replaced by ‘linked’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e355	Although most of my contribution will focus on the hospital economy both in 1999 and 2000, I would ask the Minister of Social Affairs later in the debate to explain why the State Drug Clinic has not used its full capacity in 1999. I cannot understand, and I will not accept that public drug treatment agencies do not make full use of their full capacity when the need for drug treatment is as great as it is. Hundreds of these people are actually waiting for treatment. In fact, I assume that the Social Minister has for the longest time contacted the management of the State Drug Clinic and is already taking action to ensure that capacity is used for the future. So to the hospital situation: I do not understand the statements of the Workers' Party that one was not familiar with the economic situation of our hospitals before the budgetary agreement with the government parties. Nor do I share the criticism made by the Workers' Party against the Minister of Health that the Stortinget has not been informed of the serious economic situation that has built up in the public hospitals in 1999. In this context, I recall that in the spring of the dispute between the KS and the Ministry on the settlement of the 1998 input-based funding, it was said clearly and clearly both from the hospitals and from the KS that the economy in 1999 with the then rules for input-based financing would lead to a very difficult year of operation for hospitals. My criticism of the Health Minister and the Ministry of the Advance Party is that the Department has established a code of practice for the response-based funding for 1999 and for 2000, which, in my opinion, is contrary to the Stortinge's intentions when the input-based funding was adopted, namely that this funding mechanism should significantly increase production, have a simple and easily understandable regulatory framework, be predictable, and that hospitals through the ISF should be covered by 50 pst. of the actual cost of treatment. In this context, I recall that this year, in the context of the revised national budget, the Stortinget made a unanimous decision to hijack. 730 item 60, grants to the input-based funding, turns into an estimate allocation just so as not to create budgetary problems when expenditure is greater than assumed due to increased production. It is, in my view, a direct error when the Committee's note on page 5, column 1, is presented in such a way that the self-financing of county municipalities is due to the increased growth of activity which has created problems within the framework of hospitals set for 1999. The truth is, as I see it, that there is the legislation and non-payment to the county councils for the treatment carried out which is the main reason for the economic situation of hospitals brought up in 1999. I would also like to point out that the cooperation relations, as I see it, between the KS, the county municipalities, the hospitals and the department with regard to the ISF legislation have been extremely poor, and it is therefore important to restore confidence between the department and the county municipalities as soon as possible. I hope that the independent committee now proposed by the Ministry will contribute to a better climate of cooperation between the Ministry and the county councils in establishing a regulatory framework to cover the real costs to be covered by the ISF scheme. I do not think it is possible, as the Minister for Health points out, that transfers to hospitals in connection with the ISF funding are to be budget neutral. If that were true, yes, then we are back to the frame transfer on the way back. The input-based funding of 50 pst. must, at my discretion, cover the actual costs of the hospitals for treatment, including implants and highly expensive medicines. Where, despite the well-known economic situation of public hospitals with an expected deficit in 1999, the majority of the Committee will not grant additional funding of more than DKK 254 million. For 1999, it shows that the majority of the Grand Duchy does not take the hospitals and county councils seriously this time and assumes responsibility for ensuring that citizens of that country are treated within reasonable time limits. Therefore, with regard to the economic operating situation of hospitals for 2000, the Progress Party seems quite clear that if nothing is done, the problems will become serious. The Progress Party thus expects a review of the hospitals’ economy as soon as possible, and in particular the legislation on input funding, and the Government to return to the Stortinget in the revised national budget with proposals for the necessary allocation, so that the operational capacity of public hospitals can be maintained in 2000 as well as in the first day. Finally, I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e388	John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e391	I would like to refer to the rapporteur's presentation, to which, of course, I agree, but will briefly mention a big and a relatively small matter. The small issue is the proposal for a simplified authorisation system for the production of beer for self-production. The Ministry has not wanted to put in place such a simpler authorisation system, but is assessing the issues relating to the forthcoming evaluation of the system of state wholesale and power allocations. The Christian People's Party agrees with this position. However, I have recorded that the number of committees – the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right – has now extended the proposal to include wine and sides and does not want to see it in the context of the evaluation pointed out by the Ministry, but now makes a proposal, which will have a majority. The working party claims that it is important to reduce total alcohol consumption. In practice, more attention appears to be paid to increasing the availability of alcohol. The Christian People's Party will vote against this proposal. The big thing is, of course, the strengthening of the hospital economy for 1999 with a quarter of a billion dollars for which the government parties, in consultation with the Government and with the agreement of the Workers' Party and the Right, will today have a majority. Per. Today, it is difficult to get an overview of the reasons for the significant deficits in hospital budgets for 1999. The difficult hospital economy is a chronic state and, of course, is linked to the greater opportunities offered by medical advances for treatment that can be very costly, as well as greater demands for treatment and increased activity in the associated hospitals. It is therefore important to consider a detailed analysis of the causality of the hospital’s strenuous economy. Media continues to provide information on bottlenecks that cause increased waiting time at different levels in hospitals. These may have different reasons for both equipment and personnel. This needs to be thoroughly reviewed, as the Minister of Health has taken the initiative. Such a review will necessarily take some time, and we have to accept that. The most important thing is that the results provide a reliable basis for further action, and in this respect I agree with the chairman of the Committee earlier in the budget debate. I would also like to refer to the Minister of Health's contributions to that debate. But today there is a need for emergency care for the hospitals, and I am glad that an overall social committee will help.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e408	After a long budget debate in the morning meeting, I will not spend much time looking into the financial situation of hospitals and the criteria for effort-driven financing, but will only limit myself to expressing satisfaction that there is now a large majority to increase the appropriations for hospitals for the current year as well. What I was going to use the post for was to comment on the last part of the proposition, which is about this, which is called ‘Special authorisation for the preparation of beer for distillation in my own company’. I have to say that it was not so surprising that I discovered that the department had included this section in the bill, which is also about changes under some chapters of the 1999 government budget. Yes, it is so one might suspect that the department wanted the negative message they come with not to be noticed. Because it's a strange place to make such a statement. It seems to be so urgent, said the rapporteur, ironically, about the majority's proposals. Yes, perhaps the government parties see it as urgent that we think the government should have done with two, three, four years to investigate a relatively simple, and perhaps in the big context, little important area, but for my part I see it as a clear training from an unwilling social minister who does not want to allow this little decoration to the companies in District and Building Norway that can benefit from the opening that the majority now provides. I think that's particularly strange, considering that it comes from a government that claims to be particularly concerned with employment and industrial development in the districts. Since the majority really have very poor experience with the Minister of Social Affairs with regard to precisely these areas, we are taking it on our own. And with the reluctance of the Minister of Social Affairs to follow up majority remarks on both domestic and self-serving wine, it is not surprising that the majority has now learned from their poor experience and therefore promotes a proposal for a decision requiring the Government to implement the majority's view. And to wish the right good Christmas, we don't limit ourselves to beer, but we also take wine and sides. Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e419	St. Prop. No 13 for 1999-2000 contains a number of issues, but the debate here has made it clear that there are two major issues, the largest of which are obviously beer making in their own activities. I will focus my attention on the other matter that I think is essential, namely the economic situation of regional hospitals. Based on the numbers we've got on the table, in the short term, no one seems to be able to get away from extra appropriations. It is understandable that the Workers' Party, which was so high early in this case – one has not known, one has not known, etc., which we know is that they do not know – could expect increased appropriations and an initiative here to have a short term impact. But what you do is you put on what the government parties put on. SV promotes a proposal for an additional 600 million. NOK 300 million. SEK to regional hospitals and 300 million. kr to county councils, earmarked for other hospitals, in order to rehabilitate debt in the short term. However – and that is an important but – it is of course important to look at this in a longer-term perspective, so that you do not re-enter and re-enter the same situation. I think it is important to present the report that has come from the State Health Authority, which has been presented in the form of a press release on 9 December 1999, which includes: read: ‘Entrepreneurship solutions across health care levels, with a stronger involvement of municipal and county management, may seem essential...’» And it's Anne Alvik, the health director, who says that. Then the Health Authority comes up with a number of concrete measures. Among other things, it says: ‘Real health care centres in the municipalities may prevent a number of submissions and may allow some patients admitted to hospital to be discharged in the past.’ And on the other hand, ‘It is poor use of resources that patients who do not need to be in hospitals are still in hospitals when it would be both more appropriate and more reasonable to accommodate at a different level of care.’ This press release also highlights a lack of capacity, among other things. in medical departments, but it is clear that no one has been given the extent to which there is a shortage of capacity when you have initially too many patients inside hospitals who either should not have been there or who should have been out at a much earlier time. It must therefore be necessary to have long-term planning linked to the hospital economy, which results in a relief effect. In addition, I would point out to the committee leader that both increasing costs of very expensive drugs, and also implantation costs, lead to some kind of unforeseeableness for hospitals, which means that they get into an economic crisis. Especially in the case of medicines on blue prescription, there is currently a completely inappropriate difference in the case of patients to be treated outside the hospital and patients in hospitals, by the fact that those treated outside the hospital are covered by a bladder prescription scheme covered by the Rikstrøgdeverket, while the costs are covered by the hospital when they are in the hospital. In the case of cancer patients, there may be some unreasonable consequences by risking financial balances in the choice of medicinal products, where it is also important whether treatment is carried out in the municipality of origin or in hospitals. There's a kind of problem you should be able to deal with. From the point of view of the SV, it is now appropriate to investigate and assess whether not all medical costs related to hospital treatment should be covered by the Rikstrygdeverket, regardless of whether he is in hospital or in the outsourcing phase and should be treated outside the hospital. Similarly, it could be assumed that the cost of implants could be covered by the Rikstrøgdeverket so that some of these costs do not come under the hospitals and may require ethical considerations that would be difficult. This does not mean that expenditure development should not be controlled, but since a blue prescription system is currently in place, particularly linked to drugs, and the Rikstrygde works are already in place, at least what SV believes should be looked at in order to reduce hospital costs in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e450	Through the Government's proposals in St. Prp. No 13 for 1999-2000, an increase in the agreed appropriations for hospitals of 433 million. kr. In general, this is done to cover increased activity in hospitalisation and outpatient treatment. In addition to this, in consultation with the Government, a further strengthening of the county councils’ framework of 157 million has been proposed. SEK and a strengthening of the grant to regional hospitals, especially by 97 million. kr. The effort in recent years to increase hospital capacity in this country has produced results. It is treated more than ever, warranty breaches decline, and average waiting time is reduced for patients both with and without a guarantee. The difficult situation in many of the country's hospitals is serious, and I refer to the review I presented during the examination of the 2000 budget, where I said that I will come back to the Stortinget as soon as possible with an assessment of what is going to happen in order to achieve a continued growth in activity, as planned for 2000. I can agree with the representative John Alvheim that the interaction between the municipal sector and the state has not been as good as it should have been in this field. But I would like to say that it is rather the county's framework financing and self-financing of the strong growth in hospital activity, which is far beyond what was planned when the budgets were laid in the autumn of 1998, which has created problems, rather than the ISF system itself. Now, however, we are in the situation that we are going to analyse this in more detail, and thus we will get a better answer to that issue. However, let me stress that I expect some nuance in the criticism raised in relation to the department's management of the ISF system. It is true that when faults are found in the computer programs that control this distribution of funds, the ministry must react and correct these errors. It will appear as a change in the course of the year. If the department were not to react when a mistake was discovered, which would trigger a grant of NOK 17 000 for a human rights operation that would have had a grant of NOK 5000, it is clear that the department would not do its job if you did not correct the programme and follow it up with the county councils. This is an example of a situation for which the ministry has been criticized, and which is a change along the way this year, which I believe the ministry should definitely do. That being said, I would say that I fully agree with what I have said earlier today, and I will come back, as it is now widely agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e462	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e465	It is clear that the Minister of Health and the undersigned have a slightly different view of what the economic crisis in the hospitals really is coming from, and now it has to be. But I said in my contribution to the budget debate this morning that the input-based funding percentage is too low. As a result, there will be a heavy pressure on the frames as production increases. Once the hospitals have produced so much more treatment than was foreseen, I assume that both the Minister of Health and the undersigned are very happy about it. Then we'll find ourselves paying the county councils for the job they've done. Another thing that has not been mentioned so far, even in the budget debate, is that hospitals are now in a completely different situation when it comes to obtaining a budget balance. In the past, we had a framework to reduce the operation when we saw that the budget would not hold, i.e. reduce services. If hospitals were to do so today, with input-based funding at 50 p.m., the hospital economy would be even worse because the revenues of the input-based treatment would be lost. So the hospitals are now really getting into a pinch that we have to be helpful in getting them out of, i.e. We have to solve the problems for patients.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e474	I don't know how much longer we're going to get in this debate here and now, but we agree to get an even better basis to lead it, and I'm going to contribute to it. But let me say that we share the joy that hospitals have helped more people faster in 1999 and thus helped reduce both waiting times and warranty breaches. They shall be settled in accordance with the financing arrangements adopted by the Storting. Then the representative Alvheim and I disagree on the extent to which this contributes to pressing the framework for free income and the activities of the county councils. I don't think there can be any doubt that this is the case when the growth of activity is far greater than what you're planning to do. But we will also have the opportunity to get closer to that. Regarding the Alvheim representative’s point of view of a new situation in which cuttings in activities are not necessarily profitable, at least not in the health and hospital sectors, it is an entirely correct observation. The input-based funding contributes to attracting resources to the health sector, and it helps to keep resources there, because cutting activity in the hospital sector with this form of funding is much less profitable than cutting elsewhere. This, of course, makes it difficult in the relationship between the sectors of the county municipalities, and places county leaders and politicians against very difficult balances and priorities. As national authorities, we need to take this into account when assessing the overall assumptions of county councils in order to solve their tasks in the hospital sector as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e483	I would just like to underline in the introduction that SV promotes two proposals linked to the chapter. The 730 entries 62 and 67 are included in the statement. The proposals were not promoted in the main article. So to the Minister of Health: I pointed out instead of the State Health Authority and the press release that some of the costs associated with hospital operations seem to be due to conditions outside the hospitals and not necessarily in the hospitals. In addition, figures from SINTEF Unimed show that, in terms of cost growth, even when indexing the data related to stay — i.e. taking into account that some hospitals initially have different assumptions for becoming expensive — nevertheless, cost growth is associated with regional hospitals that are significantly higher than in local hospitals. The smaller the hospital units, the lower the costs, and the greater the efficiency. It must mean that it will be cost-effective to create a distortion that ensures treatment at the so-called ‘lowest effective level of care’. But then you also have to have a type of instrument that ensures it. And it may seem that the input-driven funding, on the contrary, stimulates growth towards the highest cost levels. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Health: what kind of action does the Minister of Health see in order to get a twist across the treatment units that can operate as cost-effectively as possible, and not to get a cost increase in the next few years specifically linked to regional hospitals, as we have seen not least in the current year?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e492	Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e495	It is no wonder that the costs of the most specialised hospitals are those that grow most at a time when medical research and technology is making considerable progress. It's an understandable and explainable development. We are able to help more and more people, with more and more suffering, over an increasing tension in life. It presents healthcare with a cost challenge and a priority challenge. That is something we see – I think – in the picture that is now drawn from the situation in Norwegian hospitals. It shall not prevent us from focusing on the cost picture and how one can contribute to the optimum use of resources. I believe that the most important tool to ensure treatment at the lowest effective level is the strengthening of health planning adopted by the Stortinget through the provisions on regional health plans, which are intended to establish a rational division of work between hospitals. Here lies the main tool – in my opinion – to ensure that treatment is done at the lowest possible and best possible level.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e500	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e503	I want to comment on three themes. First race. 614 and the reduction that has taken place as a result of the experiment with the user’s office, which has taken longer to start than expected. Let me now report that the department has actually negotiated with the Municipality of Oslo since February to get such an experiment. I can report a constructive dialogue which means that now, although these negotiations have taken longer than expected, there is every reason to expect to start in a short time. So to the State Narcotics Clinic, there's the fact that it's got fewer clients in the last six months than expected. There is no reason to believe that it can be explained that the need is smaller. The state drug clinic has the task of providing a treatment and rehabilitation service to families where parents are drug addicts. In addition, provision shall be made for individual and couples with the purpose of declaring parenthood, parental responsibility. I now want to assess whether the institution should also develop services to other client groups. The institution will market itself more offensively towards municipalities and municipalities. Let me remind you that the institution has had 100 pst in the last three years. In both 1996, 1997 and 1998, however, the lack of access to clients is currently uncertain, whether it is transitory or of a lasting nature. As Stortinget is well known, attempts have been made by the department to facilitate the municipal takeover of the state drug clinic. No county council has yet wished to assume the operational responsibility of the institution. A county council anchoring of the State Narcotic Clinic would be in line with the principle of organisation and sharing of responsibilities in this field. I'm now going to follow the situation of this institution carefully. The Ministry has close contact with the clinic, and I also see what can be reported here, in conjunction with the Nesvåg Group’s review and the necessary assessment of the relationship between needs and supply, as well as the organisation and financing of this sector. Then to my third theme: ‘Special appropriation for the preparation of beer for self-declaration’. I see it as positive that the tourist industry wants to serve the guests traditional Norwegian food and drink. I agree with the Committee that home-produced beer, wine and sides should be able to be part of the supply. Alcohol law does not stop for it today, but the promise requires that the donor cities, in the same way as other alcohol producing enterprises, must be allowed to produce. In Ot.prp. No 7 for 1996-97 the issue of exemptions was assessed but not recommended by the then Social Minister. The majority of the social committee at that time asked the government to make a more thorough assessment of this matter. A proposal from the Progress Party and the Right regarding an exception did not receive a multiple. The government will submit a proposal for a simplified serving site scheme that already has a scan permit. In my view, such a proposal should be assessed in the context of possible changes to the government authorisation system for production and wholesale translation. When I have taken up this matter now, it is because I am delayed in relation to what I have said. When it comes to evaluating aspects of alcohol law, it was surprising that I was going to be in debt for training. And let me add, in the light of the comments that the majority now write, that the department will of course submit a statement on a simplified system of matters.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e524	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e527	It is gratifying that this government has indeed been able to implement some simplifications in the context of Norwegian alcohol policy, and the Government must have all the credit for following up the decision of the Grand Duchy. This applies to both wine on aircraft, that's at least 50 new wine monopolies, and we also have another thing, that the representative Hoegh was in. And now the government is given the opportunity to simplify the procedure for giving in connection with traditional food and drink. But I want to show you one thing. If you look at the history of this case, this question was first raised in Ot.prp. No 51 for 1994-95, so we're talking about four-five years back. Then the matter came back again in connection with Innst. O. No 59 for 1996-97, in which case the majority writes: ‘... but will in turn ask the Government to investigate the matter more thoroughly in order to describe and design an authorisation scheme, including all legislative considerations and legislation, in order to provide, where appropriate, for the possibility of discontinuing on its own business together with food traditionally included in it.’ It came in March 1997. My question is, how long does it take in a really little advanced case to make a thorough evaluation and get back to Stortinget? We're talking here in two and a half years. It's probably a very thorough treatment, but I think it takes a disproportionately long time. I also want to raise the question of whether the matter is really tried away from hiding, because if you read the title of St.prp. No 13, it says: ‘On changes under some chapters of the 1999 State budget etc. under the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health.’ My question is then, in conclusion: what is the reason why the matter lies in this proposition, is there any numerical implications for the current year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e546	I want to give the representative Nesvik the right to say that in parts of the drug policy, a number of governments have asked the government to put into action measures in which we have disagreed from our basic point of view. Our rationale for maintaining a more restrictive line has been the relationship between availability, consumption and harm caused by drug abuse. First to history when it comes to this specific matter: I have, for my part, notified the Storting both in Question Time and in other contexts that I would follow up the comments of the Committee on the previous handling of alcohol laws when aspects of the changes were to be evaluated. Then, of course, it had to take a while. When I now chose to add this matter to this proposition, it was because of course I expect everything to be read. I reported that I was not going to follow this up now, but I would like to link it to an evaluation that was delayed in relation to my progress. I did not find it necessary to put this in a separate case when I still had a case that would be reported to Stortinget. That's the way it is!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e556	I noticed what the Council of State now said about measures the Storting had adopted in the field of alcohol policy, and which the Government did not agree with for different reasons. Then I would like to ask the Council of State the following questions: The Central Party cannot agree with itself, in relation to several of the matters that the Council of State here is thinking about? I choose to believe that the Central Party has one position in these matters when they are in opposition, and a completely different position when they are in government. I then refer to the majority position that the Senterpartiet was in on this matter 2-3 years ago in time, and I also show that the Senterpartiet was in the decision in Stortinget to allow the serving of wine on domestic aircraft. But the decisions and positions get a completely different tone in these matters when you get in position. Is it possible for the Council of State to explain why there are so many different positions in the position or in the opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e565	In fact, I believe that in these questions Einar Olav Skogholt and I have the same experience. There are questions that, for some representatives, are so personal that when it comes to the matter and the hearing is to be done – I stick to the discussion of this matter – the representatives speak differently. It happened in the Center Party at some point when the alcohol laws were handled the previous time. The fact that there may be different views in the Labour Party, too, when it comes to individual issues in the field of drug policy, I have understood that this can happen. So I just want to finish the sentence that I stopped in the middle of my speech when I went out in my first post. In this case, of course, I am prepared to draw up a simplified system for the production of beer, sides and wine, in accordance with the proposal adopted here today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e572	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e577	I don't think it's any wonder that people outside this house, who we sometimes call our voters, may look a little strange at us sometimes and are a little surprised at what political activity is all about. Here, at the end of this year, we have raised 254 million. SEK to the Norwegian Hospital Service. And then there's a big question mark about the formalities in advance of getting this money. However, when it comes to obtaining specific authorisation for home-made beer, wine and sides, there is no question of formalities. It shall be done in the least bureaucratic manner possible, because it is so important to do so. Then I get a little upset, and at the same time I realize that someone looks a little strange at us politicians. So to this with the proceedings and the appropriations for regional hospitals and public hospitals. I think it is good that we can get some untraditional solutions to come up with concrete and sensible decisions, which may be both practical and politically necessary. In the case of health policy, interaction, or lack of such interaction, between corruption and government has been called for. Here we found an excellent way to interact to get a result for the patient. So for this with beer and manufacturing permits. The Social Minister was negative to this, it was said here. Now the social minister himself went up and said she was positive about this, but she wanted to follow the system and put this into the evaluation of the alcohol law that is coming. And that's what we've been trying to follow during this course. I wish, among other things, The representative of Høegh and her party, Right, were equally interested in District and Building Norway and development of nutrition, for example. the range of food, beverages and the organisation of major activities and production, as they are with alcohol. This is important for example: Our travel life that we're able to get the traditional drinks, and that it's not just Claustaler and Heineken that are being drunk. I think there's a need to get this out, and it can be both alcoholic and non-alcoholic for me. But that we have an experience for travel life also in food and drink, I think it's both important and interesting, so that we don't become a nation that eats pizza and taco and drinks coke and Danish beer. As rapporteur for Ot.prp. No 7 for 1996-97 I addressed this in 1997 with the then social minister, a social minister who is now vice-chairman of the Workers' Party, and who, after explaining a few things, answered me as follows: ‘I find it difficult, in this context, to start a relatively extensive work on describing and designing a specific authorisation scheme for self-employment.’ So I think there's a little difference between whether you're in opposition or in position on this question as in many others.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e599	I understand that it is necessary to justify the majority vote on two points that have come up again in the debate several times. One thing we're saying is that the system should be a little bureaucratic, and that it should be reasonable, and it's based on what the department itself writes in St. prp. No 13 page 8: ‘The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health takes the view that the objections raised by the localities to applying for ordinary production authorization are specifically linked to two aspects: that it is heavy and that the allocation is expensive.’ If you didn't want to do anything about it, you could search in a normal way. I have also registered that the representative Næss made a point that the majority of the committee wanted to extend the specific authorisation scheme from beer to wine and sides. This has been done, among other things, by the number of committees. in the light of the Ministry's own opinion in St. pp. No 13, where it says: ‘There is reason to believe that it may be very difficult to draw a reasoned and manageable distinction between the group that might be given a simpler system and that would have to comply with the ‘normal’ authorisation scheme.The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health assumes that any simplified scheme would therefore have to cover all those who wish to serve self-produced beer or wine.’ That is the basis for the majority's wording on the two points.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e616	This debate should probably have ended a long time ago. I only have one wonder left, and that's why the social minister has found reason to present a negative message to the Storting that we haven't asked for right now, when she obviously intends to make a positive announcement in a short time. Then you could have saved both this debate and a lot of effort for many. Now we just hope that the Minister of Social Affairs does as she says, not that she is investigating a new system, but that she is promoting proposals for a new system, so that this small matter can be put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e621	The actual situation is that there are some other representatives in addition to members of the Social Committee who, in question, have taken up this relationship, i.e. the possibility of giving up local drinks. And in that context, I have reported that I will evaluate this in connection with the evaluation that I had planned to submit in the fall. So the idea was to keep something that I had promised here to representatives who had taken up these matters earlier. Then I believe it is answered and clarified, and that there is no wonder, nor any suspicion of training in that field. So to a question that's been raised, the cost of such appropriations that we're now talking about. The last time the alcohol laws were changed in Stortinget, there was a proposal for a lower fee, which was sent out on the phone. The municipalities wanted a higher fee, and so it was determined where it is today, and I think there is reason to look closer to it. Finally, in relation to the representative of Skogholt and my experience, I understand that I expressed myself somewhat unclear. From my point of view, it was an attempt to gain common experience in dealing with these issues, not the contents of different commodities. And I actually think that the representative of Skogholt must admit that on the one hand, central party representatives have dealt with these matters differently, on the other hand, it can also first separate evidence that the Labour Party has changed its view on important points in relation to when the law was amended in 1997, and then towards more liberal positions. That is what this issue also documents in relation to the assessment by the former Minister of Social Affairs of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e630	The representative of Lutvold has had the word twice and gets... he is the case rapporteur, and then he has unlimited number of possibilities to make contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e633	I'm going to try to show some soberness in it. In this respect, among other things: serving wine on domestic flights and different performances of the Centre Party when you are in opposition or in position, I would like the representative of Skogholt to show me where the Centre Party has entered for serving wine on domestic flights, and when it was. That's the thing. Otherwise, I agree with the representative of Skogholt that both the application procedure and the fee should be as favourable as possible, i.e. a low fee and an application procedure that is not too complicated. But in the light of what the Minister of Social Affairs has now said, and also of what the then Minister of Social Affairs Hill-Marta Solberg has previously written to me on this matter, I just have to show that there are quite a number of considerations to take into account in relation to the production authorization, serving and donation authorization. In addition, Hill-Marta Solberg then calculated a good deal in terms of beer laws and regulations, as well as what I took up as the case-law rapporteur in 1997, that food law concerns. These things have to be cleared up and brought into a system, like a simple system, but it has to be in place. That is why I think it is reasonable for the Ministry to present this matter again in the context of the evaluation of the alcohol law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e642	Einar Olav Skogholt has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e645	I'll make it short. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus that there should be a system that is not very bureaucratic and that is reasonable. There have been many things here that we can debate in a later alcohol policy debate and be something more prepared for it. If I have referred to errors from Stortinget's treatment in 1997, with regard to the serving of wine on domestic aircraft and the opinion and decision of the Central Party in that matter, I regret that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e653	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1395]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e667	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1398]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e675	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e682	A total of 39 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-6, 29 and 30, by John Alvheim, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Socialist Left Party proposals No. 7-15, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 16,17 and 31, by John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Socialist Left-wing proposals Nos 18 and 19, by Annelise Höegh, on behalf of the Right and Socialist Left-wing proposals Nos. 20-25 and 32-36, by John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 26, 37 and 38, by Annelise Höegh, on behalf of the Right and Proposals Nos. 27, 28 and 39, from Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President will first deal with framework-independent minority proposals under Framework Area 15. During the debate John I. Alvheim made on the proposals No. 23, 24 and 25, from the People's Party, for transmission proposals. Proposal No. 23 it shall then read as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government approve the application from the Højskolan in Gjøvik to establish radiograph education in cooperation with the Højskolen in Bergen from the school year 2000-2001.’; Proposal No. 24 shall be worded as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government of the State Budget for 2001 submit proposals to strengthen the microbiological clinical activities of Norwegian public hospitals and to further propose incentives for research in medical bacteriology.’;» Proposal No. 25 is worded as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government approve the Influenza Centre in Bergen as a nationwide vaccine and competence centre for epidemics and pandemics and also ensure that the operational expenditure of the Centre becomes a separate entry in the 2001 government budget.’ The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. As regards proposal No: 28, from the Socialist Left Party, Olav Gunnar Ballo has asked that this proposal be converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal shall then read as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government examine the possibility of setting up emergency beds in the municipalities, as part of achieving a relief of hospitals at the lowest effective level of care.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Then we go to the other framework-independent minority proposals under framework area 15, and we start with proposals No. 20, 21 and 22, from the Advance Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a scheme of operating grants for nursing homes in the same way as the State grants support for the operation of kindergartens.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to take the initiative in setting up a further 1 000 care posts in the care of the elderly in addition to the adopted escalation plan.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the grant scheme to the outsourcing of young people with disabilities from institutions to 6 years’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e761	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18 and 19, from the Right and Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with an assessment of the provision of a higher start-up grant to nursing homes with associated staff, in line with the grant to nursing homes, so that they can provide services of good luck and care.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Grand Government is asking the Government to contribute to the State co-financing of the Lofoten Hest and Heelsenter Foundation in cooperation with the municipality of Vestvågøy and the municipality of Nordland.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e782	There is a vote on the motions for resolutions Nos 16 and 17 tabled by the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to evaluate the scheme for the allocation of funds for drug prevention and to assess the possibility that a greater part of the annual appropriations may be allocated on the basis of peer reviews.’;» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a permanent position for nurses in the New Ålesund.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e803	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7-15, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to wind up the umbrella organisation FRISAM from 1 January 2000.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to introduce the right to free home elections in all municipalities.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to defer the adopted fixed medical scheme until the municipalities have received adequate general medical coverage.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that, in the light of the changes made to input-based funding with increased crawling limits, reduced unit price, reduced cost weights and demand for 0.6 pst. efficiency, hospitals do not change their treatment priorities away from heavier and demanding patients to lighter patients providing higher hospital income.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government of the Revised National Budget 2000 to provide a system of differentiated unit prices for DRG reimbursement to ensure that reimbursement to hospitals more closely reflects real differences between patient weight hospitals within the same diagnostic-related groups.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set the reimbursement rate in the hospital input-driven financing scheme at 60 pst. The reimbursement shall go directly to the individual hospitals.’;» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government not later than March 2000 to bring forward its own case to the Storting on changes in hospital intervention funding in order to ensure that the intentions of the scheme are respected.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the project responsibility for the development of the RIT 2000 is entrusted to Norwegian or international actors experienced in similar construction projects.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The majority asks the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the Revised National Budget 2000, brief the Stortinget on how to ensure that Norwegian cancer patients can receive treatment with the new cytotoxic preparations for which it is difficult to find coverage in the hospital budgets today.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e860	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-6, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the necessary changes to the law on popular protection in order to remove the ceiling on interpreting hours for deaf, deaf and deaf blind.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate ways of recruiting and stabilising public dentistry and to refer the matter to the Storting as its own case.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks for a concrete package of measures for the recruitment of nurses and caregivers in connection with the Revised National Budget for 2000’.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the introduction of PACS at the Rikshospitalet in the 2001 budget.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to refer a case to the Storting on the criteria for the practice of the provisions of the Patient Rights Act on the right to health care in the light of the regulations of the Act, so that the Storting can decide on this before the Act enters into force.’ Proposal No. Six sounds. ‘The Government asks the Government to review the estimated annual operating costs of the National Medical Museum.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e902	We shall then vote on minority proposals for framework area 15, and we shall first take proposal No. 27, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e4181	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 26, from the right: The proposal reads:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e7454	A vote shall then be taken on the proposal for a decision on Framework Box 15 with the underlying capital and items and Roman numerals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e10714	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e10725	The vote will then be taken on the proposal for a decision outside the scope of the Framework 15.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e10783	The party of progress has also announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e10796	Let's move on to area 16. The President shall re-apply framework-independent minority proposals. During the debate John I. Alvheim made the proposals No. 35 and 36, from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Proposal No. 35 shall then be worded as follows: ‘The Government is advised to ensure that the medicinal products Aricept and Singulair are introduced on an ordinary blue prescription.’ Proposal No. 36 shall be worded as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government amend the reimbursement legislation for Norwegian patients treated abroad so that, in particular, back restocking operations carried out abroad are fully covered by the Swedish National Works Agency. The majority further asks the Government to radically reduce the treatment time for applications for reimbursement of medical treatment abroad.’ The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It shall then be contested by the other non-framework minority proposals under Framework Area 16. There is a vote on proposal No. 38, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the sickness pay scheme to give 50 pst. pay the first three days of absence. Then give 90 pst. of full wages and salaries. Absences under the disease of the child are not increased.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e10833	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 32, 33 and 34, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the sickness pay scheme with the introduction of two qualifying days and 80 pst. sickness pay. The savings are entirely due to the public’s reluctance to do so.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the law on social security that result in married pensioners getting their own full and legal pension paid without a curtailment based on marital status.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the law on popular security, which lead to the transition aid to single dependants being as it was before 1999.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e10859	There is a vote on proposal No. 31, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for guidelines which effectively ensure that the basic amount of the population’s interest is developed in line with the general trend in income’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e10875	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 29 and 30, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Left Party of Socialists. Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that patients with a special car are allowed the rates of the State using their own car in cases where the option is that the social security covers air travel.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to reconsider what reimbursement Singulair should receive in the light of the professional and economic objections raised against the basis of the Ministry’s recommendation.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e10896	We shall then vote on minority proposals for framework area 16, and we shall start with proposal No. 39, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e12458	Proposal No. 37, from the Right, is taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e14025	We shall now vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e15592	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e15619	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Cape.PostFormsCroner730The health service of the counties62Addition to regional hospital, increased from NOK 1 482 800000 to NOK 1771 300000 288 500 00067Other grants, increased from NOK 71 900000 to NOK 371 900 000» 300000
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e15683	Proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «Cap.PostFormsCroner730The health service of the municipalities60Integrated hospital financing, increased from DKK 10 748 000 000 to NOK 11 691 000 000» 943 000 000 Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to enter into negotiations with the Local Governments’ Central Association in view of changes to the current legislation on input-based funding, so that hospitals can cover 50 pst. of real processing costs.’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e15932	Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e16502	Before we go to voting, the President will make a correction as Einar Olav Skogholt has explained during the debate. In the first line, which reads ‘used’, it shall read ‘linked’. The President assumes that the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party will vote against it – it will be confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17552	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other lots 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, the president suggests that those who had to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17563	The Church, Education and Research Committee has, in the autumn, been examining Document No. 8:65 for 1998-99 by the representatives of Thorbjørn Jagland and Grete Knudsen, that if the local public school needs to be closed or degraded, no grant is granted to private schools, and Document No. 8:67 for 1998-99 by Carl I. Hagen, Ursula Evje and Ulf Erik Knudsen, on the amendment of grants to private schools. The latter is a matter of public opinion, but the Committee will debate both issues together. The Committee considered the grant schemes for private schools in depth a year ago and the operating grant was set at 85 pst. The promotion party now proposes 100 pst., the right wants 90 pst., the center parties stand at 85 pst., SV and the Workers' Party repeats in a budgetary note this year that for some schools, for example. those approved on a religious basis want the rates down to 50 p.m. This would have to lead to discrimination between parents and students on the basis of the financial assumptions they may have. One might wonder if this is the way the Workers' Party and the SV operate non-discrimination. The central parties are on what we have previously adopted. It has proved to be useful schemes and grants that allow private establishment and admission of schools under the Private School Act. Support for operations appears not to be so high as to prevent school money from being used in these schools. But it's the Progress Party's proposal to open up to give 100 pst. support both for operations and for investment equivalent to public schools for all those who want to run a private school, which is mainly here. The Christian People's Party believes that some criteria must form the basis for grants. Section 3 of the Act must continue to apply. The needs of parents and children to choose another type of school are met by religious justification or by strong desire to pursue schooling on the basis of alternative pedagogical principles. The Christian People's Party wants a strong and good public school and does not want to open up for full support to anyone who wants to set up a school on any basis. The system we have today works well and ensures parental rights in a good way. So to the proposal of Thorbjørn Jagland and Grete Knudsen, which I find strange. At best, it can be understood by a strong desire for a good public school, and we have that in common. But we in the Christian People's Party do not mean that everyone has to go there. We still claim parental rights as an indispensable principle. If it's going to be the same for everyone, we can't follow the idea of the Workers' Party, which says it's hard to defend the public school and at the same time uphold the parents' rights when this comes into conflict with each other. My opinion is that the Workers' Party puts so much into the concept of 'one-school' that everyone should and must go there. But today's society is more complex than it was before, and requires opportunities for different solutions even within the school system. The Christian People's Party therefore does not follow the Workers' Party in this matter. We also want a school as good as possible, so that as much as possible really chooses it, but not at the expense of parental rights and the arrangements we have today that make it real. The setting-up of private schools is to a very small extent due to the closure and deterioration of schools. The reasons for this lie much more in changes in housing patterns, municipal economy and municipalities’ own priorities. I cannot understand how the Labour Party might think of introducing such an additional criterion as they propose today. Should pupils and parents be discriminated against and their rights depend on where in Norway they live? And how does the Workers' Party think that the scheme they are proposing should be possible to practice? No, other measures need to be taken if this is not to be seen as an attack on private schools, but a strengthening of small, public schools and the maintenance of a decentralised school pattern. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the Council of State has said that he will assess the correction system with a view to greater predictability for the municipalities. The majority of the Committee does not support the proposal submitted and urges the Stortinget to take the following decision: ‘Proposal by the local government representatives Thorbjørn Jagland and Grete Knudsen for no grant to private schools if the local public school needs to be closed or degraded — rejected.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17595	We've had a lot of rounds of private schools here in the hall, and we just have to say once again that the council and his party have decided: it's positive with private schools, all private schools are in and affect School Norway positively, there are no negative signs with private schools. This must in a way be the conclusion when we meet again a Christian People's Party and a Council of State that completely rejects any attempt to get into a discussion about the arrangement of private schools. This happens at the same time that we read in the newspapers every day that the public school is struggling. We see that there is trouble with the indoor climate, we see that there are closures around, we see that there are problems recruiting teachers, everywhere we see that there are problems in public school. With regard to the free resources of municipalities, we got a part of the budget agreement, but it is still far too small, and it makes it difficult to comply with what we have adopted in connection with reform 97. Criticism flows into Norwegian school, but I have the impression that the Council of State is just pulling down its ears and approving one private school after another. And when we see to all intents and purposes that the matter we are going to deal with after this, changes to the 1999 budget, there is once again an increase, now of 17 million. kr, to the private schools, because the council has approved more than he really had the hope of applying. There is a fundamental disagreement in the Stortinget and the Committee on the issue of private schools. That's okay. Because while I have the impression that the center and the right side claim parental rights as the absolute goal, the only important thing, we are more concerned that the kids should be guaranteed a good offer. It's okay that there's a fundamental disagreement. I'm sure we can live with that. I'm sure we can have a lot of debates on that. I hope that once we get a pass because it's possible to do something here. But I had actually expected that the government parties would have been at least a little worried that the public school, the school of unity, is still facing criticism that it doesn't hold up. We see that the pressure on public schools is increasing. It must then be possible to stand together and fight to strengthen the single school. Now we see that private schools are overstepping the public offer in a number of places. We have mentioned one example in Document No. The 8-proposal that we have promoted. This applies to Ørsnes in Lofoten, where we see that the offer to the students is getting worse, not only because of the closure of the public school, but also because the village is now being split, because the kids in the village are getting less opportunity to learn about each other and from each other, and that they are getting a worse chance to learn how to work and live together in the future. The big problem there is not that the public school is closed, and that the kids have to be bused a few minutes into Cable Wave. The big problem is that the building is now split into two. We now see that we are seeking to establish a montessori school in Finnmark – it is certainly being established – in order to avoid the Sami curriculum. That's the exact same thing here: you separate the groups, you see that the school of unity is being attacked, you can't use the school like that tool and that weapon against intolerance that it actually is. We also see new examples of public schools being laid down, coming in private and taking over. The same is true here: because of poor local economy and the pressure exerted on the government unit school, new private schools are being set up. The Labour Party's proposal – and I have to get a little straight with the case rapporteur – is not a total attack on private schools and an attack on parental rights. It's actually nothing but an attempt to get into dialogue with the centers of private schools. I record that the case rapporteur rejects it altogether, and at all events cannot understand why we have made such a proposal. The proposal is no stranger than that when it came, it was people far into the apparatus in the center parties who said that this was actually interesting. Both Johan J. Jakobsen and Per Olaf Lundteigen came in those days with statements, and Lundteigen said among others. that private schools should not obtain a level which removes the basis from public schools. Similar statements also came from Jacobsen. The proposal is no stranger than the fact that the Senter party actually agreed on it far on the way when it came. It is disappointing that the Government, and in particular the Central Party, no longer stands at what they said when we presented the proposal, nor is it at what they were far on the way to in the last growing-up period, as they also repeatedly expressed the desire to tighten up some of the legislation and the support system for the private schools. We just have to record that the Center Party is now inside the fold of the Christian People's Party and is helping to weaken the school of unity, and private schools are increasing. We have to note that they have either changed their eyesight and have no concerns about agreeing with the things that the case rapporteur put forward here now, or they are the drum in place of the Christian People's Party and have lost internal to the government fraction. We see that those groups that receive support for their private schools are more and more extreme. We see that the vast majority of the new schools that are now coming are based on religious groups who do not want to participate in the community, and who almost have an active goal of destroying the school because they think it's better for kids to go to school separately. The worst example of that is the so-called ACE schools that now pop up around. Now we see that they even want to have their own teaching school to train teachers in this pedagogy, a pedagogy we've had a lot of rounds around here in Stortinget. I really don't think there's so many people inside believe that it's good that the kids are taught sitting in booths with their faces facing the wall and must lift a flag when they need help, and lift another flag when they're done with their task and want the teacher to come and fix it. So now they're going to have their own teacher school, not just to teach in their own schools, but they also have a goal of teaching in the Norwegian government unit school. They want to go in there too, in the ordinary school. I take it as a matter of course that the Council of State approves it, because it will be entirely in line with the school policy that the party it represents has now pursued for several years. I expect him to approve it, so that a proper unit school, a real public school for everyone here in Norway, gets another shot for the bow. It is in any case that the Council of State is responsible. The Council of State is responsible for prioritising private schools and weakening the school of unity. Governments are responsible for moving towards a more and more shared school system, and that we are now getting schools out of more and more secondary groups. I am sincerely disappointed that with our proposal it was not possible to enter into a certain dialogue with the centre to discuss the issue of private vs. public school in a proper way. I'm disappointed, and I'm terribly surprised that you're not willing to hit a blow to make sure we're going to have a single school in this country. Later today, Odelstinget shall deal with a Document No. Eight proposals from the Progress Party, which are actually going in the opposite direction to what the Workers' Party has proposed. We might get a little debate then, but I'll say a few words about it already now. The proposal is that you give full scrolls to all the schools and 100 pst. coverage for all private schools. All right, I understand the Progress Party means it. But there's one thing that makes the proposal go wild, because when we see the overview of what Norwegian municipalities use in schools, we see that the schools that use the most use use three to four times more than those that use the least. How do you figure out what 100 pst is?? One would have guaranteed very many places where the private school would have received a support that had far exceeded what the public schools in the municipality had to live with. Then I think we would have seen a large-scale privatisation of Norwegian education. I understand that the Progress Party believes it, but it is a proposal that the Labour Party naturally agrees to reject. I'm glad that the center has stretched so far that they actually agree that this is going too far.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17625	In this case, the Progress Party is part of the majority who, in the vote, would like to reject the proposal by the representatives of Thorbjørn Jagland and Grete Knudsen. The rapporteur has examined the main reasons why this conclusion has been reached in his statement. The particular concern of the Workers’ Party’s proposal is that it will result in a discrimination between municipalities and municipalities in terms of parents’ ability to choose private options for their children. Like the proposers, the Progress Party is concerned about the closure of primary schools, but this is a municipal decision that may come in some cases as a result of a poor or misguided local economy. The municipality may have spent money in other fields. For example, you choose: prioritisation of cultural housing or new town halls instead of school bets. In any case, such municipal decisions cannot have an impact on private school assessments. I also think that the proposal of the representatives of Mr Jagland and Mr Knudsen is defensive in nature. In some cases, there are private schools competing with public schools, and the solution of the Workers' Party is to ban the competitor. Instead, the challenge should be addressed and attempted to raise the quality of the public school in order to meet the competition of private individuals. As far as cross-border schools are concerned, I would also like to mention that, in the budget debate tomorrow, the Progress Party will be tabling a proposal for increased appropriations of 70 million. kr. The working party, if given priority, has the opportunity to support this proposal. The views of the party on private schools have been thoroughly explained in the document and the position to be taken by Odelstinget later today. As we know, today's private schools are covered with 85 pst. of what a normal school spends on variable expenditure, to put it simply. And you have to represent an alternative way of life or an alternative way of teaching. The party of progress should be allowed to make private schools if they meet the qualitative requirements for the education given. So we want everyone who wants to do this to be allowed to open a private school and to have the same financial framework conditions as those in the public sector. As we experience, 100 pst is 100 pst. grants to private schools started in Sweden. So in this area, the Swedes are in front of us. And as we have learned, the Workers' Party's sister party in Sweden has gone ahead in this matter, so that the Norwegian Workers' Party has something to learn in this field. Moreover, we can note that much indicates that private schools are both better and cheaper than public schools. This assumption can be supported by an increasing number of parents applying for their children to private schools. I agree with the rapporteur that today's system is working. The difference is that with the proposals of the Progress Party, it will work even better. A little private works well. Then it is reasonable to believe that much private will work even better.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17651	I noticed that the representative Norvoll lamented in his speech that it is not possible to establish a dialogue on private schools and the policy to be pursued vis-à-vis them. But I must say that the representative Norvoll's posts were the best illustration of why it's not going to be a dialogue, but a kind of military hit. Because it was a unilateral canonade of the same type that the Workers' Party has been on for years every time the theme of private schools has been on the agenda. It wasn't a single positive word to hear, it wasn't even a neutral word to hear, about some private schools in this country. The proposal promoted by the Workers' Party is, in my view, a proposal which will not be feasible, simply because the criteria for refusing to accept private schools are so formulated that it will not be possible to operate on such criteria in accordance with the principle of equal treatment for applicants. It is also clear that if this proposal were to be put into practice, it would have the practical consequence that the parent’s right of principle applies only if the parents are resident in municipalities of a certain size and with a certain population. It will not be applicable to parents who live in District Norway. There is a discrimination that is so obvious that one must almost wonder that a party talking about social equality has nerves to make such a proposal. It should be fairly clear that the private school law is a law of rights which has at the bottom the human rights obligations that Norway has entered into internationally. These rights must be entitled to advance rather than to the practical problems that need to be solved when someone wants to exercise their statutory rights. It seems pretty elementary to me. You can't set aside human rights because it's practical to set them aside. It seems quite clear to me that the private school law we have, in essence, is a good law, precisely because it respects the principle, namely that parents who, for reasons of life's vision or religious conviction, want an alternative for their children, should be able to do so with a reasonable financial benefit from the public, and that parents who have a strong desire for a completely different form of pedagogy than those practiced in public schools should also have such a right. Therefore, the Right cannot support the proposal promoted by the Progress Party in Document No. 8:67, because this proposal is suitable for wiping out the principle element by removing the criteria to ensure the human rights obligations, and instead will give a law that means freely rather than all parents who, for some practical reason, would want to join together and create an alternative school. It will introduce a completely new legal state in Norway, which I see for my part no strong arguments that it is desirable to introduce. It is desirable to maintain the principal starting points that today's private school law maintains through the definition of criteria. In the Committee's position on the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right has put in place a separate proposal which provides for a certain approach to full economic non-discrimination within the framework of the current private school law, proposing that the Government be asked to facilitate an increase in the subsidy rate from 85 to 90 p.m. in the budget for 2001. Finally, let me add that the argument repeated in Mr Norvolll's speech that private schools are a sort of financial threat to the public school in Norway is and becomes an entirely unfounded and pointless argument. If all private schools in this country were closed in the morning, the public school would not get the best economy for that reason. Let me also remind you that the Workers' Party has entered into a budgetary settlement with the Government and is 100 pst. for all parts of the budget adopted at the end of the financial debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17669	The representatives Jagland and Knudsen propose in Document No. 8:65 for 1998-99 not to grant grants to private schools where public school provision has to be reduced or degraded. The central party initially has a certain sense of the intention of the proposal, but cannot support it. I refer to the comments of the majority, where this is justified by the fact that we do not want an authorisation practice that leads to arbitrary discrimination between urban and rural parents. Because this can be a problem, especially in pig-grown districts. It must be the same rights for parents regardless of where they live in the country. Here, I fully agree with the representative for Wage. If the Workers' Party's proposal were to go through, parents who want private schools and who live in a municipality where the public school is threatened would have to pay much more than other parents if they chose private school for their children. It's going to be wrong in relation to the Central Party's attitude to fair distribution, and that everyone should be entitled to school regardless of their parents' wallet. The centre party wants primarily such a good, open, tolerant and inclusive public school that as few as possible want anything else. In this context, however, there is reason to recall that there has not been such an increase in the number of students attending private schools, as suggested by the Labour Party representatives in Document No. 8:65. When this is said, I'm going to admit that the Center Party does not feel comfortable with the fact that it seems that more people want to go to private schools, because it may mean that the public school does not meet the needs of the respective parents. This was probably behind Per Olaf Lundtägen's opinion as well, as the representative Norvoll pointed out. Nevertheless, we must respect the parents' right to choose school for their children, and Norway is obliged to comply with international conventions that need to be followed. In the name of justice, it must be admitted that the establishment of private schools is far from the main cause of school leaving. It shows, among other things: all the requests made to both the Committee and to us as individual representatives concerning the laboured economy of many municipalities in these days. The main reason for school closures in district municipalities is a weak local economy. It came, among other things: The radio programme Here and now — in the NRC yesterday, Monday 13 December, describing the situation of school dropouts. The setting-up of private schools was not mentioned as a cause in this context at all. On the contrary, we know that parents tend to set up private schools because the public school is laid down. In the municipality of Osterøy, the new municipal council has decided to restore the abandoned school, according to information provided in the radio report. It fully indicates that local government has the decisive word in such cases, and that school dropouts are important issues in the election campaign. This should not deprive the Stortinget and the Government of responsibility for the framework conditions under which the municipalities are to work. I can promise to do my utmost to strengthen the local economy, and expect to get the Workers' Party's support in it, even though the party is disappointed with us in the Center Party in this matter. I notice that the Workers' Party and SV say in the preamble that local authorities ‘must have an influence on the overall school pattern in the community’. Yes, I agree. The example from Osterøy is proof of that. But as long as we have a private school law – and I haven't seen the parties mentioned will remove it – then the department must enter the picture. I have noticed that the Council of State will consider correction mechanisms for municipalities that are getting involved in the framework transfers due to the creation of private schools. It gets my full support, while I trust that the Council of State will make the necessary overall assessments on a case-by-case basis. So a few words about the second Document No. The 8th proposal to be discussed in Odelstinget later today. I would like to point out here and now that the Central Party belongs to the majority who reject that proposal as well. We can't in any way be in favour of such a change of laws as is outlined. It would, in the event of its adoption, lead to major changes for primary and secondary schools located beyond the central party's policy. It would really be a school-political revolution in our country, and we absolutely do not want that in the Central Party. It is worth noting that the school owners of the private schools do not want a 100 pst funding scheme. State aid, as they want to build their school philosophy on an idealistic basis. I think the proposers should also notice that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17686	I feel that this is going to be a bit of a strange debate, because we don't get to grips with what's the basic problem: how the private school law is formulated and practiced. But let me make it clear that the way the law is practiced today is consistent. I have no reason to criticize the ministry for the way it practices the law. I also do not need to be afraid of setting up private schools. I think we should have a fairly sober relationship with this. The biggest threat to public schools today is the poverty of public schools. That's something we should take over all of us, and that's something we have a common responsibility for. But when that's said, I'll go into what's the problem of the private school law, as I see it today. First of all, it's a fundamental problem, and it's going on what I want to call the law's automation. We have a law today that says that if you apply for a private school, either on a religious basis or as a pedagogical alternative, it's more or less automatic in that if you meet one of these criteria, you should be allowed to set up a school. No use of judgement or use of judgement has been made. This automation system is in many ways a little bit strange. Paragraph 25 of the Act now provides for the municipality and the director of education in the county to be heard, but in many ways it is the only safety valve located there. And that's a pure right of expression. Secondly, that is what is going on in purely economic terms and whether the budget is going to be governing the ministry. We are going to deal with a matter relating to the 1999 budget, where we know that we have an over-consumption in this item of nearly 20 million. kr. It should be such that the budget adopted by Stortinget governs the ministry in assessing applications. They must be able to say that here is a budget line where the Storting has budgeted like this. This means that if someone is applying to set up a school, the ministry must be able to say that within the budget framework we now have, it is not possible to establish that school. So the government budget adopted by the Storting should be governing the establishment of such schools. Thirdly, today's law makes it difficult for municipalities to plan their school offerings. I'm going to use Akershu County Council as an example, and it's about high school. In Akershus it is approx. 1000 students attending private schools, and for this, Akershus County Municipality is being drawn for a place between 30 and 40 million. kr every year. At the same time, the county council has vacant posts which theoretically suggest that if the county had planned for the number of students they have, and if they could then get these students into their schools – which they have the opportunity to do without any particular increase in costs – they would be able to save between 30 and 40 million. kr. And that's a good economy. Today's law is an automatic system that says that if you apply for it and that basis, you will more or less automatically have to set up private schools. The law makes municipal and county planning more difficult, and it also means that the state budget is overly governing the ministry’s way of dealing with it. Then I want to get into one type of private school, the so-called ACE schools, which we've discussed before. For approx. three weeks ago, the Evening Post had a big headline showing that some of these schools are using textbooks that convey a view of the gender roles that are clearly contrary to the Equality Act. And the department approves these schools. It has been applied for on a religious basis, and once they have evaluated these applications, the Ministry has not entered and evaluated the educational material to be used. There I think the department should have gone in and looked at the overall pedagogical structure, where the teaching material is an important part, and said that these schools cannot be approved. I would like the Council of State to comment on this later in its article.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17703	It's not always like that, but today, the Council of State could almost have disapproved its post and pointed out to the representative of Wage. It was basically and very much a review of the foundation of the private sphere, as it is led by. However, some comments: The representatives Jagland and Knudsen have in Document No. 8:65 a proposal that the state should not grant state grants to private schools in the event of the local school being laid down. The background for this is, among other things. municipalities with private schools get a move in the frame transfers from the state. The representatives of Jagland and Knudsen believe that this leads to that the municipalities, after a private school is established, may be forced to reduce the standards of the public school. I would like to stress that this correction scheme should include funds saved by municipalities when the elephants enter private schools. The funds are not drawn into the state but allocated to all municipalities according to the number of inhabitants of the school age. Most municipalities with private schools will have savings equal to or greater than the amount of the draw. As a whole, the local economy does not suffer as elephants go to private schools. In fact, increase the total resources available to municipalities. However, some municipalities may come out worse than others. The cost of schooling is mostly related to the class number, and not directly to the student number. If the class number is not reduced after the transfer to a private school, the municipality will not save any expenses. In such cases, the municipality may come out worse because of the correction scheme. In letters to the Church, Education and Research Committee, I have signaled that on the basis of this, I will assess changes in the correction system, and I will come to this point again. So a relationship that Reikvam's representative brought up, that this is automatic. There are probably a lot of seekers who say there's no automatic from the department at this point. Strict professional assessments are taken into account, and a user uses the time needed without delay. But it's clear that a parent's right must be exactly when it comes to what the right parent has to offer. When the Ministry approves private schools with the right to state grants, it is a follow-up to decisions in private schools. In the 1990-91 school year, 1.3 pst passed. of primary school students in private schools. For the school year 1999-2000, the prognosis for primary education in private schools is 1.6 pst. The talk shows that private schools have little scope in Norway. However, the incentive scheme has helped to allow groups who want an alternative to public school, either on a religious basis or as a professional/pedagogical alternative, to choose schools with alternative teaching facilities. Another point pointed out by the representative, Reikvam, was that the county councils came out badly, and he cited Akershus as an example. In the case of continuing schooling, quantitative needs are a central element of allocation. Therefore, it is not the same code as a follow-up school, and therefore it is very often specialized that cannot automatically go into the portfolio of the school that one has. So I doubt that's the math of the representative of Requam. I refer to the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party as members of the Church, Education and Research Committee as being concerned that local government and school authorities should be able to influence the local school pattern in the local environment. Representatives stress that the Ministry should pay more attention to advice from the local government when deciding whether private schools should receive state funding. By private sphereelova § 25 nr. 2 collects the Ministry's disclaimer from the host municipality and the State Education Office in the county in the case of private basic school. In the assessment, see private spherelova § 25 nr. 3, the Department may, inter alia: emphasise the importance of the local public base. This concern, however, must be used with caution. When a private school is created in a small building, it will always lead to a weaker student base for the public school. If the private school always has to give up, the parenting right will not be the same in the districts as in the central districts, as some others have said. When it comes to the proposal of representatives Evje, Hagen and Knudsen, to be debated later in Odelstinget, I conclude, for the sake of time, with the argument from the representative Wage, with the exception of increasing the rate of increase from 85 to 90 pst. I mean the promise is good with the percentage that is today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17726	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17730	I think the state councils are a hot defender of schools and a public decentralised school pattern when he was a staging representative and committee leader in the previous period. I have every reason to believe that he is still inside. But does the Council of State not see that what is now happening is gradually changing this pattern, and is this not a discrimination against those who do not have a public unity school to resort to in their vicinity? The Council of State has previously stated that he also stresses the importance of the local public school and advice from local democracy in assessing the recognition of new private schools. But how much weight does the Council of State attach to this? On us in the Working Party, it doesn't seem like these elements are being put on the whole. Parents' right to choose education for their children is, in my opinion, what is decisive, more than the government's defense of the public monopoly ball. The Council of State itself had the ability to take care of local circumstances and disclaimers from the local government and other parties. My question to the Council of State is whether he wants to pay more attention to those signals than he has now done, before new private schools might be approved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17737	I'm glad that the representative Upbeøen Hansen has a good memory. It is quite right that I have been and am a strong spokesman for the school as the heart of small branches, which it is important to keep up. But by going through the statistics for the later years and comparing, you'll see that spherical sphericals may have been put down. In the last few years, one might find two schools where private schools have a strong role to play in this, but when it comes to the example used by the representative Norvoll, the Labour Party suggested five years ago to drop that school, and so I would say that it is a little too crazy when an example is here in this big debate. So there are not the private schools that have been responsible, but many other framework factors. I have to admit that we're all working hard to find good tools to combine municipal self-government with holding up the cross-sections. I think we'll be honest enough to say that, and that's where we need to intensify our efforts. But we also have examples that, for economic reasons, a municipality has changed its structure, like Osterøy. In the case of an over-test of the municipal government decision, the Ministry has rejected the creation of private schools, just as a correction of the municipal government has done. So there's an example of that too. I mean, we're managing the promise to the best of our ability, and we think we're doing it in a good way. We take care of the local government and what the local government and the education director have said, but as I said in my post, one can't put the main weight on it, because then one takes away the parental right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17749	I could use reasonably strong words here now, but with my knowledge of the president I'm not going to do that. Several representatives have claimed that we are bound by international conventions. Yes, we are obliged by ratification of agreements, but we are more obliged than that, in fact, by the general Norwegian law that was adopted in ours and came into force immediately. I think you know what law I'm talking about. I want, before I go into it more, to remind the Council of State, when he talks about the support of 85 p.m., that in a NRK debate with the representative Tomas Norvoll about just private schools, he said that the support for private schools is nearly 60 p.m. of the actual expenditure of more than 85 pst.. So here's a long way between life and learning. It shouldn't be, when we think about something as important as human rights, about parents' rights to choose for their children. Article 13 of the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights is Norwegian law, and Section 3 of the Act reads as follows: ‘The provisions of the Conventions and Protocols referred to in paragraph 2 shall, in the event of a conflict, prevail before the provisions of other legislation.’ I believe that the Council of State is aware of this. How can he say that non-discrimination in schools, giving parents real choices, is something you do not accept in this room. Then you break your own law. I would very much like the Council of State to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17763	It is a long way between life and learning, says the representative Ursula Evje. I doubt that there is coverage to say, because of course I agree with what I have said in some cases: by new construction, etc. will be down to 60 pst. when calculating the rental costs. 85 pst. is of ordinary operating expenditure without capital expenditure, i.e. rent. That's what the promise says, and that's what's being practiced. So we're going to see this in relation to international conventions. International conventions oblige us to give parents the opportunity to establish their supply. After what has been the view of the majority of the population that has created private spheres, these conventions, if they are to be set in motion and give all the opportunities to participate – not as in England, where only the kingdoms that participate in private schools – will have to be a reasonable amount of government support. But, as others have pointed out here, the organizations that run private schools have also said that a certain amount of idealism is an important part of this. It turns out they're doing well. Dirfor I believe that the percentage of excess, as he has ours, is a pretty good order. On the other hand, it is clear that the rent is too heavy for many people. But I think it's important to have good relationships here. This arrangement has been going on for quite a number of years, and parents have known what one has submitted to, and I think I'm also important. So I mean Norway fully fulfills international obligations with the laws we have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17770	I noticed that the Council of State declared itself virtually 100 pst. agree with what I said in my post. I would like to extend it to the 100 percent, because there was one point where he took a reservation, but I did not quite get the reason for the reservation. The Right’s proposal to ask the Government to facilitate an increase in the subsidy rate from 85 to 90. I did not understand whether the reason for rejecting this is of a kind of principle, or whether it is just the troubles of money that every council member has at any time, who is behind it. I should have liked that to be elaborated a little bit. So there have been some views during this debate that have little to do with the two proposals, but relate to more general problems related to private schools. There are two questions: I would like to ask the Council of State to confirm that the Government's view is as I indirectly put in the questions: Is it the opinion of the Council of State that the Private Schools Act is a law of rights and must therefore have exactly the budgetary implications described by the representative, Mr Rikvam, as a problem? At my discretion, the definition of a right law is that it should work that way. The second question is: does the Council share the view that Norway's human rights obligations should preferably be met at the level of government and size rather than at the level of local government?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17781	I'll take the questions in the same order as the representative's salary asked them. There's absolutely no fundamental reason why I say no to 90 pst. and yes to 85 pst. Of course, it is a budgetary consequence – 72 million. kr, we've calculated it. The second part is that the percentage that's been shown to work pretty well, and it's been a balanced percentage, which has given parents possibilities. But it's not that it's the eternal truth, so that's why it wasn't a principal distance step. It's clearly a law of rights, based on international conventions. What I distanced myself from in the posts of the representative, Requams, was that it was automatic, that when an application was made that was the basis of one of these two conditions, it was automatically approved. We saw a lot of professional demands, which many people sometimes experience as strict. But it turns out, among other things. When we get some rounds here in the Chamber and we get public debates around it, it is good that we actually have our thoroughness in the proceedings. But when the school is approved, it is clear that then has a right-wing opinion, a right-wing law based on international conventions, and then the money must also come. This arrangement in relation to the budget is not otherwise introduced by this Council of State and this government. I might have to give credit to a pastor, Gudmund Hernes, for introducing the system itself, just based on the foundation that I'm now giving. So I think it's obvious that human rights obligations, international obligations, are a national responsibility for magnification and government, but it's also a good principle to right local government in such matters.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17794	I get the deep hope that it's not eternal truths we're talking about when we're discussing whether the grant is going to be 85 pst. or it has to be 90 pst. I hope we agree on that at least. So to this with international conventions. We are obliged to allow the establishment of private schools in this country. But now we don't have to mix the cards; I feel that there's a lot of people doing it here. There should be a right to establish school, but we have no obligation to grant state subsidies. It must be clear that we have a system in place in this country with state subsidies of 85 p.m., is a very, very good system, and it is significantly better than many other countries have. It has to be clear. So over to two questions to the Council of State. I want to go back to some of the things that I mentioned in my introduction, whether the government budget is going to be governing the ministry in their assessments. That means that there should have been a certain use of discretion in the law. Because when we sit here and discuss the state budget and the majority spend a little more than $1 billion on private schools, it should be easy for the Council of State to say that this is the budget framework laid down by the Storting, so that for 2000 there is so much allocated, and this means that they and those schools cannot receive that state subsidy in 2000. It would be natural and proper budgetary management – otherwise we do not have any kind of budgetary management in this country. I would like the Council of State to comment on that. So finally, I asked for some comments on this with the ACE pedagogy, which he did not have time for. Clearly, the pedagogy and textbooks used in these schools are contrary to Norwegian law on equality. There can be no doubt about it when we look at part of these extracts. Then my question is to the Council of State: Will he reconsider this, consider this teaching material and see if it is contrary to Norwegian law? And if this is contrary to Norwegian law, will he then withdraw the approval of the schools that use this type of pedagogy and this type of textbooks?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17805	There should be the right to establish, but the state is not obliged to give in – in and on a case-by-case basis, but that means that one with open eyes accepts a class distinction. Then one accepts the English system, where those who can afford to send their children to private schools, while parents who sincerely want a pedagogical or religious alternative don't have a chance. That's the totalitarian consequence of Reikvam's claim right now. So it's the budget that has to rule. When there is a law on rights – it applies in many fields – there is a budget that gives the best possible estimate, and it is corrected as it approaches the end of the year. I can show the representative Rikvam quite a number of budget lines within a very large number of budgets where that is the case, and it would be unnatural if that were not the case here too. So to the ACE pedagogy. When the Stortinge in 1984 dealt with private schools, the private schools and teaching materials were excluded from the approval system. And of course we do. But when it comes to curriculums, of course, they have to comply with Norwegian law when it applies to equalization, when it relates to the relationship with human rights, and when it applies to many, many other conditions. We will carry out a type of supervision that ensures that the teaching is done in relation to the approval that is in the curriculum, and that is what will determine whether the approval can be held up or not, not random newspaper essays on random textbooks.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17814	To this last answer from the Council of State, I must say that the Labour Party has never – and I do not think SV – proposed that it should not be possible to have private schools in Norway, or that there should not be any state aid for them. So it can't be that terrible totalitarian. I note that the Council of State is hiding behind the representative's salary, who is hiding behind human rights and thus saying that the Labour Party's proposal is completely hopeless. But I have to say that the human rights say absolutely nothing, and not international conventions either, that the public is obliged to pay for an offer for the few who tear away the foundation and make the offer worse for the majority. If it says somewhere in the conventions, someone has to be so kind as to show me it right away, because I have no faith that it says it. So that's the way of the budget, that we're now going to get an exceedance of this item. The councils have the opportunity to wait, at least he has the opportunity to say to a school that's approved, that there's no money in the box now, but we'll get it into the next state budget, so you can start from the next harvest of. It must also be possible. But what my question is about is that the Council of State says that the parental right has to go ahead of local conditions in almost every case. In Nordland county – I know a little about Northland – the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party and several other parties are part of a coalition that governs the county. And there's a Christian People's Party with us on a political platform where you say you're very skeptical about getting new private schools. Last week at the latest, there was an opinion where the Christian People's Party was involved, saying no to set up a new private school in the county. Does that mean, then, that the party is making mistakes in relation to the party program of the Christian People's Party? In that case, it is certain that the Council of State may contact Lilletun via various party leaders in the party up there and ask them to step up. Does this mean that they are wrong about human rights? It is relatively serious if the Council of State's own party traps are operating in the Nordic countries and violate fundamental human rights by now refusing to establish a new private school in the county.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17830	When it's the county council it's about in the last example of the representative Norvoll, it has to be about further education. The approval system is, as I said, different from the base ball. I cannot stand here and answer to what kind of school there is, what kind of basis it is for approval, etc., whether it is in accordance with the law or not, I actually have to see the case before I do. I have the confidence in my party traps that they generally follow the private sphere that we've been central to fighting through, along with a lot of other parties. Then there's again this statement that some get to tear the foundation away from under the many in public school. Now it is soon the representative Norvoll and the Labour Party that have a documentation obligation in relation to this. So there's more money for municipalities when they create private schools, because it's distributed to the rest of the municipalities. Generally, private schools run cheaper, but that's a bit of a case, as the representative Rikvam said, where one could have filled up classes. So that's not clear. But it's not like this 1.6 pst. may weaken public schooling. This struggle here is much more ideological. And if you make these claims that a tear away the ground under public school, a soon document it rather than just keep saying it. And then the Council of State is hiding behind the representative's salary. I think with the dimensions of the small height this council has, it's hard to hide behind the pay in its health. But the times I'm in agreement with the representative, and that's exactly what I was doing today, I thought it must be quite possible to say it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17842	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17847	The Private School Act opens up private schools for two reasons: religion and alternative pedagogy. We've heard here that it's a law of rights based on international conventions. Yes, it does. But when the conventions have become Norwegian law, this seems to be a bit of a mess. We adopted these conventions as Norwegian law – popularly called the Human Rights Act – in spring, and it was to enter into force immediately. It's later that no one really knows what Article 13 says. It establishes and recognises the right of everyone to education. It further states that primary education should be compulsory and accessible to all free of charge. It also says that parents should be able to choose primary school, i.e. that parents and peers have the freedom to choose schools other than those of the public, provided that the school meets any minimum requirements laid down by the State. It further states that nothing in this Article may or shall not restrict the freedom of individuals or organisations to set up and operate educational institutions, provided that the principles and minimum standards are respected. I think this is fairly clear. And when we hang out in a private school law that is clearly antique in relation to to new, general Norwegian law, and we actually also have a training law that can prove to be contrary to this law on a wide range of points, then it must be timely that the Progress Party promotes a proposal on equal treatment, equality and equality, which is not determined by the parent's wealth and economy, but where the State enters and guarantees these rights that we have heard so much about. But it's going to be completely impossible to go through with just this way of reasoning. We cling to the long-lost principles and our own simple ways of thinking and thinking that Norway has nothing to do with the rest of the world. But it would be strange if a child in Africa, who had his rights under the law of human rights, came to Norway as a refugee and didn't get them. Because we don't practice them the same way in Norway and Africa.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17858	I really didn't mean to say anything in this debate, but the representative Norvoll's violent outburst against private schools got me to speak. The parents' right to choose the assignment for their children is enshrined in international conventions and the private school law, which many have been involved in here today. I can't see the Workers' Party's any war effort against the private schools in the last year as anything but an attack on these failed rights. I wonder what the consequences of the party's new policy are. Does the Workers' Party wish to restrict the freedom to only apply to parents and children in large cities? What kind of school do they really want to get rid of? Norvoll mentioned Montessori school in Tana. Does the Workers' Party really think it's okay that this educational option can be found in the Holmenkol lock, while parents in Finnmark should not have the same opportunity? The left considers that the right parent has the right to choose alternative education for his or her child shall apply irrespective of the place of residence and the income of the parent. The country is not obliged, as many people have been involved, to grant grants to private schools, but the grant schemes we have received in Norway provide a good prerequisite for choosing an alternative to the public school not only to the money-holders. I think it is a little strange that the Socialist Left Party and the Social Democratic Labour Party are against this policy. When Norvoll suggests that the Christian People's Party stands alone in the Government on the policy of private schools, I feel the need to say that the Left believes that the colleges represent a positive and valuable supplement and are a positive challenge for the public school. We stand together with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party to guarantee that these schools will be a natural part of the Norwegian school system in the future. For the Left, there is no contradiction between facilitating a common public school and, at the same time, having liberal access for those who want it, to establish fresh schools which are reasonably non-discriminatory in economic terms with the public school. I can't see what the Workers' Party clearly sees, that the public school is threatened by the emergence of some more private schools.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17871	The representative Marit Tingelstad of the Central Party thought it would be a school revolution if the proposals of the Progress Party were adopted. This, of course, is right. There may also be a need for such a revolution. In today's Norway we have a school where unrest, violence, dissatisfaction, bullying, etc. has become day-to-day. We have a school where you don't have money for real teachers' wages and real construction, and some places you don't have real books. We have a school where there are daily protests, political strikes, parental reactions, etc. The quality is strongly declining. It is confirmed by international surveys and business signals. Yes, there is a need for a school revolution. A revolution is actually the school overmature for. The fact that the Center Party will not participate in such a revolution will be on the account of the Center Party. I will not deny that our proposal will contribute to such a school revolution. By adopting the proposed Progress Party, there will be a situation in which public schools will have to improve and improve quality. And then you're going to get real and equal competitors. For us, there is a legal assessment of this matter in relation to human rights conventions and laws. Ursula Evja has carefully addressed this issue, although it does not seem that the laws and conventions that exist affect the majority in this Chamber. It is also a moral view that the State should treat schools that, after all, do the same. Otherwise, in these matters, the Workers' Party is reaching ever new heights in its criticism of private schools. One should be clear that per cent. Today, private schools are not a dominant factor in Norway. The figures in the election campaign showed that the private schools represent 1.55 pst. In this way, the lowest share in the world. Denmark and England have five–six times as high as private schools. In some countries, among others: I've been told by the Netherlands, in fact, all schools are private, without hearing anything negative about the quality of these countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17884	I'll quote from an article in the local style at home: ‘All children have the right to go to school in their own community. It is in the law." This is how an article starts in the local view. It is also time for budgetary procedure in the municipalities. In my home municipality, it is proposed to set up three primary schools and two secondary schools. Two neighbouring municipalities will set up one primary school each. They can no longer afford to maintain the small primary schools. In three of these branches, parents are already investigating the possibility of starting private schools, Montessori schools. Somewhere the parents are promised to rent the public school building. This means that those children who want to go to public school get a worse offer and have to be bused to other schools, while those who choose private school get to keep school in the community. This means in clear terms that the State can afford operating grants to an increasing number of private schools, while the municipalities cannot afford to maintain the public school. Here, parents with children who want to go to public schools are discriminated against in relation to the convention that everyone has had posts about today, which says that those who want a private school offer are entitled to do so. Here the others do not get what they want. I would like to ask the Council of State what he thinks of such a development in primary school. Do not students who choose public schools have the same demand for a nearby offer as those who choose a private school?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17898	I have not had the opportunity to follow the committee's examination of the proposal, but the debate this evening has puzzled me, and then I am basing myself on the fact that the public school is under greater pressure than ever. As far as I have registered, this concerns about all the political parties in Norway, and especially the government parties. The difficulties in which the public school has ended are complex. We can talk about resource problems, educational difficulties and structural decay, but also about the fact that a growing number of private schools and alternative education facilities are being established. The representative's salary claimed that if all private schools were closed tomorrow, the public school would not get better for that reason. But the argument can be reversed. Is public school strengthened by the increasingly rapid establishment of private school facilities? Do we have evidence that a growing private school offer is a blessing to a public school, or is it such that it gradually weakens public school? I am undoubtedly lucky to be here tonight, and there are a number of questions I could have thought of asking the Council of State. When the Council of State is so concerned with the public school as he says he is, where does he feel that the balance between the number of private schools and a strong public school lies? How much pressure on the Community school will it put on before the Council of State puts the brakes on? He doesn't think that a still strong increase in the number of private schools in any way, and not even indirectly, will affect the public school negatively? Nor can he think of what he said tonight as a moment, namely, that private schools are often run better and cheaper than public schools? If I have not misunderstood anything here, I think exactly this is a very serious and alarming signal from the Council of State to send.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17907	It's late, and I think we're getting done. I'm just going to include the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17912	Tomas Norvoll has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17915	As we approach the end of this debate, I wondered whether some representatives have seen errors in the calendar and started to discuss the budget for next year in the middle of a debate on a Document No. Eight proposals that deal with something completely different. You can say a lot of things about the pressure in Norwegian school today, but that pressure doesn't come from private schools at least. And it's simply pointless to present it this way when, over a decade, we've had an increase in the number of students going to private schools, at 0.3 percentage points – from 1.3 pst. to 1.6 pst. The problems of today’s Norwegian public school are due to the overwhelming number of students attending private schools. Nor is it particularly useful to use the fact that a number of local authorities decide, for various reasons, to close out cross-border schools, as an argument against setting up private schools. It cannot make the situation more difficult for those children who have to take a bus to another public school, whether there is an offer in the community to which they can say no or to which they can agree. There could be no wrong against someone. When I asked for the floor now, it was to give a little comment to the representative Norvoll, who claimed that I was hiding behind human rights. It's actually a use of human rights that I've never been able to come up with. On the other hand, I believe that human rights should be taken seriously, and especially after this assembly has decided that they should be incorporated into Norwegian law. Then, if not before, you should take them seriously. And it's simply not right as it's said with great force in this debate, too, that human rights do not oblige us to do anything economic when it comes to protecting parental rights – it's simply wrong, of course they do. But they don't oblige us to do it exactly through a state grant law. You can, for example: do so in a similar way as in the case of the law of trudoms and ymist others, namely that those who are not members of the Norwegian Church are paid the same amount as they would have received through the church grant if they were members of the Church, and that this is transferred to their religious community. You can do it that way. But it doesn't make sense to claim that human rights only oblige us to make an in-depth statement that setting up private schools is allowed if you are so sought-after that in addition to paying taxes and thus financing the public school, you can also pay 100 pst. the costs of exercising the parental right which forms part of the human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17928	I said I was sorry to finish the debate, but I got some direct questions, and in respect of the representatives, I thought I had to answer. First to the representative Ursula Evje: Of course, I respect the fact that the Progress Party has presented the proposal that they have made here today, and have fought for it, but I disagree with the interpretation that they make of both international conventions and the incorporation into Norwegian law. Most countries in Europe have a system in relation to private schools where one does not get the consequence that the representative Evje here today claims is the only right consequence. I think that the promise, as it is designed, takes good account of these conventions and the incorporation that has taken place in Norwegian law. So to the representative Moland, who asks not those who want a public school, also have rights. Of course they have. But it's not that they don't want to be entitled to school, but they'll have to have something longer. We can say we're sorry about that, but private spherelova was not created primarily to correct municipal decisions in relation to a closure in the crown. But if there are parents who want to start something that is an alternative to what comes within the law, it's not possible to examine hearts and kidneys in relation to it. A further challenge for local politicians around is to maintain a well-decentralised system. Then Folkvord asks if there is any balance point, and whether it is the way that the private schools have brought the public something – something like that, he asked. Yeah, that's exactly what I mean. I mean that the Steiner bullets and Montessori bullets in Norway have introduced the pedagogy in the public school very positively. I mean, many of the good things in the new curriculum are largely inspired by the thinking of the Steinerskule-pedagogics. In addition, even if one draws out many negative things – there are few negative things in the public school, in my view – it is still such that it costs less to start, establish and run private schools. That's what I wanted to point out. And it can't possibly defuse the public school. For this reason, I would like to say one more time: the fact that private schools are gradually established, overall leads to more money for the municipalities and county councils – that is the add-on system. Therefore, these claims become meaningless – and we need even more time to debate them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17945	We're actually back to the exact same thing that I started my career with in this house, a message about parental participation in primary school. Everyone said yes to parental assistance, but none other than the Advancement Party would give parents real influence over the situation of their own children. It is said that we are doing so well in Norway. Then I sent a small question to Stortinget's investigation department about looking at private schools in Norway in relation to Denmark and Sweden. And think about the answer I got: in Sweden they get 100 pst. support – in a law of its own, together with public schools – there is actually no difference. So there are the human rights. In Denmark, too, it is significantly better than in Norway. In my answer, it says that all countries have rules for private schools, and in all three countries, the condition for the grant is that the school is approved by the government. It is only in Sweden that this has been significantly more liberalised. But what we come back to when we discuss this matter is something that the Council itself has written in a letter of 28 October. He determines that 100 pst. in relation to today's 85 pst. That means 190 million. SEK in expenditure in 2000. And if 65 pst, as he himself claimed in a debate in the NRK, was right, that would mean an extra cost of 520 million. kr. That's what it boils down to. It has nothing to do with anything but a lack of money, and a lack of willingness to prioritize anything else. I regret that those who are going to continue our welfare society when we are no longer able to do so, namely, our children, are not worth this money, and that their parents are not considered to be responsible enough to make decisions on behalf of their children. And these parents -- I'm wondering -- have just gone through the same public school that I and everyone else here have done. So somewhere along the way we must have gone completely wild in a jungle of good intentions and opinions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17957	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1412]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17971	When it comes to the proposed changes to the 1999 state budget, I will only make a few brief comments on the individual areas in this matter. The government's proposal for changes is in many ways a consequence of the level of activity of the individual regions, so, of course, adjustments are natural in the course of a whole calendar year. But in one area, the majority find it right to use the money in a different area than the one proposed by the Government. It applies to the net means of sale of M/S ‘Seaway’. This amount, which is $3.4 million in total. kr, a multiple will be used for the design tools for the co-location of the hay spheres in Akershus, Bergen and Bodø. The Committee's minority, the members of the Right, believes that this promise should also apply to the Hajskoles of Eastfold, Stavanger and Nesna in addition to the three that the plural advocates. I shall not justify this closer now, because I expect that this will come back tomorrow when the Storting will debate the budget for next year. I would just like to refer to the Government's own priorities when it comes to construction and the Committee's comments in the budget setting. Then I will say a few words about the budget line that deals with the provision of education for foreign-language elephants. The Committee understands that it may be difficult to budget this item more precisely. This is what all experience in the last few years shows. This is because the number of children in reception varies widely from year to year. When it comes to the government's contribution to this teaching, it's probably a bigger case, as it might seem that there's a big difference between what the government transfers from the funds and what is the real cost to the municipalities. That is why there is a joint committee that suggests that the Government should set up a partisan-set selection to assess this situation and present a separate case for the Spring 2000. In addition, the Committee has no comments except as the Committee generally points to introductory remarks on budgetary management.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17988	I will, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, take up the minority proposal set out in the vote, and also refer to the comments written there. Moreover, I would just like to say that the majority of the Grand Duchy today does not consider that there is any reason to grant grants for part-time fires and diving training. It's a priority that we would prefer in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e17995	The representative of Lyngstad has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e18005	The size of the case goes to voting on case No. 5 and 6. Before we start voting, John I. Alvheim would like to make an explanation of vote – one might say – on case no. 1 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e18010	It'll almost be a confession. I have led my group to vote wrong under the framework area 15 of the Social and Health Budget. From VII even to XV, I led the group to vote against. We had to vote in favour of these Roman numerals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e18015	The President will state that there will be no change in the Minutes, but there will be a footnote where this is explained. Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e18023	During the debate, Mr Norvoll has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that if the establishment of private schools leads to the reduction of public school provision or to a marked deterioration in quality, government grants to private schools shall not be granted.’ An alternative is to vote between the nomination and the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Committee had ceased: Document No 8:65 [[1998 - 1999]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e18046	During the debate Arne Lyngstad has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap. 232 item 45 Larger equipment purchases and maintenance, can be transferred, increased by NOK 3 400000 from NOK 4 626000000 to NOK 8 026000’» We vote first on the proposal and then on the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e20499	It's voted first over the cape. 281 entry 30 under you. Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e20509	The remainder of the motion for a resolution is then put to the vote. This applies to the other headings under Chapter. 281 and the other chapters and items under I and II, III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-14-2.ana.ud857e20524	There is no record.
